history: The paradoxes of Zeno of Elea depend in large part on the uncertain interpretation of zero.
history: In Lombardy there was an outbreak of "suffocating catarrh" that could quickly become fatal.
history: NASA built a 10000-processor Linux computer (it is actually a 10,240-processor) called Columbia.
history: The Russian and Greek consuls and the French consulate's staff had taken refuge in Abd al-Qadir's residence.
history: "A Revolutionary Bromance: Masculinity, Performance, and Religion in Diplomacy".
history: The cardinal, also known as Monseigneur le Ledat, made his final testimony and recited Sacraments around 22 May before he died on the 25th.
history: The establishment of Ottoman military aviation dates back to between June 1909 and July 1911.
history: In 1887, Bismarck set up the Reinsurance Treaty, a secret agreement between Germany and Russia to remain neutral if either were attacked by France or Austria-Hungary.
history: Subsequently, it became rendered as Lwat.
history: who has gathered [around him] miscreants in the Druze community and done harm and mischief in the sanjak of Safad".
history: It is dedicated to the Spanish knight Fra Don Ernaldo Mox, and it was published in Catania in 1677.
history: In 1913, the Romanian Army, while invading Bulgaria during the Second Balkan War, suffered a cholera outbreak that provoked 1,600 deaths.
history: In this case, the Ottomans sent armies to aid its easternmost vassal and territory, the Sultanate of Aceh in Southeast Asia.
history: The American vice-consul and Dutch consul narrowly escaped the mobs.
history: Freedom and Accord partisans would attempt several plots against the Unionist government until the outbreak of World War I.
history: "Abortion and Reproductive Health: Making International Law More Responsive to Women's Needs".
history: Because of God's promise to Abraham regarding his destiny, God revealed plans to assess what these cities have done and confer judgment on them.
history: The Beirut-Damascus highway was the dividing line between the two districts.
history: A small number of Libyans still live in the desert as their families have done for centuries.
history: Osman's son, Orhan, captured the northwestern Anatolian city of Bursa in 1326, making it the new capital and supplanting Byzantine control in the region.
history: The Kingdom of Serbia and its dynasty, as a "minor Entente nation" and the country with the most casualties per capita, became the backbone of a new multinational state, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, later renamed Yugoslavia.
history: After this event, Abraham went to Beersheba.
history: With the military faltering and with widespread loss of confidence in Wilhelm II, Germany moved towards surrender.
history: Close to battlefields, those buried in improvised burial grounds were gradually moved to formal graveyards under the care of organisations such as the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, the American Battle Monuments Commission, the German War Graves Commission, and Le Souvenir français.
history: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
history: Four galleys of the Grand Duchy of Tuscany or the Order of Saint Stephen had captured two vessels from Alexandria, and took their cargo and about 150 Turkish captives with them to Malta.
history: The elections were marred by violence and low turnout, with voting stations closed in some areas.
history: The 1585–1586 events marked a turning point in the history of Mount Lebanon and the Levant in general under Ottoman rule.
history: The U-boat threat lessened in 1917, when merchant ships began travelling in convoys, escorted by destroyers.
history: Capturing high ground has been the main tactic in innumerable battles.
history: After the conquest, Serbia was divided between Austro-Hungary and Bulgaria.
history: 1657)
April 14 – King Philip III of Spain (d.
history: The German Army to the south then conducted Operations Blücher and Yorck, pushing broadly towards Paris.
history: There are about 290,000 Ibadis in the M'zab Valley in the region of Ghardaia.
history: In 1911, of the 654 wholesale companies in Istanbul, 528 were owned by ethnic Greeks.
history: That day, the Druze force split into two main contingents, with one attacking the Christian village of Aya and the other storming Rashaya.
history: Modern Standard Arabic and Berber are the official languages.
history: The presence of null values leads to three-valued logic.
history: Several Ugaritic epithets of Hauron were also found to be identical to the Arabic designation for the Devil, Iblis in Islam.
history: In contrast, the areas of sub-Saharan Africa were known as Aethiopia.
history: There was a severe famine in the land of Canaan, so that Abram, Lot, and their households traveled to Egypt.
history: Serbia's victory against Austria-Hungary in the 1914 invasion has been called one of the major upset victories of the twentieth century.
history: French losses from 1831 to 1851 were 92,329 dead in the hospital and only 3,336 killed in action.
history: Shurba is a red tomato sauce-based soup, usually served with small grains of pasta.
history: The Druze victory at Zahle was a major morale boost for their forces since the fall of Zahle effectively symbolized their total victory over the Christians of Mount Lebanon, which they then controlled indisputably.
history: Hoping to thwart the nascent party's efforts to grow its ranks and better organize itself, the CUP asked Sultan Mehmed V to dissolve the Chamber and announced its call for early general elections in January 1912.
history: The Libyan script that was used in Libya was mostly a funerary script.
history: This was achieved without borrowing any foreign loans, keeping Libya debt-free.
history: An agreement to form a national unity government was signed on 17 December 2015.
history: It struggled with internal dissent, especially the Arab Revolt, and engaged in genocide against Armenians, Assyrians, and Greeks.
history: The final assault on the Hindenburg Line began with the Meuse-Argonne offensive, launched by American and French troops on 26 September.
history: By the third century BC, two major Berber kingdoms existed: the Masaesyli (from the Moulouya River in eastern Morocco to the Rhummel in Algeria) and the Massyli (in extreme eastern Algeria and western Tunisia).
history: S2CID 159671329.
history: 1545)
September – Pierre Lescot, French architect (b.
history: The first major offensive the Turks undertook in World War I was an unsuccessful attempt to drive the Russians from the portion of Western Armenia they had taken in the Russo-Turkish War of 1877.
history: The first recorded flu outbreak in the New World had afflicted the Isle of Santo Domingo (Now Haiti and the Dominican Republic) in 1493.
history: 1,544,804,416 = 393042 = 11563 = 346
1,564,031,349 = 695
1,597,463,007 : Decimal representation of 0x5f3759df
1,606,879,040 : Dowling number
1,626,557,542 : Is "QWERTY" in base 36.
history: Genesis 1 tells of God's creation of the world and its creatures, including the Hebrew word adam, meaning humankind.
history: The vast mountain ranges of Aures and Nememcha occupy the entire northeastern Algeria and are delineated by the Tunisian border.
history: Beyond its use as the name of the first man, the Hebrew word adam is also used in the Bible as a pronoun, individually as "a human" and in a collective sense as "humankind".
history: Major rulers and petty monarchs during the times of the Barbary states' plundering parties included the sultan of Morocco, the dey of Algiers, bey of Tunis, and pasha of Tripoli, respectively.
history: ISBN 1-86064-856-8.
history: In the Islamic traditions (ahadith), Adam is given the name Adam-aI-Safi (Arabic: آدم ألصافي, lit.
history: The German high command responded by despatching troops to hold the line, but these forces were too weak to re-establish a front.
history: There are four main ingredients of traditional Libyan food: olives (and olive oil), dates, grains and milk.
history: Different mathematical constructions of the natural numbers represent 1 in various ways.
history: Malek Bennabi and Frantz Fanon are noted for their thoughts on decolonisation; Augustine of Hippo was born in Tagaste (modern-day Souk Ahras); and Ibn Khaldun, though born in Tunis, wrote the Muqaddima while staying in Algeria.
history: Retrieved 2019-12-10.
history: A settler uprising in 1898 led to greater autonomy for the colonial administration in Algiers.
history: 1621)
August 10 – Matteo Rosselli, Italian painter (d.
history: "Tripoli and Tripolitania: Conflict and Cohesion during the Period of the Barbary Corsairs (1551-1850)".
history: 1654)
March 18 – Adam Elsheimer, German artist working in Rome, who died at only thirty-two (d.
history: Nearby Beit ed-Dine and its countryside was also sacked.
history: The local Druze were angry at the Christians for complaining to the authorities, which led to the arrests, and launched an attack on Dahr al-Ahmar.
history: The Italian Socialist Party purged itself of pro-war nationalist members, including Mussolini.
history: in Qusantina (Constantine in French), an Ottoman district subject to the Algiers regency since 1525 (had its own Beys since 1567), the last incumbent, Ahmed Bey ben Mohamed Chérif (b.
history: Slang words for zero include "zip", "zilch", "nada", and "scratch".
history: The kingdom was noted for its close association with the West, while it steered a conservative course at home.
history: German medical historian Justus Hecker writes that the young population of Padua had been reeling from a dual outbreak of measles and smallpox since the spring when a new illness, featuring extreme cough and headache, began to afflict the citizens in late summer.
history: The great powers sought to re-assert control through the 1913 Treaty of London, which had created an independent Albania while enlarging the territories of Bulgaria, Serbia, Montenegro and Greece.
history: Since the 2011 breakup of Sudan, and the creation of South Sudan, Algeria has been the largest country in Africa.
history: Further consideration of the question was delegated to the Allied Council of Foreign Ministers, which included a French representative; although all council members initially favored some form of trusteeship, no formula could be devised for disposing of Libya.
history: In Genesis 2, God forms "Adam", this time meaning a single male human, out of "the dust of the ground" and "breathed into his nostrils the breath of life".
history: Between 1915 and 1917, the Italian commander, Luigi Cadorna, undertook a series of frontal assaults along the Isonzo, which made little progress and cost many lives; by the end of the war, Italian combat deaths totalled around 548,000.
history: Originally in British English, the word "trillion" referred to million million millions (while "billion" referred to million millions, which is equal to trillion in American English); however, to many people, the word refers to one thousand billion (1,000,000,000,000) in the present day.
history: The latter was persuaded not to renew the Reinsurance Treaty by his new Chancellor, Leo von Caprivi.
history: Defence Minister Hervé Morin stated that "It's time for our country to be at peace with itself, at peace thanks to a system of compensation and reparations", when presenting the draft law on the payouts.
history: Some cases later appeared in the urban area around the Grand Harbour: in Valletta, Birgu, Senglea and Bormla.
history: Let us then take up arms!
history: In Milan, in May 1917, Bolshevik revolutionaries organised and engaged in rioting calling for an end to the war, and managed to close down factories and stop public transportation.
history: An intelligent and able man, Ahmed greatly expanded his city's economy, particularly through the employment of corsairs on crucial Mediterranean shipping routes.
history: He had experienced the violence himself as he was attacked by an angry mob.
history: In the Aures, people played several games such as El Kherba or El Khergueba (chess variant).
history: The nine Indian figures are: 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1.
history: In 1944, Idris returned from exile in Cairo but declined to resume permanent residence in Cyrenaica until the removal of some aspects of foreign control in 1947.
history: The dispute enabled Maronite bishop Tobia Aoun to mobilise his Beirut-based central committee to intervene in the matter.
history: Misoprostol is approved for post-abortion care and postpartum hemorrhage, but not for abortion.
history: In the Battle of Ankara in 1402, Timur defeated Ottoman forces and took Sultan Bayezid I as prisoner, throwing the empire into disorder.
history: The tit-for-tat killings continued, rendering most of the roads of Mount Lebanon unsafe for travellers.
history: ×
              (
              16
              +
              1
              )
              !
history: The galleys arrived in Malta on 7 May 1592.
history: Berber has been recognised as a "national language" by the constitutional amendment of 8 May 2002.
history: 8,589,934,592 = 20483 = 811 = 233
8,589,935,681 : Leyland prime using 2 and 33 (233 + 332)
8,622,571,758 : number of secondary structures of RNA molecules with 29 nucleotides
8,804,293,473 : Leyland number using 8 and 11 (811 + 118)
8,888,888,888 : repdigit
history: This period ended when Gelimer deposed his cousin Hilderic and seized power.
history: This network has been complemented by the East-West Highway, a major infrastructure project completed in 2023.
history: In Askin, Kelly Dawn; Koenig, Dorean (eds.).
history: Not only were they able to free the captives, Abram's unit chased and slaughtered the Elamite King Chedorlaomer at Hobah, just north of Damascus.
history: "In Memoriam: Abdul-Karim Rafeq, 1931–2024" (PDF).
history: A number of TV stations air various styles of traditional Libyan music.
history: In 1793, Turkish officer Ali Pasha deposed Hamet Karamanli and briefly restored Tripolitania to Ottoman rule.
history: By October 1860, Deir al-Qamar's population which had been roughly 10,000 before the conflict, had been reduced to 400.
history: Other rabbis explained the same verse as meaning that Adam was created with two faces, male and female, or as a single androgynos being, male and female joined back to back, but God saw that this made walking and conversing difficult, and so split them apart.
history: The tendency for real-world numbers to grow exponentially or logarithmically biases the distribution towards smaller leading digits, with 1 occurring approximately 30% of the time.
history: By the end of 1914, the opposing forces confronted each other along an uninterrupted line of entrenched positions from the Channel to the Swiss border.
history: The Great Manmade River was also built to allow free access to fresh water across large parts of the country.
history: In response, the Benghazi-based Government of National Stability closed down all oil fields, facilities, and terminals in protest.
history: Germany launched Operation Georgette against the northern English Channel ports.
history: 1,026,753,849 = 320432, the smallest pandigital square in base 10.
history: After the 18th century, the Ottoman Empire was shrinking, as Russia put on heavy pressure and expanded to its south; Egypt became effectively independent in 1805, and the British later took it over, along with Cyprus.
history: This strategic initiative is aimed at securing long-term economic stability and prosperity for Libya by diversifying its economic foundation.
history: Hundreds of Druze rebels were slain, thousands of muskets were confiscated and large sums of money were collected as tax arrears by Ibrahim Pasha.
history: In 778, Abdel Rahman Ibn Rustam established a Kharijite emirate at Tahert in central Algeria known as the Rustamid imamate, marking the first independent Muslim state in the Maghrib.
history: The invention of military submarines, during World War I, brought naval warfare to both above and below the surface.
history: There are an estimated 40,000 Roman Catholics in Libya who are served by two bishops, one in Tripoli (serving the Italian community) and one in Benghazi (serving the Maltese community).
history: But when he desired to reach the eighth heaven, he was unable to because of the corruption mixed with his light.
history: Theatres were a major gathering and social hub for people during this period.
history: In language,
the Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese phrase live for ten thousand years was used to bless emperors in East Asia.
history: Ten Thousand Lovers by Edeet Ravel ISBN 0-06-056562-4.
history: In 1563, London experienced its worst episode of plague during the sixteenth century.
history: The indigenous Senusiyya (or Sanusi) Movement, led by Islamic cleric Muhammad ibn Ali al-Sanusi, called on the countryside to resist Ottoman rule.
history: Romania took control of Bessarabia in April 1918.
history: These measures was enforced with harsh penalties including flogging and death.
history: No one supported him except his nephew Lot and "one or two other individuals of no consequence".
history: The Evolution of Adam: What the Bible Does and Doesn't Say about Human Origins.
history: All Middle Iranian languages retain forms derived from baga- in the sense "god": Middle Persian bay (plur.
history: It is suspected that the latter had handled refuse material from the 1592–1593 epidemic which might have been infected, causing the 1623 outbreak.
history: Sometimes in desert warfare, there is no nearby town name to use; map coordinates gave the name to the Battle of 73 Easting in the First Gulf War.
history: Parts of Libya were variously ruled by Carthaginians, Numidians, Persians, and Greeks before the entire region became a part of the Roman Empire.
history: The court reached a verdict which sentenced the organizers of the massacres, Talat, Enver, Cemal and others to death.
history: In many cases, Christians and Jews gained protection from European consuls and citizenship, meaning they were protected from Ottoman law and not subject to the same economic regulations as their Muslim counterparts.
history: Archiv Orientální.
history: The regime of punishment held on for weeks after the riots, until late August.
history: Ancient Libya is not to be confused with the modern country of Libya, which represents the eastern part of the territory at the time.
history: During 2010, when oil averaged at $80 a barrel, oil production accounted for 54% of GDP.
history: School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London.
history: In June 2019, forces allied to Libya's UN-recognised Government of National Accord successfully captured Gharyan, a strategic town where military commander Khalifa Haftar and his fighters were based.
history: From that day onward, the well was called Beer-lahai-roi, ("The well of him that liveth and seeth me": KJV margin), located between Kadesh and Bered.
history: 20 (S1) 192.
history: The dynasty was defeated by the Fatimids in 909, prompting the Ibadis to settle in the M'zab region.
history: The first cases of plague began to appear in June.
history: From 5–7 November 1945, more than 140 Jews (including 36 children) were killed and hundreds injured in a pogrom in Tripoli.
history: It was also used by the Uyghurs.
history: In the Terrgurt valley, Cowper says: "There had been originally no less than eighteen or twenty megalithic trilithons, in a line, each with its massive altar placed before it".
history: By early November, the Allies had signed armistices with the Ottomans and with Austria-Hungary, leaving Germany isolated.
history: In the introduction to his 15th-century translation of the Golden Legend's account of Abraham, William Caxton noted that this patriarch's life was read in church on Quinquagesima Sunday.
history: (November 2012).
history: Abu-Husayn, Abdul-Rahim (new ed.) (2025).
history: Indiana University Bloomington Archived 5 June 2015 at the Wayback Machine
New York University Archived 5 April 2015 at the Wayback Machine
University of Alberta (archived 2014)
California State Library, California History Room.
history: Adam is the name given in Genesis 1–5 to the first human.
history: Later that year, the Bolsheviks seized power in Russia in the October Revolution; Soviet Russia signed an armistice with the Central Powers in December, followed by a separate peace in March 1918.
history: Compositionally, it is organised around rhythmic units called usul, which are somewhat similar to metre in Western music, and melodic units called makam, which bear some resemblance to Western musical modes.
history: In the entire Hebrew Bible, Adam appears only in chapters 1–5 of the Book of Genesis, with the exception of a mention at the beginning of the Books of Chronicles where, as in Genesis, he heads the list of Israel's ancestors.
history: During World War II, Libya was an area of warfare in the North African Campaign.
history: 1012 months (about 83 billion years) ago, the universe did not exist.
history: Ibrahim Pasha arrived in Damascus with a tribute caravan from Egypt and a large military escort in June.
history: As we see from this chart the number of deaths seemingly lower the further away from the sea they are.
history: Mishaqah wrote that the extent of the celebrations would lead one to believe that "the [Ottoman] Empire conquered Russia".
history: The national team almost won the 1982 AFCON; they lost to Ghana on penalties 7–6.
history: The Triple Entente was completed by the 1907 Anglo-Russian Convention.
history: The military expenditure was 4.3% of the gross domestic product (GDP) in 2012.
history: Medical historian Charles-Jacques Saillant described this influenza as especially fatal to those who were treated with bleeding and very dangerous to children.
history: That changed in 1563 when plague suddenly erupted in Derby, Leicester, and London with such virulence that sickness spread to English troops garrisoned at Havre, weakening them and causing a surrender to French forces.
history: One by one the Porte lost nominal authority.
history: The largest concentration of Algerian migrants outside Algeria is in France, which has reportedly over 1.7 million Algerians of up to the second generation.
history: This Greek root was used in early versions of the metric system in the form of the decimal prefix myria-.
history: In the 1580s, the rulers of Fezzan gave their allegiance to the sultan, and although Ottoman authority was absent in Cyrenaica, a bey was stationed in Benghazi late in the next century to act as agent of the government in Tripoli.
history: David Andelman notes "Refusing to pay doesn't make an agreement null and void.
history: Military action by the Ottoman governors of Damascus in the 1570s failed to disarm the chiefs and the general population or collect tax arrears, which had been building up from the 1560s.
history: The resumption of production was made possible due to the quick return of major Western companies, like TotalEnergies, Eni, Repsol, Wintershall and Occidental.
history: Algerian Arabic (Darja) is the language used by the majority of the population.
history: The country claims 32,000 square kilometres of southeastern Algeria, south of the Libyan town of Ghat.
history: A formal state of war between the two sides persisted for another seven months, until the signing of the Treaty of Versailles with Germany on 28 June 1919.
history: Some 400 sheltered in the home of Sa'id Jumblatt's sister Nayifa, due to her concerns that the gathering of so many Christians at government house would put so many of their lives in danger.
history: Romania re-entered the war on 10 November 1918, on the side of the Allies and the Treaty of Bucharest was formally annulled by the Armistice of 11 November 1918.
history: Ahmad Pasha, the governor of Damascus, assigned more guards to the Christian quarter in early June and prohibited weapons sales to the Druze and Christian belligerents in Mount Lebanon.
history: The Druze followed up on their victory at Rashaya by raiding villages in the central Beqaa Valley and the vicinity of Baalbek together with Shia Muslim peasants and irregulars, guided by the Harfush clan.
history: "The sweat" was one name used to describe the usually deadly, flu-like fevers and "agues"  plaguing the English countryside from 1557 to 1558, despite no reliable records of sweating sickness after 1551.
history: Besides al-Hawasili's failed attempt, no Ottoman military or political official attempted a significant intervention in the first few days of the riots.
history: Khazen lands were pillaged and homes burned.
history: South of the Tell Atlas is a steppe landscape ending with the Saharan Atlas; farther south, there is the Sahara desert.
history: Arabs account for 92% of the population, while Berbers account for 5%, though other estimates put this percentage at 10%, representing approximately 600,000 people.
history: French colonization faced continuous Algerian resistance, from Emir Abdelkader's campaigns and the Mokrani Revolt to the rise of nationalist movements in the 20th century.
history: Other rumors circulating among the Muslim community regarded alleged Christian attacks on mosques.
history: Tensions sometimes emerged between the Turkish janissary elite, local populations, and the Kouloughlis (people of mixed Turkish and Algerian ancestry), leading to revolts and political instability.
history: In 2008, new programmes at the elementary appeared, therefore the compulsory schooling does not start at the age of six anymore, but at the age of five.
history: According to an account by a Christian survivor, "the men were slaughtered in the embrace of their wives and the children at the breasts of their mothers".
history: In 1949 he enrolled in the University of Damascus, then called the 'Syrian University' where he became student of the university's history department.
history: The Australian prime minister, Billy Hughes, wrote to the British prime minister, David Lloyd George, "You have assured us that you cannot get better terms.
history: Among the earliest known records of a numeral system, is the Sumerian decimal-sexagesimal system on clay tablets dating from the first half of the third millennium BCE.
history: A parliament was formed, with representatives chosen from the provinces.
history: Lloyd George's War Cabinet considered the German offer to be a ploy to create divisions among the Allies.
history: Geynes, known for invoking Galen and being citationed by the government for it, died on 23 July from plague.
history: The expedition represented the first attempt to impose direct government authority in the Chouf.
history: Abu-Husayn, Abdul-Rahim (November 1992).
history: Likewise, the Iberians passed through newly-Christianised Latin America and had sent expeditions that traversed the Pacific to Christianise the formerly Muslim Philippines and use it as a base to attack the Muslims in the Far East.
history: Time: A million seconds, 1 megasecond, is 11.57 days.
history: The regency was founded in 1516 by the corsair brothers Aruj Barbarossa and Hayreddin Barbarossa, who seized Algiers with local support against Spanish expansion and placed the territory under the protection of the Ottoman Empire.
history: This industry appears to have spread throughout the coastal regions of the Maghreb between 15,000 and 10,000 BC.
history: Members of Young Turks movement who had once gone underground now established their parties.
history: On 30 October, the Ottoman Empire capitulated, and signed the Armistice of Mudros.
history: In 1523–1524 dozens of Druze villages were burned in the Chouf area and hundreds of Druze were killed or captured by the governor Khurram Pasha, after which a period of peace ensued.
history: Historically, Libya hosted millions of low- and high-skilled Egyptian migrants, in particular.
history: The cause of these deaths was still not identified when another member of the family, 7-year-old Teresa, died from similar symptoms on 13 January.
history: At the advice of Uthman Bey, a large part of Hasbaya's Christian community took refuge in Hasbaya's government house, along with several Shihabi family members, and surrendered their weapons, which numbered around 500 guns.
history: The Druze assault was well-planned according to accounts of the battle, with some of their forces attacking Zahle's well-defended eastern, southern and western sides, while Imad's contingent launched a surprise attack against the town from the north.
history: Violent actions against ethnic Serbs were also organised outside Sarajevo, in other cities in Austro-Hungarian-controlled Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia.
history: One billion years may be called an eon in astronomy or geology.
history: For this reason, the numerals came to be known in Europe as "Arabic numerals".
history: The next book authored by Rafeq was the widely read Bilad al-Sham wa-Misr min al-fath al-ʿuthmani ila hamlat Nabulyun Bunabart, 1516–1798 [Bilad al-Sham and Egypt from the Ottoman Conquest to Napoleon Bonaparte's Expedition, 1516–1798] published in 1968.
history: Its capital and largest city is Algiers.
history: The authorities arrested a suspect and tried him immediately, but by then mobs were forming throughout the city, whose population had doubled due to the influx of Christian refugees.
history: These sculpted scenes are on the outside of a marble Early Christian sarcophagus used for the burial of Junius Bassus.
history: A further distinction is made in falsification-hindering typeface as used on German car number plates by slitting open the digit 0 on the upper right side.
history: {\displaystyle C(16)={\frac {\binom {2\times 16}{16}}{16+1}}={\frac {(2\times 16)!}{16!\times (16+1)!}}}
history: Between 90,000 and 165,000 Sahrawis from Western Sahara live in the Sahrawi refugee camps, in the western Algerian Sahara desert.
history: In the Hellenistic period, the native Berbers were known collectively as Libyans to the Greco-Roman world, a Greek term for the inhabitants of the Maghreb, they identified the Massylii, the Masaessyli, the Gaetuli, the Phareusiens and the Mauri.
history: Surviving Babylonian documents date mostly from Old Babylonian (c.
history: Following the 2012 elections, Freedom House improved Libya's rating from Not Free to Partly Free and considered the country an electoral democracy.
history: At several points in the conflict, the situation in Algeria became a point of international concern, most notably during the crisis surrounding Air France Flight 8969, a hijacking perpetrated by the Armed Islamic Group.
history: Ludendorff drew up plans (Operation Michael) for the 1918 offensive on the Western Front.
history: "Abdul-Karim Rafeq, Historian of Syria: Some Personal Observations".
history: The empire emerged from a beylik, or principality, founded in northwestern Anatolia in c.
history: To address the rivalry between Cyrenaica and Tripolitania, Benghazi and Tripoli alternated as the capital every two years.
history: In December 2017, the Permanent Mission of Libya to the United Nations informed the UN that the country's official name was henceforth the "State of Libya"; "Libya" remained the official short form, and the country continued to be listed under "L" in alphabetical lists.
history: The idea of original sin is not found in Judaism nor in Islam, and was introduced into Christianity by the Apostle Paul, drawing on currents in Hellenistic Jewish thought which held that Adam's sin had introduced death and sin into the world.
history: Mustafa al-Ahmar's death in 1823 also led to delays.
history: 1496)
Michael Kantakouzenos Şeytanoğlu, Ottoman Greek magnate (b.
history: At its peak, the kingdom extended from Tlemcen to Tripoli.
history: A nationalist opposition arose in the Turkish national movement.
history: However, natural and environmental conditions limit Libya's agricultural production potential.
history: During the Battle of Megiddo, the first reliably documented battle in the fifteenth century BC, both armies were organised and disciplined; during the many wars of the Roman Empire, barbarians continued to use mob tactics.
history: president Ronald Reagan intended to kill Gaddafi failed in 1986.
history: Homo sapiens were living as 'hunter-gatherers' 1012 seconds ago.
history: Despite military reforms which reconstituted the Ottoman Modern Army, the Empire lost its North African territories and the Dodecanese in the Italo-Turkish War (1911) and almost all of its European territories in the Balkan Wars (1912–1913).
history: The Economic History Review.
history: Thus there are 1 million A-sized cubes in C; and 1,000,000,000 A-sized cubes in D.
history: The clash was indecisive, though the Germans inflicted more damage than they received; thereafter the bulk of the German High Seas Fleet was confined to port.
history: Libya is organized as a unitary state, contrary to federations based on federalism.
history: Land of 10000 Trails or 10000trails.com is an organization created in 1999 by the TN/KY Lakes Area Coalition and based in West Tennessee and West Kentucky to promote tourism by developing trails in the region.
history: In November 2011, the ISO 3166-1 was altered to reflect the new country name "Libya" in English, "Libye (la)" in French.
history: 1 is the value of Legendre's constant, introduced in 1808 by Adrien-Marie Legendre to express the asymptotic behavior of the prime-counting function.
history: The founding of the Aviation School quickened advancement in the military aviation programme, increased the number of enlisted persons within it, and gave the new pilots an active role in the Ottoman Army and Navy.
history: It will go on for a long time but lost it is already."
history: In 2017, Libya signed the UN treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
history: The two wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba until her bottle of water was completely consumed.
history: Agriculture in Libya.
history: Libya is a large country with a relatively small population concentrated very narrowly along the coast.
history: Units of the German Navy refused to set sail for a large-scale operation in a war they believed to be as good as lost.
history: In quantum mechanics, the normalization condition for wavefunctions requires the integral of a wavefunction's squared modulus to be equal to 1.
history: The Zahalni repeated their assault a few days later, but were again repulsed.
history: Ottoman classical music was an important part of the education of the Ottoman elite.
history: The Ottoman army was once among the most advanced fighting forces in the world, being one of the first to use muskets and cannons.
history: With 146 lodges spanning the entire Sahara, he moved the Senussi capital to Kufra.
history: Aside from the scarps, the general flatness is only interrupted by a series of plateaus and massifs near the centre of the Libyan Desert, around the convergence of the Egyptian-Sudanese-Libyan borders.
history: He also met regularly with the French consul in Damascus, Michel Lanusse, and persuaded him to fund efforts to arm about 1,000 of his men, mostly Algerians, whom he tasked with defending the local Christians.
history: In spite of these problems, the Ottoman state remained strong, and its army did not collapse or suffer crushing defeats.
history: New sultans were always chosen from the sons of the previous sultan.
history: Later, the name appeared in the Hebrew language, written in the Bible as Lehabim and Lubim, indicating the ethnic population and the geographic territory as well.
history: After nearly three centuries as a major power in the Mediterranean, the country was invaded by France in 1830 and formally annexed in 1848, though it was not fully conquered and pacified until 1903.
history: The Tobruk-based House of Representatives, which claims to be the legitimate government of Libya, has attempted to reestablish a military known as the Libyan National Army.
history: Abraham means "father of a multitude": he would be "a father of many nations".
history: Attempts to contain the epidemic began immediately and all suspected cases were isolated, but the disease continued to spread rapidly.
history: The demand was refused, and the peasants began to prepare for a revolt.
history: A positive or negative number when divided by zero is a fraction with the zero as denominator.
history: The suffering engendered by the war, as well as the failure of the British government to grant self-government to India afterward, bred disillusionment, resulting in the campaign for full independence led by Mahatma Gandhi.
history: Ali al-Harfush, who had been appointed sanjak-bey of Homs in 1585, was kept in his post during his exile in Constantinople and returned to his Baalbek headquarters by 1589.
history: 55,420,693,056 = 8th square triangular number.
history: Local Christians and European consuls feared Druze and Muslim plots against the Christian community, while local Muslims feared plots by the European powers, particularly France and Russia, and their perceived local sympathizers.
history: The government of Muammar Gaddafi made abortion a criminal offense.
history: The CUP joined World War I on the side of the Central Powers.
history: The adjectives decimal and denary refer to systems or quantities based on ten.
history: The Crimean cavalry became indispensable for the Ottomans' campaigns against Russia, Poland, Hungary, and Persia.
history: The value of a myriad to the power of itself, 1000010000 = 1040000.
history: The Porte consequently ordered that the beylerbey destroy an unspecified number of Druze villages, arrest and punish their muqaddams and collect the tax arrears.
history: the Japanese ¥10,000 banknote depicts Fukuzawa Yukichi.
history: In the ancient Gnostic text On the Origin of the World, Adam originally appears as a primordial being born from light poured out by the aeon known as forethought.
history: Most of the squadron was returning to Germany when it sank two British armoured cruisers at the Battle of Coronel in November 1914, before being virtually destroyed at the Battle of the Falkland Islands in December.
history: As Druze fighters moved in on the town, ostensibly guarding homes and shops, they proceeded to loot many buildings that had been abandoned by their patrons.
history: One such governor was a son of Qurqumaz, Fakhr al-Din II, who became the most powerful local force in the Levant from the time of his appointments to the sanjaks of Sidon-Beirut and Safad in the 1590s and 1602, respectively, until his downfall in 1633.
history: In general, a battle is a series of military engagements that is well defined in duration, area, and force commitment.
history: The American historian Speros Vryonis writes that the Ottoman state centred on "a Byzantine-Balkan base with a veneer of the Turkish language and the Islamic religion".
history: ISBN 0-312-26946-3  Historic fiction about the Army of the Ten Thousand.
history: Some 400 troops, led by Ali Agha al-Busayli, governor of Hauran, attacked the Druzes in Tha'la, and suffered the first defeat, as Ali and a large number of his troops were killed.
history: Azizi, Mohammad-Hossein; Azizi, Farzaneh (January 2010).
history: When the two visitors arrived in Sodom to conduct their report, they planned on staying in the city square.
history: The Ottoman Navy vastly contributed to the expansion of the Empire's territories on the European continent.
history: However, the campaign did not extend beyond raiding.
history: In a 2025 statement about its actions against foreign NGOs, the Internal Security Agency said that Doctors Without Borders had been conducting abortion trainings without approval of authorities.
history: The economy remains dominated by the state, a legacy of the country's socialist post-independence development model.
history: Education was therefore largely divided on ethnic and religious lines: few non-Muslims attended schools for Muslim students, and vice versa.
history: Barbers were told not to cut the hair of infected people or their relatives.
history: From the 13th century, manuals on calculation (adding, multiplying, extracting roots, etc.) became common in Europe where they were called algorismus after the Persian mathematician al-Khwārizmī.
history: Death rates were highest in children, those with preexisting conditions, the elderly, and those who were bled.
history: An estimated 213 million seedlings were planted by 1977, 33 million being fruit trees.
history: 1527)
April 2 – Marie Elisabeth of France, French princess (b.
history: Oil production has fallen from 1.6 million barrel per day to 900,000 in four years of war.
history: Libya's abortion law is more restrictive than the sharia-based abortion law of Saudi Arabia.
history: Britain also mined international waters which closed off entire sections of the ocean, even to neutral ships.
history: He also suggests that the Patriarch's name corresponds to a form typical of the Middle Bronze Age and not of later periods.
history: God wants the killing done on Highway 61.
history: On 24 October, Diaz launched the Battle of Vittorio Veneto and initially met stubborn resistance, but with Austria-Hungary collapsing, Hungarian divisions in Italy demanded they be sent home.
history: In March and April 1917, at the First and Second Battles of Gaza, German and Ottoman forces stopped the advance of the Egyptian Expeditionary Force, which had begun in August 1916 at the Battle of Romani.
history: On 6 December 2021, Tripoli-based Governor of the CBL Sadiq al-Kabir met with Bayda-based CBL governor, Ali Al-Hibri, who before the split had been Elkaber's Deputy Governor, in Tunisia and agreed to start unification of the CBL.
history: Thompson's The Historicity of the Patriarchal Narratives (1974), and John Van Seters' Abraham in History and Tradition (1975).
history: In Christianity, Paul the Apostle taught that Abraham's faith in God, preceding receipt of the Mosaic law, made him the prototype of all believers, Jewish or gentile; and in Islam, he is seen as a link in the chain of prophets that begins with Adam and culminates in Muhammad.
history: Key Development Forecasts for Algeria from International Futures
history: Libya's foreign policies have fluctuated since 1951.
history: Strict measures were taken and the 1623 outbreak was contained with only 40 deaths.
history: It was independently used by the Maya.
history: The Lwatae, the tribe of Ibn Battuta, as the Arabs called it, was a Berber tribe that mainly was situated in Cyrenaica.
history: Kabyle, the predominant Berber language, is taught and is partially co-official (with a few restrictions) in parts of Kabylie.
history: On the morning of 20 June, the Druzes assaulted the government house and proceeded to kill the males taking refuge in it, all of whom were unarmed.
history: 1615) and Ahmad al-Qaramani (fl.
history: The grape vine is indigenous to the coast.
history: The Ottomans were among the earliest and most enthusiastic adopters of the Hanafi school of Islamic jurisprudence, which was comparatively more flexible and discretionary in its rulings.
history: June 11 – Humphrey Gilbert is granted letters patent from the English crown to establish a colony in North America.
history: In the rural settlements, the mortality rate was 6.9%.
history: Today, direct engagements between aircraft are rare – the most modern fighter-interceptors carry much more extensive bombing payloads, and are used to bomb precision land targets, rather than to fight other aircraft.
history: Abu-Husayn, Abdul-Rahim (1985).
history: There are few theatres or art galleries due to the decades of cultural repression under the Gaddafi regime and lack of infrastructure development under the regime of dictatorship.
history: The word "Algoritmi" was the translator's Latinization of Al-Khwarizmi's name, and the word "Algorithm" or "Algorism" started to acquire a meaning of any arithmetic based on decimals.
history: The Christian residents did not put up armed resistance against the Druze fighters, and sometime before 20 June the Christians had been disarmed either at the counsel of the district governor Mustafa Shukri Effendi or an Ottoman general from the Beirut garrison named Tahir Pasha.
history: The unary numeral system, as used in tallying, is an example of a "base-1" number system, since only one mark – the tally itself – is needed.
history: President Megarif also ordered that all of the country's militias to come under government authority or disband.
history: The Christian defenders in Deir al-Qamar initially put up stiff resistance and inflicted heavy casualties on the Druze forces, who managed to raze the town's outskirts.
history: Libya was involved in the Barbary Wars of the 18th and 19th centuries.
history: These need not be greater numerical losses – if one side is much more numerous than the other then pursuing a strategy based on attrition can work even if casualties on both sides are about equal.
history: Germany's strategy in 1914 was to quickly defeat France before transferring its forces to the east, but its advance was halted in September, and by the end of the year the Western Front consisted of a near-continuous line of trenches from the English Channel to Switzerland.
history: 1 is by convention not considered a prime number.
history: In addition, slave hunting  was the main economic driving force behind Ottoman conquest.
history: Nivelle persisted with frontal assaults and, by 25 April, the French had suffered nearly 135,000 casualties, including 30,000 dead, most incurred in the first two days.
history: The man's death prompted his angry relatives to demand from the Ottoman authorities that the perpetrator be executed.
history: In Britain, 16,000 people asked for conscientious objector status.
history: The repayments were, in part, funded by German reparations that, in turn, were supported by American loans to Germany.
history: PMID 25197514.
history: The remaining coast and southern areas average 100–200 mm.
history: In 1516, the Regency of Algiers was established, gradually emerging as a largely autonomous state owing nominal allegiance to the Ottoman Empire.
history: The complaint was increased still by a tight, convulsive cough.
history: Growing unity among nationalists through the AML movement, combined with French repression, led to the violent massacre at Sétif and Guelma in May 1945, where brutal colonial reprisals convinced many that armed struggle was the only solution.
history: Many went about their daily lives as usual, and this is believed to be a factor which resulted in such a high death toll.
history: The first outbreak of whooping cough to be agreed on by most medical historians is Guillaume de Baillou's description of an outbreak in Paris in 1578.
history: The government fell into the hands of the CUP, now under the leadership of the triumvirate known as the "Three Pashas", made up of Enver, Talât, and Cemal Pasha.
history: Battles affect politics; a decisive battle can cause the losing side to surrender, while a Pyrrhic victory such as the Battle of Asculum can cause the winning side to reconsider its goals.
history: Algeria has the second-largest military in North Africa with the largest defence budget in Africa ($10 billion).
history: Abortion is a taboo subject in Libya.
history: These were systematically hunted down by the Royal Navy, though not before causing considerable damage.
history: Ibn Ziri's Berber Zirid dynasty ultimately broke away from the Shiite Fatimids, and recognised the Sunni Abbasids of Baghdad as rightful Caliphs.
history: The disease subsequently spread to a number of other households.
history: doi:10.1111/ehr.12652.
history: Jean Fernel (aka Fernelius), physician to Henry III of France, compares the 1557 influenza to the 1510 epidemic which attacked everyone with fever, a heaviness in their head, and profound coughing.
history: Latin absorbed the name from Greek and the Punic languages.
history: Ibn Khaldun divided the Berbers into the Batr and the Baranis.
history: Thompson, a literary scholar, based his argument on archaeology and ancient texts.
history: Most arable land is in the Jebel Akhdar region near Benghazi, and the Jifara Plain near Tripoli.
history: Reilly, James A.; Semerdjian, Elyse (Summer 2025).
history: Domestic conditions limit output, while income and population growth have increased food consumption.
history: Abu-Husayn, Abdul-Rahim (2004).
history: evaluates to 1, as a special case of the empty product.
history: The rods gave the decimal representation of a number, with an empty space denoting zero.
history: Asida is a sweet version of Bazeen, made from white flour and served with a mix of honey, ghee or butter.
history: Augustus installed Juba II (r.
history: The Maronite fighters defeated the Druze and Ibrahim Agha at Beit Mery before withdrawing from the village.
history: The only natural World Heritage Site in Algeria is the Tassili n'Ajjer, a mountain range.
history: She then did as she was instructed by returning to her mistress in order to have her child.
history: Reproductive Health.
history: Merchants, pilgrims, and other travelers from the south and east spread the virus throughout the western Mediterranean in July.
history: Learning of the German response, the Allied governments were free to make clear demands in their response of 14 January.
history: 13 (25): 88–100.
history: News of the events spread throughout the city and its suburbs, and crowds from Midan, Salihiya, Shaghour, and Jaramana marched towards the Christian quarters.
history: With their official numbers, currently (since 1983) they are:
history: The word subsequently came to be used to refer to the empire's military-administrative elite.
history: Unlike in Zahle, the Druzes looted large quantities of horses, livestock, jewellery and other goods.
history: During that year there were epidemics of flu recorded in the south Atlantic states, Gulf area, and Southwest.
history: Scholars believe the Meshwesh are the people called the Mazyes by Hektaios and Maxyes by Herodotus, while it was called "Mazaces" and "Mazax" in Latin sources.
history: Since 2007, Libya has been divided into 22 districts (Shabiyat):
history: His Peaceful and Sublime Excellency,
Ahali ve cihet-i askeriyeden vuku bulan teklif üzerine huzur-ı şahanelerine istifanâme-i acizanemin arzına mecbur olduğum muhat-i ilm-i âlî buyuruldukta ol babda ve katibe-i ahvalde emr-ü ferman hazret-i veliyyü'l-emr efendimizindir
history: For example, "205" in decimal means two hundreds, no tens, and five ones.
history: The local Safed militia of several hundred was heavily outnumbered by the Druze, and the city was gripped in despair as the militia eventually abandoned the city and the Druze rebels entered the city on July 5.
history: The story portrays Abraham gradually assuming the role of the ideal religious person amid themes of blessing and promise, especially the promise of progeny and land.
history: Nevertheless, the sector accounted for 98% of the total volume of exports in 2011, against 48% in 1962, and 70% of budgetary receipts, or US$71.4 billion.
history: France supported the Ottomans with an artillery unit during the 1543 Ottoman conquest of Esztergom in northern Hungary.
history: Fur trade begins in Newfoundland in North America.
history: During the coup, the Minister of War, Nazım Pasha, was killed and the Grand Vizier, Kâmil Pasha, was forced to resign.
history: Ptolemy Apion, the last Greek ruler, bequeathed Cyrenaica to Rome, which formally annexed the region in 74 BC and joined it to Crete as a Roman province.
history: As the proposed governorates have not been created, the 22 districts continue to serve as the primary administrative divisions of Libya.
history: In April, the epidemic appeared in Lija, Tarxien, Luqa, Għargħur, Naxxar and Mqabba, and in May it appeared in Gudja, Żejtun and Mosta.
history: The Child in Christian Thought.
history: The son of Murad II, Mehmed the Conqueror, reorganised both state and military, and on 29 May 1453 conquered Constantinople, ending the Byzantine Empire.
history: Benomran, Fawzi A.
history: Prinzing, Friedrich (1916).
history: In other cases, the sides adopted different names for the same battle, such as the Battle of Gallipoli which is known in Turkey as the Battle of Çanakkale.
history: Abu-Husayn had come from poverty and hardships, which made him determined to excel in his studies.
history: Zahle's residents panicked and fled the town for Metn, Keserwan and al-Sahil.
history: As a self-governing military guild answerable only to their own laws and protected by a divan (a council of senior officers who advised the pasha), the janissaries soon reduced the pasha to a largely ceremonial role.
history: The leaders of the Savior Officers (Turkish: Halâskâr Zâbitân) escaped to Egypt and Albania.
history: As the historian Eugene Rogan has written, "the single greatest threat to the independence of the Middle East" in the 19th century "was not the armies of Europe but its banks".
history: Many other cases of heritage vandalism were reported to be carried out by Islamist-related radical militias and mobs that either destroyed, robbed, or looted a number of historic sites.
history: At least 30,000 Libyans died in the civil war.
history: The rapid increase in the number of students in the higher education sector has been mirrored by an increase in the number of institutions of higher education.
history: The Book of Isaiah similarly testifies to tension between the people of Judah and the returning post-Exilic Jews (the "gôlâ"), stating that God is the father of Israel and that Israel's history begins with the Exodus and not with Abraham.
history: 87,178,291,199 = factorial prime
87,178,291,200 = 14!
history: What sparked the revolt itself, however, was the conscription decree of the Egyptian army.
history: The Serbian army, fighting on two fronts and facing certain defeat, retreated into northern Albania.
history: German economic and industrial strength continued to expand rapidly post-1871.
history: The battle was far more damaging to the Ottoman navy in sapping experienced manpower than the loss of ships, which were rapidly replaced.
history: A 2019 study argues the plague of 1629–1631 led to lower growth in several cities affected by the plague and "caused long-lasting damage to the size of Italian urban populations and to urbanization rates.
history: "Plague and long-term development: the lasting effects of the 1629–30 epidemic on the Italian cities" (PDF).
history: Apart from petroleum, the other natural resources are natural gas and gypsum.
history: {\displaystyle 10=1+2+3+4={\binom {5}{2}}={\binom {5}{3}}.}
history: ʻAbdu'l-Bahá states that Abraham was born in Mesopotamia, and Bahá'u'lláh states that the language which Abraham spoke, when "he crossed the Jordan", is Hebrew ('Ibrání), so "the language of the crossing".
history: Ahmed Karamanli, a Janissary and popular cavalry officer, murdered the Ottoman governor and seized the throne in the 1711 Karamanli coup.
history: Algiers maintained diplomatic relations with European powers and acted increasingly independently from Istanbul, especially after the janissary coup of 1659 and the consolidation of dey rule in the 18th century.
history: A million grains of table salt or granulated sugar occupies about 64 mL (2.3 imp fl oz; 2.2 US fl oz), the volume of a cube one hundred grains on a side.
history: It was performed by a single puppet master, who voiced all of the characters, and accompanied by tambourine (def).
history: In the sculpture, the father's tenderness, Sarah's rage, and Hagar's resigned acceptance portray a range of human emotions.
history: This would put the immigrant population at almost 40% before the revolution and is a figure more consistent with government estimates in 2004 which put the regular and irregular migrant numbers at 1.35 to 1.8 million (25–33% of the population at the time).
history: The slave trade was not just an economic lifeline to the Barbary States.
history: However, the dynasty suffered from internal divisions, revolts, attacks by the Almoravids, and Genoese raids on the coast.
history: Convoys slowed the flow of supplies since ships had to wait as convoys were assembled; the solution was an extensive program of building new freighters.
history: Other historians have followed the lead of the Austrian historian Paul Wittek, who emphasises the early Ottoman state's Islamic character, seeing it as a "jihad state" dedicated to expanding the Muslim world.
history: (In press).
history: However, the Petrograd Soviet refused to disband, creating competing power centres and causing confusion and chaos, with frontline soldiers becoming increasingly demoralised.
history: Led by Khalifa Haftar, it controls much of eastern Libya.
history: The Druze were officially considered Muslims by the Ottomans for taxation purposes, though they were not viewed as genuine Muslims by the authorities or the Sunni Muslim ulema (religious establishment).
history: The forests are inhabited by boars and jackals.
history: Ottoman victory in the Second Balkan War and the recovery of Edirne in the face of pressure by the Entente powers moved the CUP closer to Germany ahead of World War I.
history: Al-Mahdi declared himself Caliph in 910, becoming the founder of the Fatimid Caliphate in Ifriqiya (Tunisia).
history: 1650)
October 4 – Giovanni Francesco Guidi di Bagno, Italian Catholic cardinal (d.
history: 55 (6): 837–849.
history: Four dynasties fell as a result of the war: the Romanovs, the Hohenzollerns, the Habsburgs, and the Ottomans.
history: Because they repented, God gave Adam and Eve garments of light, and similar garments will clothe the Messiah when he comes.
history: In this line, Mohamed Temam, Abdelkhader Houamel have also returned through this art, scenes from the history of the country, the habits and customs of the past and the country life.
history: In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine ranked "Highway 61 Revisited" at number 364 in their 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
history: In South Asia except for Sri Lanka, it is known as the crore.
history: Centuries of Arab migrations to the Maghreb since the seventh century shifted the demographic scope in Algeria.
history: Druze fighters massacred about 1,000 Christian males, adults and children, while sparing the women.
history: Reynolds, Gabriel Said (2018).
history: Provincial Leaderships in Syria, 1575-1650.
history: The 1838 Druze revolt was a Druze uprising in Syria against the authority of Ibrahim Pasha and effectively against the Egypt Eyalet under Muhammad Ali.
history: Contemporary historian John Stow wrote that during "winter the quarterne agues continued in like manner" to 1557's epidemic.
history: In this text, śūnya ("void, empty") is also used to refer to zero.
history: The Fezzan was conquered by Uqba ibn Nafi in 663.
history: It descended into a bloody civil war from 1992 to 2002, remaining in an official state of emergency until the 2010–2012 Algerian protests during the Arab Spring.
history: In 1942, the Italian Fascist authorities set up forced labour camps south of Tripoli for the Jews, including Giado (about 3,000 Jews), Gharyan, Jeren, and Tigrinna.
history: It is difficult to understand, and there are a number of variations.
history: Today, the numerical digit 0 is usually written as a circle or ellipse.
history: The 1603 epidemic even influenced the King James Bible as King James, like many of his contemporaries, interpreted the disease to be a weapon of God's anger: "Behold, with a great plague with the Lord smite...
history: In physics,
Myria- (and myrio-) is an obsolete metric prefix that denoted a factor of 10+4, ten thousand, or 10,000.
history: 1 is its own factorial 
  
    
      
        1
        !
history: Most fleets were located on the western coast near Tripoli.
history: A quantity divided by zero becomes a fraction the denominator of which is zero.
history: In the early 1980s, Libya was one of the wealthiest countries in the world; its GDP per capita was higher than some developed countries.
history: This Hellenistic zero was perhaps the earliest documented use of a numeral representing zero in the Old World.
history: Haran was the father of Lot, who was Abram's nephew; the family lived in Ur of the Chaldees.
history: On 27 February 2011, the National Transitional Council was established to administer the areas of Libya under rebel control.
history: Desert dominates the south with occasional oasis cultivation at Kufra, Sabha and Murzuk.
history: The Christians remained in the government house upon the counsel of the local Ottoman garrison's commander.
history: Accordingly, King Charles XII of Sweden was welcomed as an ally in the Ottoman Empire following his defeat by the Russians at the Battle of Poltava of 1709 in central Ukraine (part of the Great Northern War of 1700–1721).
history: It has a total of 196 divisors (182 even, 14 odd).
history: Around 2,000 Londoners died of plague between August 1592 and January 1593.
history: Although approved by Parliament, King Ferdinand I refused to sign it, hoping for an Allied victory in the west.
history: By the time Bernardo had traveled to northern Italy on August 3 the disease had already spread into the rest of Europe.
history: The majority of the population is of Berber ancestry, though only around 20% identify as Berber.
history: The Ottoman military was a complex system of recruiting and fief-holding.
history: In 1971, uncultivated land was declared state property.
history: Ibrahim Pasha arrived in Constantinople later in 1585.
history: On the basis of the McMahon–Hussein Correspondence, an agreement between the British government and Hussein bin Ali, Sharif of Mecca, the revolt was officially initiated at Mecca on 10 June 1916.
history: The Ottoman Empire was always organised around a system of local jurisprudence.
history: From their principal centre of power at Carthage, the Carthaginians expanded and established small settlements along the North African coast; by 600 BC, a Phoenician presence existed in the Algerian coast, such as Icosium in modern day Algiers and Hippo Regius (modern Annaba).
history: Schwartz, Howard (2006).
history: According to the European Audiovisual Observatory's LUMIERE database, 41 Algerian films were distributed in Europe between 1996 and 2013; 21 films in this repertoire were Algerian-French co-productions.
history: ISBN 978-90-04-18193-9.
history: Subsequently, he and his children became known in Nigeria by the double-barrelled surname Shitta-Bey, a tradition which has survived to the present day through their lineal descendants.
history: Brill Publishers.
history: Central and eastern Jifara Plain and Jabal Nafusa average 200 to 400 mm.
history: 7,737,809,375 = 955
7,777,777,777 : repdigit
7,778,742,049 : 49th Fibonacci number.
history: The House of Representatives would continue to exist as a legislature, and an advisory body called the State Council would have members nominated by the General National Congress (2014).
history: Influenza viruses sometimes leap from Asia's migratory water fowl after massive migrations congregate near water sources for humans and domesticated animals, in which cross-species infections trigger antigenic shift and create new strains of flu human beings have little immunity to.
history: March 20
James Douglas, 4th Earl of Morton, the last of the regents for King James VI of Scotland, resigns after having served as regent since November 24, 1572.
history: According to various sources, several hundred thousand Greeks died during this period, which was tied in with the Greek genocide.
history: Further conquests by Selim I led the Sultans to adopt the title of caliph.
history: 1647)
July 27 – Frances Howard, Duchess of Richmond, British duchess (d.
history: Homosexuality is illegal in Algeria.
history: 12769 = 1132, palindromic in base 3
12821 = palindromic prime
history: Madison: University of Wisconsin Press.
history: The chiastic structure of the death oracle given to Adam in Genesis 3:19 forms a link between man's creation from "dust" (Genesis 2:7) to the "return" of his beginnings.
history: The Serbian revolution (1804–1815) marked the beginning of an era of national awakening in the Balkans during the Eastern Question.
history: Reptiles are especially common, including vipers, cobras, monitor lizards, and geckos, all adapted to intense heat and sheltering during the day.
history: Two Counts and a number of public health officials were also responsible for dealing with the outbreak and for carrying out the orders given to them by the four knights.
history: The flawed Organic Statute of 1947 further alienated the younger generation.
history: The CUP said that the fact Interior Minister Ahmet Reşit had been allowed to go unhurt proved that the coup leaders had desired to avoid bloodshed, since Ahmet Reşit was much more hostile towards the CUP than Nazım Pasha was.
history: Ibrahim Pasha used Mansur ibn Furaykh as his guide.
history: After 1848, this was challenged by Britain's withdrawal into splendid isolation, the decline of the Ottoman Empire, New Imperialism, and the rise of Prussia under Otto von Bismarck.
history: Across Languedoc influenza had a high mortality rate, with up to 200 people per day dying in Toulouse at the height of the region's epidemic.
history: Lacking direction from the Ottoman government, Tripoli lapsed into a period of military anarchy during which coup followed coup and few deys survived in office more than a year.
history: The natural number following 0 is 1 and no natural number precedes 0.
history: It is bordered to the northeast by Tunisia; to the east by Libya; to the southeast by Niger; to the southwest by Mali, Mauritania, and Western Sahara; to the west by Morocco; and to the north by the Mediterranean Sea.
history: When his requests for a loan from the British failed in 1824, he abandoned his plans of conquering Bornu.
history: Their administration included qadis and wazirs.
history: Both sides tried to break the stalemate using scientific and technological advances.
history: Ali Imad died of his wounds on 3 June; consequently, a 600-strong Druze force was mobilized under the command of his father Khattar Imad.
history: The Ottomans carried out organised and systematic massacres of the Armenian population at the beginning of the war and manipulated acts of Armenian resistance by portraying them as rebellions to justify further extermination.
history: Churchill puts the figures at 11,000 murdered, 100,000 refugees, 20,000 widows and orphans, 3,000 habitations burnt to the ground, and 4,000 perishing from destitution.
history: In the Middle Ages it was considered important to settle on a suitable name for a battle which could be used by the chroniclers.
history: This created the requirement for unit rotation to prevent combat fatigue, with troops preferably not remaining in a combat area of operations for more than a month.
history: It represented the value of both digits and minutes of immersion at first and last contact.
history: Gregor Horst writes in Operum medicorum tombus primus (1661) that the disease came from Asia and spread along trade routes before attacking the Middle East and North Africa.
history: Christians have also faced the threat of violence from radical Islamists in some parts of the country, with a well-publicised video released by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in February 2015 depicting the mass beheading of Christian Copts.
history: As a whole, the Somme offensive led to an estimated 420,000 British casualties, along with 200,000 French and 500,000 Germans.
history: It was also known as Pentapolis, the "five cities" being Cyrene (near the village of Shahat) with its port of Apollonia (Marsa Susa), Arsinoe (Tocra), Berenice (Benghazi) and Barca (Merj).
history: The Arab Barometer December 2019, found that the growth in the percentage of Algerians identifying as non-religious is largely driven by young Algerians, with roughly 25% describing themselves as non-religious.
history: By the 10th century, the Shiite Fatimids controlled Western Libya, and ruled the entire region in 972 and appointed Bologhine ibn Ziri as governor.
history: The Kurdish irregulars of Muhammad Sa'id Agha Shamdin began to kill, rape and loot in the Christian quarter.
history: Karam responded positively to the appeal and assembled a 4,000-strong force, but it did not make it further than the Metn village of Bikfaya.
history: 39 (3): 18–27.
history: In 2024, the Ministry of Education announced the launch of the Full-Day School Project in which 12 schools in different parts of the country will have longer school days.
history: Abdul-Karim Rafeq (1931–2024) was a historian specializing in the history of Syria and the Levant in general during the Ottoman era (1516–1918).
history: Encyclopedia Americana.
history: 1640)
December 7 – Okaji no Kata, Japanese concubine of Tokugawa Ieyasu (d.
history: The last of the Ottoman censuses was performed in 1914.
history: Abd al-Qadir had been in a meeting with Druze elders in the village of Ashrafiya, some three to four hours' distance from Damascus, when the riots began.
history: The highest parts of Jebel Akhdar receive 400-600 mm of rain annually, and the adjacent area, north to Marj Plain, receives 200–400 mm.
history: As a result, a sense of calm was restored for eight days and Christians returned to their shops, professions, and schools by 9 July.
history: 1 (3): 289–300.
history: Russia ordered general mobilisation in support of Serbia on 30 July.
history: 1638)
August 24 – John Taylor, English poet who dubbed himself The Water Poet (d.
history: The administration decided to rely primarily on conscription, rather than voluntary enlistment, to raise military manpower after only 73,000 volunteers enlisted out of the initial 1 million target in the first six weeks of war.
history: Flu symptoms could be so intense that the region's physicians often distinguished it from other contagious, seasonal pneumonias that spread from East Europe.
history: The instruments used are a mixture of Anatolian and Central Asian instruments (the saz, the bağlama, the kemence), other Middle Eastern instruments (the ud, the tanbur, the kanun, the ney), and—later in the tradition—Western instruments (the violin and the piano).
history: Most of the Algerian dishes are centred around bread, meats (lamb, beef or poultry), olive oil, vegetables, and fresh herbs.
history: Reporter Georges Rémond said:
history: Until the 19th century, Ottoman prose did not contain any examples of fiction: there were no counterparts to, for instance, the European romance, short story, or novel.
history: Embracing green industries like renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainable agriculture, and eco-tourism holds the potential to generate fresh employment prospects across a spectrum of sectors, thereby addressing unemployment challenges, particularly among the youth demographic.
history: Carthaginian culture strongly influenced nearby Berber tribes, who adopted many of its elements.
history: Don Melchiore Giacinto Calarco from Licata, Sicily wrote a poem called Melpomene idillio nella peste di Malta about the 1676 epidemic in Malta.
history: water: 0 km²
Coastline: 1,770 km.
history: The latter was supported by the external ALN under Houari Boumedienne who marched on Algiers.
history: Sarah died, and Abraham buried her in the Cave of the Patriarchs (the "cave of Machpelah"), near Hebron which he had purchased along with the adjoining field from Ephron the Hittite.
history: "Khalidi on Fakhr al-Din: Apology as History".
history: Sultan Selim I (1512–1520) dramatically expanded the eastern and southern frontiers by defeating Shah Ismail of Safavid Iran, in the Battle of Chaldiran.
history: As of 2025, Algeria has the highest Human Development Index in continental Africa, and the third largest economy in Africa, due mostly to its large petroleum and natural gas reserves, which are the sixteenth and ninth largest in the world, respectively.
history: Yale University Press.
history: Libya first experienced protests against Gaddafi's regime on 15 February 2011, with a full-scale revolt beginning on 17 February.
history: Vienna: Selbrstverlag des Instituts für Orientalistik.
history: "The Ottoman Invasion of the Shūf in 1585: A Reconsideration".
history: doi:10.1017/S002074380002239X.
history: Libya's capital, Tripoli, has many museums and archives.
history: Over the centuries, power shifted through several ruling systems: beylerbeys appointed by Istanbul, then pashas and aghas, before the era of the deys began in 1671.
history: The actual origin of the word is still disputed, though it is mostly agreed that it was a loan-word, in Old Turkic.
history: As such, the last Ottoman sultan Mehmed VI (r.
history: Hessini, Leila (May 2005).
history: He founded the Karamanli dynasty (1711–1835) of Tripolitania or Tripoli (in present-day Libya).
history: It was referred to as "cephalie catarrhal" among French physicians, but more commonly just called coqueluche.
history: On 10 August, German forces in South-West Africa attacked South Africa; sporadic and fierce fighting continued for the rest of the war.
history: Libya comprises three historical regions: Tripolitania, Fezzan, and Cyrenaica.
history: The report also indicated that members of minority religions said "they do not face harassment by authorities or the Muslim majority on the basis of their religious practices".
history: Total Ottoman casualties were 725,000, with 325,000 dead and 400,000 wounded.
history: The year after the riots the Ottoman government tried to compensate the victims of the riots.
history: Several "foreign schools" (Frerler mektebleri) operated by religious clergy primarily served Christians, although some Muslim students attended.
history: The strong educational system of the palace school was geared towards eliminating the unfit potential heirs and establishing support among the ruling elite for a successor.
history: Algeria, officially the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, is a country in the Maghreb region of North Africa.
history: The Mycenaean Greek in specific seemed to have clashed with the Libyans.
history: As the Turks expanded into the Balkans, the conquest of Constantinople became a crucial objective.
history: In 1878, Austria-Hungary unilaterally occupied the Ottoman provinces of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Novi Pazar.
history: In the early 19th century, Yusuf expanded Karamanli influence further by sending expeditions south to consolidate control of the trans-Saharan trade routes leading to Kanem–Bornu.
history: 1012 years—a teraannus—is 70 times the age of the universe.
history: The Classic Mac OS epoch and Palm OS epoch begin the midnight before the first of January 1904.
history: Taking the best of every warrior and every man of war of his country.
history: 1012 months from now, the Moon may collide with the Earth or be torn apart to form an orbital ring, if both have not already been destroyed.
history: PMID 16035601.
history: According to Ottoman understanding, the state's primary responsibility was to defend and extend the land of the Muslims and to ensure security and harmony within its borders in the overarching context of orthodox Islamic practice and dynastic sovereignty.
history: The Central Powers had to acknowledge responsibility for "all the loss and damage to which the Allied and Associated Governments and their nationals have been subjected as a consequence of the war imposed upon them by" their aggression.
history: Ahmed Karamanli, a Janissary and popular cavalry officer, murdered the Ottoman governor of Tripolitania and seized the throne in the 1711 Karamanli coup.
history: We are also witnessing the emergence of hunters with no connection to the tribes that traditionally practice hunting.
history: The terrorist attack against the Bardo Museum in Tunisia on 18 March 2015 was reportedly carried out by two Libyan-trained militants.
history: The state had control over the clergy.
history: The janissaries quickly became the dominant force in Ottoman Libya and were also in charge of collecting taxes; however, Barbary corsairs were the ones who steadily provided income to Tripoli from privateering activities.
history: On 10 January 1676, her 2-year-old brother Giacchino died, and a female slave in their household became sick soon afterwards but was able to recover.
history: Starting with the loss of Greece in 1821 and Algeria in 1830, Ottoman naval power and control over the Empire's distant overseas territories began to decline.
history: This was superseded by a 1973 health law with the same terms.
history: In 1611 the deys staged a coup against the pasha, and Dey Sulayman Safar was appointed as head of government.
history: Sudden fits of suffocation then came on, and the pain of the chest was so distressing that patients imagined they must die in the paroxysm.
history: The United Kingdom entered the war after Germany invaded Belgium, and the Ottoman Empire joined the Central Powers in November.
history: Eleven people died, including a health care worker at the island hospital.
history: The Bey of Oran received an army from Algiers, but it failed to recapture Oran; the siege caused the deaths of 1,500 Spaniards, and even more Algerians.
history: The creations of the Ottoman Palace's kitchens filtered to the population, for instance through Ramadan events, and through the cooking at the Yalıs of the Pashas, and from there on spread to the rest of the population.
history: The architecture of the empire developed from earlier Seljuk Turkish architecture, with influences from Byzantine and Iranian architecture and other architectural traditions in the Middle East.
history: Of these, at least 2,057 died in Valletta, 1,885 in Senglea, 1,790 in Birgu and 1,320 in Cospicua.
history: On 25 October 1975, a coup attempt was launched by a group of 20 military officers, mostly from the city of Misrata.
history: The Sarcophagus of Junius Bassus depicts a set of biblical stories, including Abraham about to sacrifice Isaac.
history: The following week, cooperating American and French units broke through in Champagne at the Battle of Blanc Mont Ridge (3–27 October), forcing the Germans off the commanding heights, and closing towards the Belgian frontier.
history: Bilateral Relations Fact Sheets.
history: In each locality, they governed themselves, spoke their own language, ran their own schools, cultural and religious institutions, and paid somewhat higher taxes.
history: The dynasty produced 27 rulers and made Tlemcen its capital.
history: Syria and Bilad al-Sham under Ottoman Rule: Essays in Honour of Abdul-Karim Rafeq.
history: Thus in Santa Maria Maggiore, Rome, a 5th-century mosaic portrays only the visitors against a gold ground and puts semitransparent copies of them in the "heavenly" space above the scene.
history: The province with the lowest rate of illiteracy was Algiers Province at 11.6%, while the province with the highest rate was Djelfa Province at 35.5%.
history: After driving the Maronite feudal lords out of Keserwan and seizing their land and property, the insurgent peasants organized local committees/representatives (wakils) and administered local affairs.
history: In mid-May he fled to Athos and he gathered some volunteers, but was defeated at 28 May and withdrew to Dafni.
history: Though Italy joined the Triple Alliance in 1882, a treaty with its traditional Austrian enemy was so controversial that subsequent governments denied its existence and the terms were only made public in 1915.
history: Since C arrays are accessed by the array's first element memory address plus an offset, the initial pointer plus with offset zero refers to the first element of the array.
history: The other is on the "Sunday of the Forefathers" (two Sundays before Christmas), when he is commemorated together with other ancestors of Jesus.
history: Irish nationalists and Marxists attempted to pursue Irish independence, culminating in the Easter Rising of 1916, with Germany sending 20,000 rifles to Ireland to stir unrest in Britain.
history: A third and final wave began in March 1593, and this was the most severe and spread quickly throughout the island.
history: In Europe, only the House of Habsburg had a similarly unbroken line of sovereigns (kings/emperors) from the same family who ruled for so long, and during the same period, between the late 13th and early 20th centuries.
history: The water in the Nubian Sandstone Aquifer System pre-dates the last ice ages and the Sahara Desert itself.
history: Vegetables are often used for salads, soups, tajines, couscous, and sauce-based dishes.
history: There are records of the New World eventually being reached by the flu in 1557, brought to the Spanish and Portuguese Empires by sailors from Europe.
history: Some conservative scholars attempted to defend the Patriarchal narratives in the following years, but this has not found acceptance among scholars.
history: Turkey on 6 August 1924.
history: Fathi Bashagha was appointed prime minister by the parliament in February 2022 to lead a transitional administration, but standing prime minister Abdul Hamid Dbeibeh refused to hand over power as of April 2022.
history: As a result, Algeria is running a biocapacity deficit.
history: They shoot everything they find, even during the breeding season.
history: As the Christians fled to Rashaya, Druzes began burning down the homes they left behind and assaulted the Christian villages of Kfar Mishki, Beit Lahia and Hawush.
history: In 1932 the payment of reparations was suspended by the international community, by which point Germany had paid only the equivalent of 20.598 billion gold marks.
history: However, disputes between the victors sparked the 33-day Second Balkan War, when Bulgaria attacked Serbia and Greece on 16 June 1913; it was defeated, losing most of Macedonia to Serbia and Greece, and Southern Dobruja to Romania.
history: Al-Hawasili attempted to intervene and hold back the crowds, but his soldiers abandoned him and joined in the riots.
history: He also notes parallels between the biblical narrative and the Amorite migration into the Southern Levant in the 2nd millennium BCE.
history: Epidemics had occurred in 1427–1428 and 1523, with the latter being confined to the town of Birgu.
history: This is a southern wind blowing from one to four days in spring and autumn.
history: Meşrutiyet Devrinde İttihat ve Terakki'ye Karşı Çıkanlar (in Turkish), Istanbul: Dergâh Yayınları, ISBN 9759953072
Kuyaş, Ahmet (January 2013), "Bâb-ı Âli Baskını: 100.
history: By the middle of the 2nd millennium BC, Babylonian mathematics had a sophisticated base 60 positional numeral system, but a positional value of zero was indicated by a space between numerals.
history: Osman's name in turn was the Turkish form of the Arabic name ʿUthmān (عثمان).
history: On 28 January 1676, four Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St John were appointed Plague Commissioners and were given unlimited power to safeguard the Order and the public from the disease.
history: 1012 kilometres (a petametre) is about 1/10th a light-year.
history: Those who were infected were isolated at the Lazzaretto on Bishop's Island and those who had been in contact with them were quarantined.
history: In 1939, the coastal areas of Libya began to be administered as an integral part of Italy known as the Fourth Shore.
history: Houses were disinfected by profumatori.
history: First, the Madrasa (Medrese) was designated for the Muslims, and educated scholars and state officials according to Islamic tradition.
history: The modernisation of the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century started with the military.
history: The Spanish flu killed at least 17 to 25 million people, including an estimated 2.64 million Europeans and as many as 675,000 Americans.
history: A territorial dispute arising from Morocco's claims to portions of western Algeria led to the Sand War in 1963.
history: The Trinity law sessions were suspended on 23 June,  and by 10 July most people were avoiding St Paul's Cathedral.
history: In chemistry, hydrogen, the first element of the periodic table and the most abundant element in the known universe, has an atomic number of 1.
history: On 7 July 2012, Libyans held their first parliamentary elections since the end of the former regime.
history: Many different glyphs, including the partial quatrefoil were used as a zero symbol for these Long Count dates, the earliest of which (on Stela 2 at Chiapa de Corzo, Chiapas) has a date of 36 BC.
history: Tensions resumed in the 1560s as Druze and non-Druze local dynasties, particularly the Ma'ns, Assafs and Shihabs, acquired large quantities of prohibited firearms, which were often superior to those possessed by government troops.
history: The plague was particularly lethal to younger people in St.
history: The Ottoman victory in Kosovo in 1389 effectively marked the end of Serbian power in the region, paving the way for Ottoman expansion into Europe.
history: 88,888,888,888 = repdigit
history: In 1994, Steve Reich released an opera named The Cave.
history: The Ottomans surrendered control of significant territories, many permanently.
history: Himself wounded in the exchange, Ohrili Nâfiz Bey hid in the aide-de-camp office; when Mustafa Necip entered the office, Ohrili Nâfiz Bey shot and killed him but died himself of his wounds sustained from Mustafa Necip.
history: The clashes led to shoot-outs in Hasbaya between Christians and Druze peasant fighters from various other Wadi al-Taym villages.
history: Libyan restaurants may serve international cuisine, or may serve simpler fare such as lamb, chicken, vegetable stew, potatoes and macaroni.
history: Soon after the outbreak of hostilities, Britain began a naval blockade of Germany.
history: An epoch, in computing terminology, is the date and time associated with a zero timestamp.
history: Although the city instituted a quarantine and limited access to external visitors and trade goods, it failed to eliminate the disease.
history: In April 1917, the United States joined the Allies after Germany resumed unrestricted submarine warfare against Atlantic shipping.
history: It is often called "oh" in the context of reading out a string of digits, such as telephone numbers, street addresses, credit card numbers, military time, or years.
history: Paintings on the life of Abraham tend to focus on only a few incidents: the sacrifice of Isaac; meeting Melchizedek; entertaining the three angels; Hagar in the desert; and a few others.
history: Text taken from The Impact of Disasters on Agriculture and Food Security 2025​, The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
history: Most Arabs supported the Sultan, but those near Mecca believed in and supported the British promise.
history: Algeria is divided into 69 provinces (wilayas), 553 districts (daïras) and 1,541 municipalities (baladiyahs).
history: By the 16th century, the Hafsids became increasingly caught up in the power struggle between Spain and the Ottoman Empire.
history: 1012 square metres is approximately the total area of Ethiopia, the 26th largest country on Earth.
history: For example Storm Daniel in 2023 caused catastrophic flooding that not only resulted in thousands of deaths in Libya but also destroyed agricultural infrastructure and contaminated productive lands with debris and pollutants that will affect farming for years.
history: Ibrahim recruited loyal Albanians and recalled reinforcements from Hama, Acre and Aleppo, creating an army which according to British officials counted some 15,000 men.
history: Corsair fleets operating from Algiers attacked European shipping across the Mediterranean and even into the Atlantic, forcing states such as Britain, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Denmark, and later the young United States to pay tribute or negotiate treaties directly with Algiers.
history: Under coup leader Enver Bey (later Pasha), the Ottoman Empire moved towards a closer relationship with the German Empire, officially leading to the German–Ottoman alliance being ratified the next year in 1914.
history: Abram was 75 years old when he and Sarai left Haran with his nephew Lot, and their possessions and people that they had acquired, and they traveled to Shechem in Canaan.
history: On 22 April 1915, at the Second Battle of Ypres, the Germans (violating the Hague Convention) used chlorine gas for the first time on the Western Front.
history: The collapse of the Central Powers came swiftly.
history: He is viewed as the propagator of kushta or divine truth.
history: Battlespace is a unified strategic concept to integrate and combine armed forces for the military theatre of operations, including air, information, land, sea and space.
history: 1631–49) and Osman Saqizli (r.
history: The English military historian John Keegan suggested an ideal definition of battle as "something which happens between two armies leading to the moral then physical disintegration of one or the other of them" but the origins and outcomes of battles can rarely be summarized so neatly.
history: At last the intensity of his enemies' opposition obliged him, utterly wronged, to forsake his native land.
history: Ministry of Economic and Planning.
history: 1323/4), a figure of obscure origins from whom the name Ottoman is derived.
history: "The Junblats and the Canbolads: A Case of Mistaken Identity".
history: In the aftermath of World War I, Greece fought against Turkish nationalists led by Mustafa Kemal, a war that eventually resulted in a massive population exchange between the two countries under the Treaty of Lausanne.
history: The chieftains were well received in Constantinople and shortly after sent back to their respective territories with confirmations of their iltizam.
history: The name Libya (in use since 1934 for the modern country formerly known as Tripolitania and Barca) was the Latin designation for the region of the Maghreb, from the Ancient Greek (Attic Greek: Λιβύη Libúē, Doric Greek: Λιβύᾱ Libúā).
history: Birds are less frequent but appear near water sources, and invertebrates like scorpions, beetles, and ants form a major part of the ecosystem, often being active at night.
history: Later that same year, Libya and Egypt fought a four-day border war that came to be known as the Egyptian–Libyan War.
history: While some urban life persisted, rural areas suffered from heavy taxation, frequent revolts, and insecurity.
history: The Yugoslav Committee, led by Trumbić, was formed in Paris on 30 April 1915, but shortly moved its office to London.
history: By the mid-13th century, the Almohad state fragmented, giving rise to the Hafsids in Ifriqiya, the Zayyanids in Tlemcen, and the Marinids in Fez.
history: After the coup, Enver Bey told a local Turkish correspondent for the French magazine L'Illustration (pictured on right):
history: In games,
Ten Thousand is one name of a dice game called farkle.
history: People were also buried at a cemetery in Cospicua known as Iċ-Ċimiterju tal-Infetti (Cemetery for Infectious Diseases), which still exists today.
history: Steadily the Ottoman military power became outdated, but when the Janissaries felt their privileges were being threatened, or outsiders wanted to modernise them, or they might be superseded by the cavalrymen, they rose in rebellion.
history: Battles are made up of a multitude of individual combats, skirmishes and small engagements and the combatants will usually only experience a small part of the battle.
history: God questions Adam, who blames the woman.
history: His successors conquered much of Anatolia and expanded into the Balkans by the mid-14th century, transforming their petty kingdom into a transcontinental empire.
history: At the time, procuring an abortion was punishable by nine months of prison.
history: In addition to banning foreign languages previously taught in academic institutions, leaving entire generations of Libyans with limitations in their comprehension of the English language.
history: Irregular sharpshooters (Sekban) were also recruited, and on demobilisation turned to brigandage in the Celali rebellions (1590–1610), which engendered widespread anarchy in Anatolia in the late 16th and early 17th centuries.
history: Before the reforms of the 19th and 20th centuries, the state organisation of the Ottoman Empire was a system with two main dimensions, the military administration, and the civil administration.
history: Other stories of the same canonical book, like the Genesis flood narrative, are also understood as having been influenced by older literature, with parallels in the older Epic of Gilgamesh.
history: It lacked significant industry and agricultural resources.
history: He then commanded the servants to remain while he and Isaac proceeded alone into the mount.
history: (109 hours is roughly 114,080 years.)
About 109 days ago, Australopithecus, an ape-like creature related to an ancestor of modern humans, roamed the African savannas.
history: The French gradually expanded control, capturing Constantine in 1837.
history: any number may be written.
history: Another example is the zero function (or zero map) on a domain D.
history: In time, the tank helped to make the front more mobile.
history: The Italian word zefiro was already in existence (meaning "west wind" from Latin and Greek Zephyrus) and may have influenced the spelling when transcribing Arabic ṣifr.
history: The University of Abou Bekr Belkaïd in Tlemcen and University of Batna Hadj Lakhdar occupy the 26th and 45th row in Africa.
history: This area also contains the Arkenu structures, which were once thought to be two impact craters.
history: That does not mean that the limit sought is necessarily undefined; rather, it means that the limit of ⁠f(x)/g(x)⁠, if it exists, must be found by another method, such as l'Hôpital's rule.
history: In the Balkans, Yugoslav nationalists such as the leader, Ante Trumbić, strongly supported the war, desiring the freedom of Yugoslavs from Austria-Hungary and other foreign powers and the creation of an independent Yugoslavia.
history: The French established an alliance with the Lebanese Christians, while the Druze formalized an alliance with the British, allowing them to send Protestant missionaries into the region.
history: Stortz, Martha Ellen (2001).
history: Population before the plague and death toll, selected cities:
history: In the neo-Punic inscriptions, it was written as Lby for the masculine noun, and Lbt for the feminine noun of Libyan.
history: The term originates from an exonym for the Berbers (now called Amazigh).
history: Several nationalists opposed intervention, particularly within states that the nationalists were hostile to.
history: One person who escaped capture came and told Abram what happened.
history: British Military Administration of Libya (UN administration after 1949)
French Military Territory of Fezzan-Ghadames (UN administration after 1949)
history: With the ruling elite split into pro-German and pro-Entente factions, Romania remained neutral for two years while allowing Germany and Austria to transport military supplies and advisors across Romanian territory.
history: Algerian cuisine offers a variety of dishes depending on the region and the season, but vegetables and cereals remain at its core.
history: 109 kilometres (called a terametre) is over six times the distance from the Earth to the Sun.
history: Claiming this amounted to rejection, Austria broke off diplomatic relations and ordered partial mobilisation the next day; on 28 July, they declared war on Serbia and began shelling Belgrade.
history: After 123 years, Poland re-emerged as an independent country.
history: The 1950s agricultural sector masked high poverty, low productivity and limited alternatives.
history: This devout Islamic movement garnered significant support from the desert Bedouin and became a major political force in Libya.
history: Though initially opposed in principle to the extension of local autonomy to the provinces, the CUP now seemed inclined to reconcile with those in favor of greater extension of the millet system to enable Ottoman Muslim unity.
history: In 1972, a law was passed criminalising the marriage of girls under the age of sixteen and making the woman's consent a necessary prerequisite for a marriage.
history: Pre-war military tactics that had emphasised open warfare and individual riflemen proved obsolete when confronted with conditions prevailing in 1914.
history: from exploiting the increase in oil prices resulting from the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.
history: Some of the territory lost—via the Treaty of Versailles—was credited towards the reparation figure as were other acts such as helping to restore the Library of Louvain.
history: 10 is a composite number and a happy number.
history: Both governments have been functioning simultaneously since then, which has led to dual power in Libya.
history: Not long after that there being a cooked humor which fills the lungs." Physicians like Valleriola described the 1510 flu as more fatal to children and those who were bled.
history: The classical Greeks used letters of the Greek alphabet to represent Greek numerals: they used a capital letter mu (Μ) to represent ten thousand.
history: Libyan agricultural projects and policies are overseen by a General Inspector; there is no Ministry of Agriculture, per se.
history: The Fatimids imposed Ismaili Shia doctrine, faced strong opposition from the Sunni Maliki population, and dealt with several revolts, especially the major rebellion of Abu Yazid (the Man of the Donkey).
history: For the British Empire, the state of war ceased under the provisions of the Termination of the Present War (Definition) Act 1918 concerning:
history: Bloomsbury.
history: The financial burden of the war led the Ottoman state to issue foreign loans amounting to 5 million pounds sterling on 4 August 1854.
history: A similar warning can be found in The Zohar.
history: In the 16th century, the Spanish Empire and the Knights Hospitaller occupied Tripoli until Ottoman rule began in 1551.
history: The purpose of God, moreover, was to sacrifice him as a ransom for the sins and iniquities of all the peoples of the earth.
history: 1530)
April 20 – Lady Mary Grey, English noblewoman (b.1545)
May 4 – Martin Eisengrein, German theologian (b.
history: The Coptic Church has grown in recent years in Libya, due to the growing immigration of Egyptian Copts to Libya.
history: On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria, visited Sarajevo, the capital of the recently annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina.
history: In Algeria, they ended the Hammadid dynasty by capturing Béjaïa, Algiers, and Qal'at Bani Hammad.
history: An extreme example was in the Battle of Omdurman, in which a large army of Sudanese Mahdists armed in a traditional manner were destroyed by an Anglo-Egyptian force equipped with Maxim machine guns and artillery.
history: The Life of Adam and Eve and its Greek version the Apocalypse of Moses recount how Adam repented his sin in exile and was rewarded by being transported to the heavenly paradise, foreshadowing the destiny of all the righteous at the end of time.
history: A growing sense of local autonomy emerged, exemplified by the powerful governor Gregory the Patrician (from 646), who minted his own coins and moved the capital to Sufetula (Sbeitla).
history: Fuller (The Decisive Battles of the Western World) and B.H.
history: The Shiites of Lebanon under Ottoman Rule, 1516–1788.
history: 6,227,020,800 = 13!
history: 15 (29): 75–84.
history: Abraham then offered to wash their feet and fetch them a morsel of bread, to which they assented.
history: The number 0 is also used in several other ways within various branches of mathematics:
history: By 22 August 2011, rebel fighters had entered Tripoli and occupied Green Square, which they renamed Martyrs' Square in honour of those killed since 17 February 2011.
history: The supply ship Marigold, with over 100 men under the command of John Thomas, is lost with all hands off of Cape Horn.
history: A war usually consists of multiple battles.
history: The roughly 4,000 Ottoman troops stationed in Deir al-Qamar did not stop the incoming Druzes.
history: Although Italy occupied southern Albania in May 1916, their main focus was the Isonzo front which, after the capture of Gorizia in August 1916, remained static until October 1917.
history: Serbia was conquered in a little more than a month, as the Central Powers, now including Bulgaria, sent in 600,000 troops in total.
history: In 630 BC, the ancient Greeks colonised the area around Barca in Eastern Libya and founded the city of Cyrene.
history: 5,904,900,000 = 905
history: In some places, plant life has still not recovered from the effects of the war.
history: – Alternative decimal expansion of 1
history: to achieve the object of war" was the essence of strategy.
history: A zero of a function f is a point x in the domain of the function such that f(x) = 0.
history: Hanauer, J.E.
history: There are also dust storms and sandstorms.
history: In positional number systems (such as the usual decimal notation for representing numbers), the digit 0 plays the role of a placeholder, indicating that certain powers of the base do not contribute.
history: For earlier periods estimates of size and distribution of the population are based on observed demographic patterns.
history: However, the heavy Ottoman military defeats during the war continued to sap morale, as rumors that the capital would have to be moved from Constantinople to inland Anatolia spread.
history: They stocked foodstuffs and other supplies, and townspeople hid any valuable items in their possession.
history: It was one of the first Ottoman provinces to be reclassified from an eyalet to a vilayet after an administrative reform in 1865, and by 1867 it had been reformed into the Tripolitania Vilayet.
history: Cases continued to decline to 13 deaths for the week ending 21 January 1564 before plague dissipated from the city.
history: The closures disrupted the careers of playwrights like William Shakespeare and Thomas Dekker, the latter of whom felt inspired by the turbulence to write The Wonderfull Yeare.
history: With the rise of Adolf Hitler, all bonds and loans that had been issued and taken out during the 1920s and early 1930s were cancelled.
history: Historian Heather Jones argues that the historiography has been reinvigorated by a cultural turn in the 21st century.
history: Author Norman Stone suggests that the Arabic alphabet, in which Turkish was written until 1928, was ill-suited to reflect the sounds of Turkish (which is a Turkic as opposed to Semitic language), which imposed further difficulty on Turkish children.
history: The Maronite clergy communicated to one another their increasing concerns on the violence and the need to end it, but some clergymen believed that the cycle of retaliatory attacks would not stop.
history: Enns, Peter (2012).
history: The Christians had apparently been waiting for Ottoman troops to arrive and protect them as they were promised, but this did not materialize.
history: Riots and Islamic activisim were crushed by Revolutionary Guard Corps.
history: 1649–72), both also Pasha, who ruled effectively the region.
history: At the local level, power was held beyond the control of the Sultan by the ayans or local notables.
history: Syrian Studies Association Bulletin.
history: Algeria is a member of the African Union, the Arab League, the OIC, OPEC, the United Nations, and the Arab Maghreb Union, of which it is a founding member.
history: The June 2019 Arab Barometer-BBC News report found that the percentage of Algerians identifying as non-religious has grown from around 8% in 2013 to around 15% in 2018.
history: It was divided into two parts:
history: Between 1592 and 1593, a plague epidemic had killed about 3,000 people on the island.
history: Libya has the highest level of greenhouse gas emissions per person in Africa, but has made little progress toward developing climate commitments.
history: The official language of Libya is Arabic, with vernacular Libyan Arabic being spoken most widely.
history: They argued that the most important cultural influences on the Ottoman state came from Persia.
history: The number is the year of the inscription in the Saka era, corresponding to a date of AD 683.
history: Independent and autonomous trade unions face routine harassment from the government, with many leaders imprisoned and protests suppressed.
history: In September 2024, President Tebboune won a second term with a landslide 84.3 percent of the vote, although his opponents called the results fraud.
history: Although zero became an integral part of Maya numerals, with a different, empty tortoise-like "shell shape" used for many depictions of the "zero" numeral, it is assumed not to have influenced Old World numeral systems.
history: For the first 10 months of 1915, Austria-Hungary used most of its military reserves to fight Italy.
history: As a result, elite squads became much more recognized and distinguishable.
history: From 1819 onward Yusuf started planning for a conquest of Bornu, but the military expeditions that did take place seemed to be focused on profiting from the slave trade rather than on establishing administrative control over the region.
history: The programme comprised economic, institutional, political and social reform to modernise the country, raise living standards, and tackle the causes of alienation.
history: To the soldiers who did the fighting, the distinction was usually academic; a soldier fighting at Beaumont Hamel on November 13, 1916, was probably unaware he was taking part in what the committee named the Battle of the Ancre.
history: The most dominant regions with their distinguished musical styles are Balkan-Thracian Türküs, North-Eastern (Laz) Türküs, Aegean Türküs, Central Anatolian Türküs, Eastern Anatolian Türküs, and Caucasian Türküs.
history: Čabrinović threw a grenade at the Archduke's car and injured two of his aides.
history: The Ottoman Empire fell behind technologically from the rest of Europe by the late 18th century as imperial authority fragmented.
history: dollar bill of any denomination has a mass of 1 gram (0.035 oz).
history: Around 24% of London's population ultimately perished, but the plague affected London's unsanitary parishes and neighbourhoods the most.
history: These granite mountains are ancient, having formed long before the sandstones surrounding them.
history: In climate, Summary of 10000 Years is one of several pages of the Climate Timeline Tool: Exploring Weather & Climate Change Through the Powers of 10 sponsored by the National Climatic Data Center of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration.
history: In many places in Europe, Jews were suffering persecution at the hands of their Christian counterparts, such as in Spain, after the conclusion of the Reconquista.
history: Abd al-Qadir's men evacuated the French Lazarist missionaries from their monastery, as well as the French Sisters of Charity with one-hundred fifty children under their care.
history: On 2 March 1977, Libya officially became the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.
history: Most of the Ottoman Sultans adhered to Sufism and followed Sufi orders, and believed Sufism was the correct way to reach God.
history: Most of the population has occupations in industry and services, and a small percentage is in agriculture.
history: Its symbol is G.
history: All life on Earth may be extinct, although those aforementioned microorganisms might survive a little longer.
history: Improvements in transport and the sudden evolving of trench warfare, with its siege-like nature during the First World War in the 20th century, lengthened the duration of battles to days and weeks.
history: Up to 1000 Parisians per day were dying at the height of the "1510 peste." Mézeray mentions that it disrupted judicial proceedings and colleges, and that the 1510 flu was more widespread and deadly in France than in other countries.
history: While formally assimilated as French departments in 1848, it operated under a governor-general and institutions that strongly favoured settlers, who became known as colons and later, as Pied-Noirs.
history: Typically, the rioters broke down the homes' doors, attacked the men with their various weapons, and looted anything of value, stripping houses of windows, doors, paneling, and floor tiles.
history: Then the fever went off, with a sweat of bleeding at the nose.
history: Their history is relatively well documented, particularly through the works of the famous historian Ibn Khaldun.
history: Genesis 11 records that Terah, Abram, Sarai, and Lot departed for Canaan, but settled in a place named Haran (Hebrew: חָרָן Ḥārān), where Terah died at the age of 205.
history: A combination of military defeats and diplomatic pressure from the United Kingdom and France on the government of King Otto resulted in the withdrawal of Greek rebel bands to independent Greece.
history: The so-called Geneva-Ghadames talks were supposed to bring the GNC and the Tobruk government together at one table to find a solution of the internal conflict.
history: The highest point is Mount Tahat (3,003 metres or 9,852 feet).
history: The incident raised the intensity of the riots, according to Brant, who wrote that any Christian who was encountered by the mob was killed.
history: Mustafa II (1695–1703) led the counterattack of 1695–1696 against the Habsburgs in Hungary, but was undone at the disastrous defeat at Zenta (in modern Serbia), 11 September 1697.
history: In May 1913, the world's first specialised Reconnaissance Training Program was started by the Aviation School, and the first separate reconnaissance division was established.
history: The CUP government introduced several political and military reforms to the empire, including increasing centralization and carrying out military modernization efforts.
history: 'Ottoman State'.
history: The deceased of Birgu were buried at Il-Hisieli.
history: The Anglo-Ottoman Treaty, also known as the Treaty of Balta Liman that opened the Ottoman markets directly to English and French competitors, can be seen as one of the staging posts along with this development.
history: This is one of two digits for which this works, although the other solution has O and I are the same digit: 17576, as (1+7+5+7+6) (1+7+5+7+6) (1+7+5+7+6) = (26)(26)(26) = 17576.
history: The country's full name is officially the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria (Arabic: الجمهورية الجزائرية الديمقراطية الشعبية, romanised: al-Jumhūriyah al-Jazāʾiriyah ad-Dīmuqrāṭiyah ash‑Shaʿbiyah; French: République algérienne démocratique et populaire, abbr.
history: Slaving came to an end in the early years in the 1830s after the French conquest of Algeria.
history: 1918–1922) was a direct patrilineal (male-line) descendant of the first Ottoman sultan Osman I (d.
history: The factorial 0!
history: Early battles were probably fought between rival hunting bands as unorganized crowds.
history: In 1942, Jews who were not in the concentration camps were heavily restricted in their economic activity and all men between 18 and 45 years were drafted for forced labour.
history: Abram built an altar to God in Shechem, and later he built another altar between Bethel and Ai.
history: The financial support provided by the state, through the Fund for the Development of the Arts, Techniques and the Film Industry (FDATIC) and the Algerian Agency for Cultural Influence (AARC), plays a key role in the promotion of national production.
history: According to mathematician Charles Seife, after the Babylonian placeholder zero shows up sometime shortly after 500 BC, Greek astronomers began to use the lowercase Greek letter ό (όμικρον: omicron) as a placeholder or representation of ground-level/null degree value.
history: As early as the beginning of the 3rd century, Christian art followed Christian typology in making the sacrifice of Isaac a foreshadowing of Christ's sacrifice on the cross, and its memorial in the sacrifice of the Mass.
history: The government enacted legislation dealing with political parties, the electoral code, and the representation of women in elected bodies.
history: The sum of all its divisors (including itself) is 2,499,694,822,171; therefore, its aliquot sum is 1,499,694,822,171, and its abundance is 499,694,822,171.
history: In 2007, Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, the second-eldest son of Muammar Gaddafi, was involved in a green development project called the Green Mountain Sustainable Development Area, which sought to bring tourism to Cyrene and to preserve Greek ruins in the area.
history: In 2003, Gaddafi announced that all of his regime's weapons of mass destruction were disassembled, and that Libya was transitioning toward nuclear power.
history: The GPRA rejected de Gaulle's ceasefire proposal termed "Peace of the Brave", causing him to shift his position toward self-determination (announced in 1959).
history: After Charles de Gaulle's return to power in 1958, the FLN created the Provisional Government of the Algerian Republic (GPRA) and appointed Ferhat Abbas as its president.
history: Algeria is a semi-presidential republic composed of 69 provinces (wilayas) and 1,541 communes.
history: Sufism, a diverse body of Islamic mysticism, found fertile ground in Ottoman lands; many Sufi religious orders (tariqa), such as the Bektashi and Mevlevi, were either established, or saw significant growth, throughout the empire's history.
history: Eyewitnesses and newspapers reported very little actual popular participation in the coup or the events surrounding it.
history: Had it not been for the Russian intervention, Sultan Mahmud II could have faced the risk of being overthrown and Muhammad Ali could have even become the new Sultan.
history: Empty demolition ships utilized the tactic to crash into opposing ships and set it afire with an explosion.
history: Ottomans finally conquered Fezzan between 1556 and 1577.
history: In 1785 around one-sixth of the Egyptian population died from the plague and Aleppo saw its population reduced by twenty percent in the 18th century.
history: One such coup was led by Turkish officer Ahmed Karamanli.
history: However, the steps required to save coastal water resources – i.e., irrigation regulation and land tenure reform to make it more water-efficient - conflicted with Gaddafi's concept of economic equity, which favored intensive irrigated cultivation of small plots for family use.
history: Most of those who died from the disease did so on the fourth day, but some succumbed up to 11 days after first symptoms.
history: Another reinforcement of 4,000 men was requested by Ibrahim Pasha from Bashir Shihab II, and arrived under the command of Bashir's son.
history: Though Tripolitania continued to pay nominal tribute to the Ottoman padishah, it otherwise acted as an independent kingdom.
history: A good example of an ancient naval battle is the Battle of Salamis.
history: Austro-Hungarian leaders believed Germany would cover its northern flank against Russia.
history: On 2 August, Germany occupied Luxembourg and exchanged fire with French units when German patrols entered French territory; on 3 August, they declared war on France and demanded free passage across Belgium, which was refused.
history: In the mid-2000s, the government employed about 70% of all national employees.
history: 1621)
December 28 – Henry Bulstrode, English Member of Parliament (d.
history: (109 minutes is roughly 1,901 years.)
About 109 hours ago, modern human beings and their ancestors were living in the Stone Age (more precisely, the Middle Paleolithic).
history: (Negative temperatures can be defined for some physical systems, but negative-temperature systems are not actually colder.) This is in contrast to temperatures on the Celsius scale, for example, where zero is arbitrarily defined to be at the freezing point of water.
history: In Germany, civilian deaths were 474,000 higher than in peacetime, due in large part to food shortages and malnutrition that had weakened disease resistance.
history: Barbed wire, machine guns and artillery allowed the creation of strong defensive systems that made massed infantry advances extremely difficult.
history: The Second Barbary War (1815, also known as the Algerian War) was the second of the two wars fought between the United States and the Ottoman Turks' North African regencies of Algiers, Tripoli, and Tunis, known collectively as the Barbary States.
history: Peano later revised his axioms to begin the sequence with 0.
history: By the end of August, the Allied left, which included the British Expeditionary Force (BEF), was in full retreat, and the French offensive in Alsace-Lorraine was a disastrous failure, with casualties exceeding 260,000.
history: In early 1915, several Armenians volunteered to join the Russian forces and the Ottoman government used this as a pretext to issue the Tehcir Law (Law on Deportation), which authorised the deportation of Armenians from the Empire's eastern provinces to Syria between 1915 and 1918.
history: Abraham then came to "these regions", that is, to the Holy Land.
history: Egyptian losses were 13 killed, 65 wounded.
history: At some point in Isaac's youth, Abraham was commanded by God to offer his son up as a sacrifice in the land of Moriah.
history: Lot decided to go eastward to the plain of Jordan, where the land was well watered everywhere as far as Zoara, and he dwelled in the cities of the plain toward Sodom.
history: Abraham again fell to the ground, and he laughed, saying "in his heart, 'Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old?
history: In 1911, the Russian Stavka agreed with the French to attack Germany within fifteen days of mobilisation, ten days before the Germans had anticipated, although it meant the two Russian armies that entered East Prussia on 17 August did so without many of their support elements.
history: Public homosexual behavior is punishable by up to two years in prison.
history: institutions and decision-making mechanisms to guide the transition until the adoption of a permanent constitution."
Talks, negotiations and dialogue continued on during mid-2015 at various international locations, culminating at Skhirat in Morocco in early September.
history: He locked most of the fleet inside the Golden Horn, where the ships decayed for the next 30 years.
history: According to new election rules, a new prime minister has 21 days to form a cabinet that must be endorsed by the various governing bodies within Libya.
history: The last outbreak of sweating sickness occurs in England.
history: The Meanings We Choose: Hermeneutical Ethics, Indeterminacy and the Conflict of Interpretations.
history: The Egyptian troops, dispatched from Damascus were slaughtered by Druze peasants during the night.
history: Physicians treating the flu often used treatments called coctions to remove excess humors they believed to be causing illness.
history: Abraham rushed to Sarah's tent to order ash cakes made from choice flour, then he ordered a servant-boy to prepare a choice calf.
history: He mobilised about 20,000 soldiers, including the Janissaries of Egypt and Damascus, as well as local chieftains, namely the Bedouin Mansur ibn Furaykh and Druze rivals of the Ma'ns.
history: The 1603 London plague epidemic was the first of the 17th century and marked the transition from the Tudor to the Stuart period.
history: The Treaty also revealed that the Ottoman Empire was on the defensive and unlikely to present any further aggression in Europe.
history: The Muslim thinker Nasir Khusraw offers another interpretation of Adam's significance to the Islamic religious tradition.
history: For the next several decades, Libya was under the purview of the Umayyad Caliph of Damascus until the Abbasids overthrew the Umayyads in 750, and Libya came under the rule of Baghdad.
history: The World of the Ten Thousand Things: Poems 1980–1990 by Charles Wright  ISBN 0-374-29293-0  ISBN 0-374-52326-6.
history: When Druze forces commanded by Isma'il al-Atrash saw the flames emanating from northern Zahle, they stormed the town.
history: As Yusuf weakened, factions sprung up around his three sons; though Yusuf abdicated in 1832 in favor of his son Ali II, civil war soon resulted.
history: On 6–7 August, French and British troops invaded the German protectorates of Togoland and Kamerun.
history: Increasing plague activity along England's southern and eastern coasts appeared during the late 1580s and the early 1590s.
history: Subsequently, the name ‘Africa’ was later extended to the whole continent, named after the Roman province of Africa (which occupied parts of modern-day Tunisia and modern-day Algeria).
history: 3 (3): 285–294.
history: Computer: A display resolution of 1,280 by 800 pixels contains 1,024,000 pixels.
history: "Well documented descriptions from medical observers" who witnessed the effects of the pandemic as it spread through populations have been reviewed by numerous medical historians in the centuries since.
history: Abraham stated that he thought there was no fear of God in that place, and that they might kill him for his wife.
history: Diseases flourished in the chaotic wartime conditions.
history: German strategist Carl von Clausewitz stated that "the employment of battles ...
history: Instead, the French cabinet ordered its Army to withdraw 10 km behind the German frontier, to avoid provoking war.
history: Persia, ostensibly neutral, had long been under British and Russian influence.
history: The caliphate was officially transferred from the Mamluks to the Ottoman sultanate in 1517, whose members were recognised as caliphs until the office's abolition on 3 March 1924 by the Republic of Turkey (and the exile of the last caliph, Abdülmecid II, to France).
history: 'inheritor, guardian').
history: In religion,
The Bible,
has 52 references to ten thousand in the King James Version.
history: On 14 October 2012, the General National Congress elected former GNC member and human rights lawyer Ali Zeidan as prime minister-designate.
history: As Imad's Druze forces entered Zahle, they proceeded to burn down its northern neighborhoods.
history: Philadelphia: Jewish Publication Society.
history: The Ottomans were holders of the Caliph title, meaning they were the leaders of Muslims worldwide.
history: European consuls requested that he help bring Christian survivors of the massacres in Hasbaya and Rashaya to Damascus and to reinforce the Ottoman garrisons in the Beqaa Valley.
history: The early Christian community adapted this to their own legend of Golgotha, replacing the altar with the place of Jesus's crucifixion.
history: 1,000,000 is also the square of 1000 and the cube of 100.
history: Cardinal Georges d'Amboise, a close friend and advisor to the King of France, is sometimes believed to have died of influenza since his health sharply declined after arriving in Lyons in May 1510.
history: The historian Bartholomeo dal Pozzo attributed the epidemic as divine retribution against the population for their sins.
history: Operating as a separate unit for the first time, the Canadian Corps' capture of Vimy Ridge is viewed by many Canadians as a defining moment in creating a sense of national identity.
history: Kohn, George C.
history: Another god, Horon, tries to depose El and when thrown down from the mountain, he transforms the Tree of Life from the garden into a Tree of Death.
history: On 2 April 2019, Bouteflika resigned from the presidency after mass protests against his candidacy for a fifth term in office.
history: Battles are usually hybrids of different types listed above.
history: 'Adam, The Chosen One') by Allah.
history: (109 days is roughly 2.738 million years.)
About 109 months ago, dinosaurs walked the Earth during the late Cretaceous.
history: They were powerful enough to reject the military reforms proposed by Sultan Selim III.
history: The flu pandemic first reached Europe in 1557 from the Ottoman Empire along trade and shipping routes connected to Constantinople, brought to Asia Minor by infected travelers from the Middle East.
history: The organisation of the treasury and chancery were developed under the Ottoman Empire more than any other Islamic government and, until the 17th century, they were the leading organisation among all their contemporaries.
history: Most Italian settlers, at their height numbering over half a million, left after Italian Libya's independence in 1947.
history: In futurology, Stewart Brand in Visions of the Future: The 10,000-Year Library proposes a museum built around a 10,000-year clock as an idea for assuring that vital information survives future crashes of civilizations.
history: Two trans-African automobile routes pass through Algeria:
history: In 1902, Rome secretly had agreed with France to remain neutral if the latter was attacked by Germany, effectively nullifying its role in the Triple Alliance.
history: One variation uses a short vertical bar instead of the dot.
history: Functions are often normalized by the condition that they have integral one, maximum value one, or square integral one, depending on the application.
history: As was apparent to several German leaders, this amounted to a strategic defeat; shortly after the First Battle of the Marne, Crown Prince Wilhelm told an American reporter "We have lost the war.
history: Italian nationalism was stirred by the outbreak of the war and was initially strongly supported by a variety of political factions.
history: The devastating Justinian Plague further weakened the region.
history: It includes the environment, factors and conditions that must be understood to apply combat power, protect the force or complete the mission, comprising enemy and friendly armed forces; facilities; weather; terrain; and the electromagnetic spectrum.
history: Muslims and Druze throughout Syria celebrated the fall of Zahle, a town viewed by many Damascene Muslims as "insolent and ambitious", according to the historian Leila Tarazi Fawaz.
history: Its official languages are Arabic and Tamazight, while the vast majority of the population speak the Algerian dialect of Arabic.
history: In her short story collection Sarah and After, Lynne Reid Banks tells the story of Abraham and Sarah, with an emphasis on Sarah's view of events.
history: After 1871, French policy aimed to avenge this defeat and expand France's colonial empire.
history: The Ghaza thesis popular during the 20th century credited their success to rallying religious warriors to fight for them in the name of Islam, but it is no longer generally accepted.
history: This arose from nationalist designs on Austro-Hungarian territory in Trentino, the Austrian Littoral, Rijeka and Dalmatia, considered vital to secure the borders established in 1866.
history: In 2008, the illiteracy rate for people over 10 was 22.3%, 15.6% for men and 29.0% for women.
history: In early 1918, the front line was extended and the Jordan Valley was occupied, following the First Transjordan and the Second Transjordan attacks by British Empire forces in March and April 1918.
history: Anthropologist Henry F.
history: A remnant of the centuries of Turkish rule is the presence of a population of Turkish origin, and those of partial Turkish origin, the Kouloughlis.
history: During the 18th century, Ottoman power waned in North Africa, with the sultans ending the practice of sending pashas to Tripoli, Algiers and Tunis.
history: To pay for purchases in the US, Britain cashed in its extensive investments in American railroads and then began borrowing heavily from Wall Street.
history: Upon discovering that Sarai was a married woman, Pharaoh demanded that Abram and Sarai leave, escorting them to the frontier.
history: doi:10.1093/dh/dhae024.
history: His sudden decline in health and flu's arrival in Europe around early summer have created uncertainty as to whether he died of gout or influenza, but "coqueluche" is not mentioned in French royal correspondence that year until August.
history: At the start of the next world war the New Zealand funds were reformed, having been criticised as overlapping, wasteful and abused, but 11 were still functioning in 2002.
history: Algerian painters, like Mohammed Racim and Baya, attempted to revive the prestigious Algerian past prior to French colonisation, at the same time that they have contributed to the preservation of the authentic values of Algeria.
history: It corresponded roughly to the northern parts of modern-day Libya in historic Tripolitania and Cyrenaica.
history: Contemporary sources referred to the land as Watan al-Jazāʾir (وطن الجزائر, "the country of Algiers"), while the Ottoman Turkish aristocracy settled in the region identified both itself and the local population as "Algerians."
history: However, Hassan returned with fresh troops, defeated and killed Kahina around 697.
history: Ottoman officers began to lose control of their soldiers, some of whom joined or led the rioters.
history: The Native American Cherokee appear to have been affected during this wave, and it may have spread along newly established trade routes between Spanish colonies in the New World.
history: Animals survive through traits like being nocturnal, burrowing, conserving water, and tolerating heat.
history: In the Galilee, peace was maintained by local Bedouin chieftains, such as Aqil Agha, who assured Christians in Nazareth and Acre of his protection.
history: This Islamic movement was eventually destroyed by the Italian invasion.
history: At the same time, Freedom and Accord found itself on the brink of dissolution after intra-party conflicts.
history: In the early 18th century, the Ottoman Empire was losing its grip on its North African holdings, including Tripolitania.
history: In accordance with the constitution the new country had a federal government with the three states of Cyrenaica, Tripolitania and Fezzan having autonomy.
history: Abu-Husayn based his reassessment of the events on contemporary and near contemporary sources, namely Ottoman government records, the accounts of the Ottoman historian Mustafa Selaniki (d.
history: Dobyns described a 1557 epidemic of influenza in Ecuador in which European and Native populations were both left sick with severe coughing.
history: Typewriters originally made no distinction in shape between O and 0; some models did not even have a separate key for the digit 0.
history: Strategic bombers were created, principally by the Germans and British, though the former used Zeppelins as well.
history: These repeated outbreaks proved unusually deadly for populations already suffering from extensive rains and poor harvests.
history: Some felt as though they were corded over the breast, with a weight at the stomach, all which continued to the third day at the furthest.
history: As such, the numerical value of true is equal to 1 in many programming languages.
history: August 31 – The Forbisher expedition departs North America for its journey back to England.
history: People were forbidden to gather in churches and hotels and in outdoor public spaces, barricades were built and isolation hospitals were enlarged once again.
history: In 2020, naturally regenerating forest covered 1,439,000 hectares (ha) and planted forest covered 510,000 hectares (ha).
history: The number of European Pied-Noirs who fled Algeria totalled more than 900,000 between 1962 and 1964.
history: British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli advocated restoring the Ottoman territories on the Balkan Peninsula during the Congress of Berlin, and in return, Britain assumed the administration of Cyprus in 1878.
history: The hostilities were set off after two Druze men from Kfar Qouq were arrested by the authorities for their suspected role in the deaths of two Christians from Dahr al-Ahmar who were shot down as they were transporting clay pots on their way to Damascus.
history: Libya's authoritarian regime led by Muammar Gaddafi put up much more of a resistance compared to the regimes in Egypt and Tunisia.
history: doi:10.1163/9789004531130_005.
history: However, the Italian Socialist Party decided to oppose the war after anti-militarist protestors were killed, resulting in a general strike called Red Week.
history: The sultan no longer had executive powers.
history: doi:10.2307/622157.
history: Instead, this period became the story of the twilight struggle of the Empire.
history: In April, two Druze men were murdered in the vicinity of Beirut, followed by the killing of three Christians outside of Sidon.
history: This tactic made it difficult for U-boats to find targets, which significantly lessened losses; after the hydrophone and depth charges were introduced, destroyers could potentially successfully attack a submerged submarine.
history: After the biblical flood, Abraham was the only one among the pious who solemnly swore never to forsake God, studied in the house of Noah and Shem to learn about the "Ways of God", and continued the line of High Priest from Noah and Shem, assigning the office to Levi and his seed forever.
history: The United States launched a protest, and Germany changed its rules of engagement.
history: The country joined the OPEC cartel in 1962.
history: Opposition to joining the Central Powers increased when Turkey became a member in September, since in 1911 Italy had occupied Ottoman possessions in Libya and the Dodecanese islands.
history: Libya's 2024 Global Hunger Index (GHI) score is 19.2, which indicates a moderate level of hunger.
history: Yet another version of events held that either Enver Bey or Talaat Bey had accidentally killed Nazım Pasha while trying to protect themselves from gunfire from his aid-de-camp Kıbrıslı Tevfik Bey.
history: Libya is planning to build 24 fishing ports in addition to one under construction at Marsa Zuaga.
history: However, thanks to a law he had passed through the Senate, Ahmed Muhtar Pasha was able, with the sultan's support, to dissolve the Chamber with ease on 5 August, after which Sultan Mehmed V immediately called for new elections by imperial decree.
history: Following the defeat of loyalist forces, Libya was torn among numerous rival, armed militias affiliated with distinct regions, cities and tribes, while the central government had been weak and unable to effectively exert its authority over the country.
history: According to an account of that confrontation, the Christians fought "without discipline" and were "heedless of danger", spreading themselves thin across the plains of Qabb Ilyas, with fighters taking up uncoordinated positions and firing their weapons.
history: In the 17th century, Barbary pirates, now including expelled Moriscos adopted European naval tactics most notably in the Republic of Salé whose 'Moriscos' exploited their familiarity with Spanish shores to raid the Spanish Levante in the 17th century.
history: Some of them, most notably prominent peace activist Stephen Hobhouse, refused both military and alternative service.
history: Although the national team has never won a major competition or qualified for a World Cup, there is still lots of passion for the sport and the quality of football is improving.
history: Finally, after giving a memorandum to the Military Council, the Savior Officers succeeded in getting Grand Vizier Mehmed Said Pasha (who they blamed for allowing the early elections that led to the CUP domination of the Chamber) and his government of CUP ministers to resign in July 1912.
history: The base is approximately 4 ft × 8 ft × 4 ft (1.2 m × 2.4 m × 1.2 m).
history: Sonatrach, the national oil company, is the largest company in Africa and a major supplier of natural gas to Europe.
history: Mussolini's nationalism enabled him to raise funds from Ansaldo (an armaments firm) and other companies to create Il Popolo d'Italia to convince socialists and revolutionaries to support the war.
history: Taqi al-Din built the Constantinople observatory of Taqi ad-Din in 1577, where he carried out observations until 1580.
history: In Islamic history, 10,000 is the Number of besieging forces led by Muhammad's adversary, Abu Sufyan, during the Battle of the Trench.
history: Prince Henry moved to Winchester, where his mother welcomed him with a masque.
history: According to the historian William Harris, the Christians of Mount Lebanon felt "buoyed by their local numerical superiority, yet despondent because of the hostile Muslim mood in Syria" in the aftermath of the Ottoman Empire's reforms.
history: Weapons and armour can be decisive; on many occasions armies have achieved victory through more advanced weapons than those of their opponents.
history: For example, the area code 201 may be pronounced "two oh one", and the year 1907 is often pronounced "nineteen oh seven".
history: Although the vast majority of Irish people consented to participate in the war in 1914 and 1915, a minority of advanced Irish nationalists had staunchly opposed taking part.
history: After the homes were burned, the Greek Orthodox, Melkite and Armenian churches were looted.
history: Stone also argues that although Sunni Islam was the state religion, the Ottoman state supported and controlled the Eastern Orthodox Church, which in return for accepting that control became the Ottoman Empire's largest land-holder.
history: It sets prison sentences of up to six years for providing a non-consensual abortion and at least six months for providing, receiving, or self-inducing a consensual abortion, with higher sentences if the procedure results in injury or death.
history: However, as of 2024, Libya has not ratified the Paris Agreement and submitted its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), and has made little progress toward the development of climate change adaptation plans.
history: The Egyptian army was commanded by Ahmad Bek, consisting of an infantry regiment, 300 Bedouins and 500 irregulars, which succeeded to overwhelm the Druzes with 33 dead, scores wounded and four taken prisoner.
history: French physician and medical historian Lazare Rivière documented an anonymous physician's descriptions of a flu outbreak occurring in the Languedoc region of France in July 1557.
history: Tomb of Ten Thousand Soldiers – defeat of the Tang dynasty army of China in the Nanzhao kingdom in 751.
history: The 1790–95 Tripolitanian civil war occurred in those years.
history: The Ethics of the Sages: An Interfaith Commentary on Pirkei Avot.
history: The movement of women into industry and traditionally male labour ultimately aided the struggle for voting rights for women.
history: Austria-Hungary blamed Serbia, and declared war on 28 July.
history: Homer names Libya, in the Odyssey (IX.95; XXIII.311).
history: Libya adopted its plain green national flag on 19 November 1977.
history: In contrast, the term Turk (Türk) was used to refer to the Anatolian peasant and tribal population and was seen as a disparaging term when applied to urban, educated individuals.
history: While preparations for new elections were underway, however, the First Balkan War erupted early in October 1912, catching Ahmed Muhtar Pasha's administration off-guard.
history: With the Roman conquest, the entire region of present-day Libya became part of the Roman Empire.
history: However, at the last minute, the election was postponed indefinitely and the international community agreed to continue its support and recognition of the interim government headed by Dbeibeh.
history: Genesis 1 tells of God's creation of the world and its creatures, with humankind as the last of his creatures: "Male and female created He them, and blessed them, and called their name Adam ...".
history: The human condition was central to his concerns, and Segal used the Old Testament as a source for his imagery.
history: In addition the Ottoman state encouraged transnational migration, including Circassians, Bosnians, and Russian Jews resettled in the southern Levant.
history: ISBN 978-960-6887-29-1.
history: de Moor reconstructed close Canaanite parallels, which they posit as being the origin of the biblical creation myth from the first chapters of Genesis including the Garden of Eden and Adam narrative.
history: Rémond said that preventing the minimalist coup would have taken at most 50 guards, and that the only reason that the Sublime Porte had been defenseless was because Kâmil Pasha wanted to call the bluff of any real threat the CUP, which he had sidelined politically, posed to his government.
history: Abraham opposed his own people and government, and even his own kin, he rejected all their gods, and, alone and single-handed, he withstood a powerful nation.
history: These efforts contributed to cement the foundations of a statal structure in what is today Libya, but control from Constantinople remained loose at best, much like in the rest of the Barbary Coast of North Africa.
history: These sentences are halved if the abortion is performed by a medical professional or if it is done "for the preservation of the honor of the offender or one of his kindred", which includes cases of pregnancy from rape.
history: There are billions of worker ants in the largest ant colony in the world, which covers almost 4,000 miles (6,400 km) of the Mediterranean coast.
history: After eight hours of the Druze assault, Deir al-Qamar surrendered on 3 June, partially as a result of internal divisions among the town's Christian militia.
history: Algeria lies mostly between latitudes 19° and 37°N (a small area is north of 37°N and south of 19°N), and longitudes 9°W and 12°E.
history: The FLN's fragile unity broke down immediately after independence, leading to power struggles between the GPRA's president Ben Youcef Ben Khedda, other GPRA members including Ait Ahmed, Rabah Bitat and Ahmed Ben Bella.
history: Camels are used extensively; the desert also abounds with venomous and nonvenomous snakes, scorpions, and numerous insects.
history: Over time, the dynasty weakened due to endless external conflicts and internal betrayals, with the last Zayyanid rulers becoming Spanish then Ottoman vassals.
history: The a to Z of the Druzes.
history: S2CID 159670509.
history: Italian administrators continued to be employed in Tripoli, however.
history: The initial German advance in the West was very successful.
history: The initial "N" was used as a zero symbol in a table of Roman numerals by Bede—or his colleagues—around AD 725.
history: Armed supporters of the General National Congress occupied Tripoli, forcing the newly elected parliament to flee to Tobruk.
history: The Ottoman Navy Foundation was established in 1910 to buy new ships through public donations.
history: Arab Book Publishers.
history: 1641)
January 28 – Cornelius Haga, Dutch diplomat (d.
history: "The Shihab Succession (1697): A Reconsideration".
history: 9,393,931,000 = 21103
9,474,296,896 = 973362 = 21163 = 466
9,509,900,499 = 995
9,814,072,356 = 990662, the largest pandigital square, largest pandigital pure power.
history: Most of these soils are undeveloped or partially developed.
history: In July 2015 SRSG Leon reported to the UN Security Council on the progress of the negotiations, which at that point had just achieved a political agreement on 11 July setting out "a comprehensive framework...
history: The city's sugar refineries continued their business unabated even though public houses and theatres remained closed on government orders to halt the spread of infection.
history: God notes that "It is not good that the man should be alone" (Genesis 2:18) and brings the animals to Adam, who gives them their names, but among all the animals there was not found a companion for him (Genesis 2:20).
history: A million millilitres or cubic centimetres (one cubic metre) of water has a mass of a million grams or one tonne.
history: Almost half of these were Egyptians, followed by Sudanese and Palestinian immigrants.
history: Policy Press.
history: 1012 minutes (about 1.9 million years) ago, Homo erectus arose in Africa, and early expansions of hominins out of Africa started as archaic humans moved throughout Eurasia.
history: The origin of this symbol is unknown; it may have been produced by modifying a square symbol.
history: In April 2011, Bouteflika promised further constitutional and political reform.
history: Bunson, Margaret.
history: There were originally ninety-nine baladiyat listed for Libya, but by March 2015 that number had grown to 108.
history: 10,000,000,000 is also the fifth power of 100 and also the square of 100,000.
history: He gradually gained their support through preaching the coming of the Mahdi, organized them militarily, and succeeded in overthrowing the Aghlabid dynasty.
history: Furthermore, Bates considered all the Libyan tribes to be a single civilization around 3000 BC united under central Libu and Meshwesh control.
history: The number of Asian migrants before the revolution were just over 100,000 (60,000 Bangladeshis, 20,000 Filipinos, 18,000 Indians, 10,000 Pakistanis, as well as Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, Thai and other workers).
history: It is possible to see the decline in the significance of the land routes to the East as Western Europe opened the ocean routes that bypassed the Middle East and the Mediterranean as parallel to the decline of the Ottoman Empire itself.
history: In retaliation, the Fatimids brought about the migration of thousands from mainly two Arab Qaisi tribes, the Banu Sulaym and Banu Hilal to North Africa.
history: 62,712 primes between 8,000,000 and 9,000,000.
history: Selim had entrusted the pacification of Bedouin tribes and the security of the Hajj pilgrimage route between Damascus and Mecca to the powerful Sunni Muslim Bedouin dynasties of the Beqaa Valley and Jabal Nablus, the Hanash and Tarabay, respectively.
history: From 1894 to 1896, between 100,000 and 300,000 Armenians living throughout the empire were killed in what became known as the Hamidian massacres.
history: Resistance continued in Constantine under Ahmed Bey ben Mohamed Chérif until 1837.
history: The majority of the population of Algeria is ethnically Arab, constituting between 75% and 80% to 85% of the population.
history: The new government led by Mahmud Şevket Pasha with Unionist support withdrew the Ottoman Empire from the ongoing London Peace Conference and resumed the war against the Balkan states to recover Edirne and the rest of Rumelia, but to no avail.
history: He fired two pistol shots, fatally wounding Ferdinand and his wife Sophie.
history: Wilhelm II, in a telegram to Tsar Ferdinand I of Bulgaria described the situation thus: "Disgraceful!
history: The ruling CUP, seeing the potential of Freedom and Accord to win next year's general elections, took several precautions.
history: Two days later the Belgians, French and British attacked around Ypres, and the day after the British at St Quentin in the centre of the line.
history: Burials were held in various locations, particularly in specially-established extramural cemeteries, around fortifications or abandoned churches.
history: In return for signing the Treaty of Hünkâr İskelesi, the Russians sent the expeditionary force which deterred Ibrahim Pasha from marching any further towards Constantinople.
history: At the start of the war, German cruisers were scattered across the globe, some of which were subsequently used to attack Allied merchant shipping.
history: Prince Maximilian of Baden took charge on 3 October as Chancellor of Germany.
history: 1514)
January 25  – Mihrimah Sultan, Sultan Suleiman's daughter (b.
history: "We are a legitimate, civilian government that respects its obligations to the international community, but is committed primarily to its people and has an obligation to protect its citizens," Sarraj said in line with his decision.
history: 44,444,444,444 = repdigit
44,560,482,149 = Markov prime, 29th Pell number
46,656,000,000 = 2160002 = 36003 = 606
history: Artillery has since gradually replaced the use of frontal troops.
history: Abu-Husayn, Abdul-Rahim (1985b).
history: Then the narrative in Genesis 12 shows that God told Abram to leave his country and his kindred, and go to a land that God would show him, and promised to make of him a great nation, bless him, make his name great, bless them that bless him, and curse them who may curse him.
history: The Battle of Nicopolis for the Bulgarian Tsardom of Vidin in 1396, regarded as the last large-scale crusade of the Middle Ages, failed to stop the advance of the victorious Ottomans.
history: The nature of submarine warfare meant that attacks often came without warning, giving the crews of the merchant ships little hope of survival.
history: As a function from the real numbers to the real numbers, the zero function is the only function that is both even and odd.
history: However, it began to rise to reach 25–32 million by 1800, with around 10 million in the European provinces (primarily in the Balkans), 11 million in the Asiatic provinces, and around 3 million in the African provinces.
history: French administration was directed by a staff stationed in Sabha, but it was largely exercised through Fezzan notables of the family of Sayf an Nasr.
history: Yusuf Sayfa may have resisted his dismissal, as according to Duwayhi his territory in Akkar was raided by Ja'far Pasha.
history: The US Navy sent a battleship group to Scapa Flow to join the Grand Fleet, and provided convoy escorts.
history: The Druze lords began making war preparations, allegedly in co-ordination with the local Ottoman authorities, while Bishop Aoun oversaw the distribution of weapons to Maronite peasants.
history: The early reports of the war in Mount Lebanon received in Damascus were generally sketchy but evolved into more graphic reports from Beirut-based newspapers.
history: Moving to reduce Italian influence, in October 1970 all Italian-owned assets were expropriated and the 12,000-strong Italian community was expelled from Libya alongside the smaller community of Italian Libyan Jews.
history: This was a strategic political liquidation designed to appease European powers and prevent a permanent foreign occupation of Lebanon.
history: 'Ali formally abdicated in favour of Hamet, but Yusuf deposed Hamet within several months of the restoration, and ruled as bey of Tripoli during 1795–1832.
history: In scientific notation, it is written as 1010.
history: In February 1977, Libya started delivering military supplies to Goukouni Oueddei and the People's Armed Forces in Chad.
history: However, contrary to British fears of a revolt in India, the outbreak of the war saw a reduction in nationalist activity.
history: The system failed to keep order when the peasants of Keserwan, overburdened by heavy taxes, rebelled against the feudal practices that prevailed in Mount Lebanon.
history: Medical Law International.
history: A new style arose from the 1850s to the First World War, known as trench warfare, which also led to tactical radio.
history: However, major defeats against Christian forces, especially at Las Navas de Tolosa in 1212, and internal divisions led to the empire's collapse.
history: These medieval zeros were used by all future medieval calculators of Easter.
history: At least 250,000 Assyrian Christians, about half of the population, and 350,000–750,000 Anatolian and Pontic Greeks were killed between 1915 and 1922.
history: Before the 1930s, the Senussi Sunni Sufi movement was the primary Islamic movement in Libya.
history: After Abimelech and Phicol headed back to Philistia, Abraham planted a tamarisk grove in Beersheba and called upon "the name of the LORD, the everlasting God".
history: Reproductive Health Matters.
history: A decisive battle is one with political effects, determining the course of the war such as the Battle of Smolensk or bringing hostilities to an end, such as the Battle of Hastings or the Battle of Hattin.
history: To reduce something by one tenth is to decimate.
history: The distinction came into prominence on modern character displays.
history: 2350 BCE,   the older Sumerian curviform numerals were replaced with cuneiform symbols, with 1 and 60 both represented by the same mostly vertical symbol.
history: ISSN 0145-2096.
history: 1650)
August 17
Francesco Albani, Italian painter (d.
history: For example, the decimal number 205 is the sum of two hundreds and five ones, with the 0 digit indicating that no tens are added.
history: The vast majority of Divan poetry was lyric in nature: either gazels (which make up the greatest part of the repertoire of the tradition), or kasîdes.
history: Older men kept long braided beards, while women wore the same robes as men, plaited, decorated hair and both sexes wore heavy jewelry.
history: 2,147,483,648 = 231
2,147,484,609 : Leyland number using 2 and 31 (231 + 312)
2,176,782,336 = 466562 = 12963 = 2164 = 366 = 612
2,179,768,320 : Leyland number using 6 and 12 (612 + 126)
2,214,502,422 : 6th primary pseudoperfect number.
history: The Muslim notable who organized the most concerted effort to reduce tensions was Abd al-Qadir.
history: Eventually, the Ottoman Empire and the European powers furthered the narrative that the conflict of 1860 was caused by the tribal and religious fanaticism, neglecting its underlying roots in the economic, political and social tensions.
history: Hamza also attempted to mediate between the Druze and Christians in Zahle.
history: Albright and G.
history: In the late 1550s the English language had not yet developed a proper name for the flu, despite previous epidemics.
history: By the early 20th century, the colons formed a majority of the population in both Algiers and Oran.
history: Bashir's forces, numbering some 3,000 Druze fighters, launched an assault on Deir al-Qamar on 2 June and another assault the next day.
history: By mid-April, the Capitano della Verga of Mdina had closed the city and successfully managed to prevent the epidemic from reaching its population.
history: Libya lies between latitudes 19° and 34°N, and longitudes 9° and 26°E.
history: Hiyya bar Abba taught that Abraham worked in Teraḥ's idol shop in his youth.
history: In addition to the refugees, large numbers of Christian peasants from Mount Hermon, who had traveled to work in the agricultural plains around Damascus and in the Hauran, were unable to return due to the threat of violence and were stranded in Damascus.
history: about 6.2137 English miles.
history: Coptic Orthodox Christianity, the predominant Christian church of Egypt, is the largest and most historic Christian denomination in Libya.
history: Attempting to explain the epidemic of fevers and respiratory illness affecting the Low Countries, Flemish physician Rembert Dodoens suggested that the mass outbreaks of illness were caused by a dry, hot summer following a very cold winter.
history: In music, a 10 kilohertz sound is a E♭9 in the A440 pitch standard, a bit more than an octave higher in pitch than the highest note on a standard piano.
history: 1648)
August 5 – Charles d'Albert, duc de Luynes, first duke of Chaulnes (d.
history: A peace treaty in 474 brought several decades of stability.
history: However, 'Ali, Hamet and Yusuf Karamanli returned to Tripolitania in January 1794 with the aid of the bey of Tunis, expelled Burghul and reestablished Tripolitania's de facto independence under nominal Ottoman suzerainty.
history: He argues that the descendants of Seth are Aimmah, culminating in the seventh Imam, Nuh/Noah who, in addition to holding the Imamate, would also hold the position of enunciator and prophet (Arabic: نبي, romanized: nabi).
history: "Abortion and Islam: Policies and Practice in the Middle East and North Africa".
history: On 30 March 2014, the General National Congress voted to replace itself with a new House of Representatives.
history: Following the Berber general Tariq ibn Ziyad's conquest of Visigothic Spain in 711, Islam had already spread throughout North Africa, and Berbers actively participated in raids into Europe, reaching as far as Lyon and Autun in France.
history: In modern typefaces, the shape of the character for the digit 1 is typically typeset as a lining figure with an ascender, such that the digit is the same height and width as a capital letter.
history: The Muslims of Damascus held celebrations in the city after the fall of Zahle.
history: About 97% of the population in Libya are Muslims, most of whom belong to the Sunni branch.
history: The revolt is divided into two phases: the first phase took place in western and southern Macedonia and the second in Chalkidiki.
history: The coqueluche of 1510 is considered to be influenza by experts because of its sudden symptoms, explosive spread, and timelines of sickness to recovery.
history: Massawa was claimed by the Ottomans from Medri Bahri during their conquest of Habesh in 1557, but the pandemic's 1559 wave challenged their army's hold onto territory around the city after flu cut down a large number of the Ottoman forces.
history: It won 17 out of 80 seats that were contested by parties; about 60 independents had joined its caucus by 2013.
history: Much of the cuisine of former Ottoman territories today is descended from a shared Ottoman cuisine, especially Turkish, and including Greek, Balkan, Armenian, and Middle Eastern cuisines.
history: The political system was transformed by the destruction of the Janissaries, a powerful military/governmental/police force, which revolted in the Auspicious Incident of 1826.
history: Al-Samman, who was thereafter known as al-sha'al (the fire starter), was joined by his kinsmen, neighbors, friends and passersby, who beat the guards and released the boys.
history: President Wilson was on the verge of cutting off the loans in late 1916 but allowed a great increase in US government lending to the Allies.
history: In 1915, the campaign saw the first use of anti-aircraft warfare after an Austrian plane was shot down with ground-to-air fire, as well as the first medical evacuation by the Serbian army.
history: Female slaves were still sold in the Empire as late as 1908.
history: In 1981, the National Libyan Agricultural Bank provided agricultural credit totaling almost 10,000 loans averaging nearly LD1,500 each.
history: A you return
          B to the ground
               C since (kî ) from it you were taken 
               C' for (kî ) dust you are
          B' and to dust
     A' you will return
history: All divisors are displayed below:
history: Bulgaria on 9 August 1920.
history: New Series.
history: Their rebellion was finally crushed in mid-1916.
history: In 1977, the government established freshwater fish farms in several inshore locations.
history: For Bismarck, peace with Russia was the foundation of German foreign policy, but in 1890, he was forced to retire by Wilhelm II.
history: In February 1916, the Germans attacked French defensive positions at the Battle of Verdun, lasting until December 1916.
history: Austria on 16 July 1920.
history: Historian Ben Kiernan wrote on the French conquest of Algeria: "By 1875, the French conquest was complete.
history: January 7 – Agnes of Solms-Laubach, Landgravine of Hesse-Kassel (d.
history: He led ambitious campaigns deep into the interior, reportedly reaching the Atlantic coast, but faced strong resistance from Byzantine and Berber forces.
history: These communities, alongside internal Arab resettlement, reshaped rural society and land use in ways that reflected broader imperial patterns of demographic engineering and agrarian expansion.
history: The reports were often distorted or amplified in mosques, churches, marketplaces and in neighborhoods throughout the city.
history: The ultimate aim was to increase the state revenues without damaging the prosperity of subjects to prevent the emergence of social disorder and to keep the traditional organisation of the society intact.
history: 3,748,096 = 19362 = 444
3,880,899/2,744,210 ≈ √2
history: Two Ottoman armies were defeated a few weeks later at the Battle of Mughar Ridge and, early in December, Jerusalem had been captured following another Ottoman defeat at the Battle of Jerusalem.
history: Starvation caused by famine killed approximately 100,000 people in Lebanon.
history: Al-Atrash's men had attacked several Christian villages in the Anti-Lebanon Mountains on their way to Rashaya.
history: Although the Savior Officers had succeeded in making sure that the Great Cabinet was free of CUP members, the CUP's domination of the Chamber of Deputies had not changed.
history: However, in the village of Kafr Bir'im near Safad, three Christians were killed by Druze and Shia Muslim raiders, while the mixed village of al-Bassa was also plundered.
history: On occasion, the valide sultan became involved in state politics.
history: After a period of civil war in the Muslim world, a second wave began around 665–689.
history: In Eastern Orthodox art, the visit is the chief means by which the Trinity is pictured (example).
history: The atmosphere in the city remained tense for weeks after the riots and even after most of the Christian inhabitants had fled to Beirut.
history: Members of the aristocratic class sensed danger as the disease continued to spread and fled the city: "The plague is so sore that none of worth stay about these places" remarked one contemporary.
history: The outcome at Zahle held enormous significance for both sides in the war.
history: During the celebration, however, Sarah found Ishmael mocking; an observation that would begin to clarify the birthright of Isaac.
history: On 24 September, the Supreme Army Command informed the leaders in Berlin that armistice talks were inevitable.
history: Ptolemy used it many times in his Almagest (VI.8) for the magnitude of solar and lunar eclipses.
history: Racing (fantasia) and rifle shooting are part of cultural recreation of the Algerians.
history: doi:10.1163/157005867X00029.
history: In Giuseppe Peano's original formulation of the Peano axioms, a set of postulates to define the natural numbers in a precise and logical way, 1 was treated as the starting point of the sequence of natural numbers.
history: The German colonial forces in German East Africa, led by Colonel Paul von Lettow-Vorbeck, fought a guerrilla warfare campaign and only surrendered two weeks after the armistice took effect in Europe.
history: This dish is commonly served at traditional weddings or festivities.
history: Since Germany and Austria-Hungary relied on faster mobilisation to compensate for their numerical inferiority compared to Russia, the threat posed by the closing of this gap was more important than competing with the Royal Navy.
history: Fixed-wing aircraft were initially used for reconnaissance and ground attack.
history: In February 2015, neighbouring Egypt launched airstrikes against IS in support of the Tobruk government.
history: At first, the Druzes sought out and murdered 17 Shihabi men, including Emir Sa'ad al-Din, who was decapitated and thrown off the three-story building's rooftop.
history: Between 1915 and 1926, an epidemic of encephalitis lethargica affected nearly 5 million people worldwide.
history: The Justice and Construction Party, affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood, has done less well in Libya than similar parties in Egypt and Tunisia.
history: It was a startling, if mostly symbolic, blow to the image of Ottoman invincibility, an image which the victory of the Knights of Malta over the Ottoman invaders in the 1565 siege of Malta had recently set about eroding.
history: Bey al-Kursi "Bey of the Throne", a term equivalent to reigning prince.
history: Aircraft carriers have since become the central unit in naval warfare, acting as a mobile base for lethal aircraft.
history: Libya was once the home of one of the oldest Jewish communities in the world, dating back to at least 300 BC.
history: The modern use of 0 in this manner derives from Indian mathematics that was transmitted to Europe via medieval Islamic mathematicians and popularized by Fibonacci.
history: In 1961-63, government loans to buy land from Italian settlers, encouraged them to purchase land for recreation rather than farming, thereby inflating values and reducing production.
history: Libya is included in the European Union's European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP), which aims at bringing the EU and its neighbours closer.
history: Although the Arab Libyans traditionally lived nomadic Bedouin lifestyles in tents, they have predominately settled in towns and cities.
history: The Ottoman sultan Selim I largely preserved the Mamluk governing structures and officials of the region.
history: Additionally, 47,000 Libyan nationals were internally displaced and 46,570 were internally displaced returnees.
history: As of 2012 hundreds of TV stations have begun to air due to the collapse of censorship from the old regime and the initiation of "free media".
history: In their number philosophy, where odd numbers were considered male and even numbers female, 1 was considered neutral capable of transforming even numbers to odd and vice versa by addition.
history: Another account claimed that Enver Bey had tried to stop Yakup Cemil from killing Nazım Pasha, but Yakup Cemil had refused to listen.
history: This contributed to problems of indiscipline and outright rebelliousness within the corps, which were never fully solved.
history: Some battles are named for the convenience of military historians so that periods of combat can be neatly distinguished from one another.
history: The Order maintained the power to declare an epidemic, while any doctors not affiliated with the church could only advise on the subject.
history: By 1917, indirect fire with guns (as well as mortars and even machine guns) was commonplace, using new techniques for spotting and ranging, notably, aircraft and the field telephone.
history: 1323/4), which was unparalleled in both Europe (e.g., the male line of the House of Habsburg became extinct in 1740) and in the Islamic world.
history: They conquered Sijilmasa, Fez, much of western and central Algeria (including Tlemcen, Oran, and Algiers in 1082), and defeated the Ghana Empire in the south.
history: On 8 June Christians from Dahr al-Ahmar and the vicinity fled to Rashaya, which had an Ottoman garrison, for protection.
history: Ahmad's successors proved to be less capable than himself, preventing the state from ever achieving the brief golden ages of its Barbary neighbors, such as Algiers or Tunis.
history: While the Ottoman authorities pursued a divide-and-rule strategy, various European powers established alliances with the various religious groups in the region.
history: In the spring of 1916, the Austro-Hungarians counterattacked in Asiago in the Strafexpedition, but made little progress and were pushed by the Italians back to Tyrol.
history: Plague is caused by microbes in rats, which spread to humans through infected fleas from the rats.
history: Libya is bounded to the north by the Mediterranean Sea, the northwest by Tunisia, the west by Algeria, the southwest by Niger, the south by Chad, the southeast by Sudan, and the east by Egypt, as well as maritime borders with Greece, Italy and Malta to the north.
history: Myanmar's (Burma's) Ks.10,000/- banknote.
history: The Freedom and Accord Party (Liberal Union/Entente) was founded on 21 November 1911 by those in opposition to the CUP, and immediately attracted 70 Deputies to its ranks.
history: The Ottomans had already wrested control of nearly all former Byzantine lands surrounding the city, but the strong defence of Constantinople's strategic position on the Bosporus Strait made it difficult to conquer.
history: Agriculture achievements in 20 years.
history: Churchwardens and curates were instructed to tell parishioners staying with those sick with plague not to come to church until several weeks after they recover.
history: Romania would unite all Romanian-speaking people under a single state, leading to Greater Romania.
history: They used hieroglyphs for the digits and were not positional.
history: The rebellion was suppressed by Janbirdi, who arrested and executed Nasir al-Din and captured the latter's Druze allies, the chiefs Qurqumaz, Zayn al-Din and Alam al-Din Sulayman from the Chouf-based Ma'n family and Sharaf al-Din Yahya of the Gharb-based Tanukh-Buhtur family.
history: Geography: more than 90% of the country is desert or semidesert.
history: The first-level administration subdivisions, the governorates (muhafazat), have yet to be created due to a vested interest in maintaining decentralized governance, and the continuing civil war.
history: At some stage the oral traditions became part of the written tradition of the Pentateuch; a majority of scholars believe this stage belongs to the Persian period, roughly 520–320 BCE.
history: King Idris's devout Muslim piety, which solidified his support among the Bedouin population, clashed with the modernising and urban intellectual currents in Libya.
history: In addition, political campaigns must be exempt from the aforementioned subjects.
history: By the time the Ottoman Empire came to an end in 1922, half of the urban population of Turkey was descended from Muslim refugees from Russia.
history: In 1592, the Infermeria delle Schiavi of Birgu, a hospital for galley slaves which had previously housed the Sacra Infermeria before its transfer to Valletta in 1575, was converted into an isolation hospital.
history: In 909, he captured Kairouan and prepared the ground for the Fatimid state.
history: The Serbs suffered defeat in the Battle of Kosovo.
history: By the end of Suleiman's reign, the Empire spanned approximately 877,888 mi2 (2,273,720 km2), extending over three continents.
history: Libya was an early centre of Christianity.
history: Libya has traditionally relied on unsustainably high levels of public sector hiring to create employment.
history: Karatasos had disembarked in Sithonia in April 1854 with 500 irregulars.
history: One million dollar bills have a mass of 1 megagram (1,000 kg; 2,200 lb) or 1 tonne (just over 1 short ton).
history: (Augustine's idea was based on the ancient world's ideas on biology, according to which male sperm contained the entire unborn baby, the mother's womb being no more than a nurturing chamber in which it grew.)
history: Shibli eventually fled to Baalbek, but forced into hiding, he finally surrendered to the Egyptians.
history: An epidemic of a flu-like illness is recorded for September 1557 in Portuguese Goa.
history: It is not well understood how the early Ottomans came to dominate their neighbours, due to the lack of sources surviving.
history: In order theory (and especially its subfield lattice theory), 0 may denote the least element of a lattice or other partially ordered set.
history: February 12 – Mohammad Khodabanda, older brother of the late Shah Ismail II, begins his reign as the new Shah of Persia (now Iran) after entering the Persian capital at Qazvin, after removing his sister Pari Khan Khanum, who had exercised regal authority after Ismail's death.
history: Using his status as a hero of Muslim resistance against the French in Algeria, he commenced diplomatic efforts and met with nearly every leader of the Muslim community in Damascus and its environs, from ulema (scholars), aghas (local paramilitary commanders) and mukhtars (village headmen).
history: With German reinforcements and new American troops pouring in, the outcome was to be decided on the Western Front.
history: I pursued my study in depth and learned the give-and-take of disputation.
history: As per the reporting, both the nations sent large-scale military cargo planes to Libya in support of their respective parties.
history: It was the second such razing of a Sufi site in two days.
history: The Libyan Desert, despite its extreme conditions, supports a variety of adapted wildlife, mostly found near oases, rocky areas, and occasional rain zones.
history: He gave her bread and water and sent them away.
history: After the loss of innocence, God curses Adam and the earth as punishment for his disobedience.
history: By 1819, the various treaties of the Napoleonic Wars had forced the Barbary states to give up piracy almost entirely, and Tripolitania's economy began to crumble.
history: Most of Algeria's weapons are imported from Russia, with whom they are a close ally.
history: I.B.Tauris.
history: 8) man to the rally of men instead.
history: At the end of the third year of secondary school, students pass the exam of the baccalaureate, which allows once it is successful to pursue graduate studies in universities and institutes.
history: 1,000,000,000 ("one billion" on the short scale; "one milliard" on the long scale; one thousand million) is the natural number following 999,999,999 and preceding 1,000,000,001.
history: It has a total of 25 divisors, whose geometric mean is a whole number, 100 (the number of primes below this value is 25).
history: The British in the naval Battle of Trafalgar owed its success to the reputation of Admiral Lord Nelson.
history: 55,555,555,555 = repdigit
56,800,235,584 = 2383282 = 38443 = 626
history: This is normally repeated a second time (for the second glass of tea), and in the third round of tea, it is served with roasted peanuts or roasted almonds known as shay bi'l-luz (mixed with the tea in the same glass).
history: Since the Neolithic, the climate of North Africa has become drier over time.
history: In December 2016, the Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Monitor issued a report regarding violation of media freedom in Algeria.
history: During the last week of October, declarations of independence were made in Budapest, Prague, and Zagreb.
history: The empire underwent a series of transformations of its political and military institutions in response to these challenges, enabling it to successfully adapt to the new conditions of the 17th century and remain powerful, both militarily and economically.
history: However, the Ottoman court system lacked an appellate structure, leading to jurisdictional case strategies where plaintiffs could take their disputes from one court system to another until they achieved a ruling that was in their favour.
history: Subtraction: x − 0 = x and 0 − x = −x.
history: When used aggressively, it is an offensive term.
history: From 1977 onward, per capita income in the country rose to more than US$11,000, the fifth-highest in Africa, while the Human Development Index became the highest in Africa and greater than that of Saudi Arabia.
history: Wilson demanded a constitutional monarchy and parliamentary control over the German military.
history: 900 suspected and confirmed cases were sent there, and they were kept separate from each other.
history: In East Africa, Iyasu V of Ethiopia was supporting the Dervish state who were at war with the British in the Somaliland campaign.
history: Dates are harvested, dried and can be eaten as they are, made into syrup or slightly fried and eaten with bsisa and milk.
history: Under the terms of the treaty, Romania ceded territory to Austria-Hungary and Bulgaria and leased its oil reserves to Germany.
history: Turks used carpets, rugs, and kilims not just on the floors of a room but also as a hanging on walls and doorways, where they provided additional insulation.
history: Following the Young Turk Revolution in 1908, the Committee of Union and Progress sought to develop a strong Ottoman naval force.
history: During his brief majority reign, Murad IV (1623–1640) reasserted central authority and recaptured Iraq (1639) from the Safavids.
history: Following the First World War, the British Battles Nomenclature Committee was formed to decide on standard names for all battles and subsidiary actions.
history: In 1559 the Ottoman Empire struggled with a severe wave of influenza: After the deaths of Emperor Gelawdewos and most of the Portuguese attaché in battle, the flu killed thousands of the Ottoman army's troops occupying the port city of Massawa.
history: By the time the Vandals ended Roman control in 429 AD, most of Algeria had returned to Berber tribal rule.
history: Although casualties among the Christian militiamen were relatively low during the fighting on 30 May, in the renewed battle on 31 May, the 200-strong Maronite force was routed at Beit Mery and forced to retreat to Brummana.
history: Conscription was common in most European countries, but was controversial in English-speaking countries.
history: To avoid violating Belgian neutrality, he was told any advance could come only after a German invasion.
history: 1606)
Francis Manners, 6th Earl of Rutland (d.
history: Additionally, it is widely used in the naming customs of Central Asia, namely in countries such as Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
history: In the last days of May, Druze forces under the command of Bashir Nakad and backed by the Imad and Jumblatt clans besieged Deir al-Qamar.
history: Between 1783 and 1913, approximately 5–7 million refugees arrived into the Ottoman Empire.
history: In Indian English and Pakistani English, it is also expressed as 10 lakh.
history: However, neither of them interpreted it as an admission of war guilt.
history: The Ottoman Ministry of Post was established in Istanbul in 1840.
history: The treaty ceded vast territories, including Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and parts of Poland and Ukraine to the Central Powers.
history: As coffeehouses appeared in cities and towns across the empire, Cairo developed into a major centre for its trade, contributing to its continued prosperity throughout the seventeenth and much of the 18th century.
history: There are no railway services in Libya, but these are planned for construction in the near future (see rail transport in Libya).
history: The Bodleian Library reported radiocarbon dating results for six folio from the manuscript, indicating that they came from different centuries, but date the manuscript to AD 799 – 1102.
history: Within the country, numerous ethnic minorities were present: 16.1% Romanians, 10.5% Slovaks, 10.4% Germans, 2.5% Ruthenians, 2.5% Serbs, and 8% others.
history: In early June, the French and Belgian consuls of Damascus reported news of decisive Christian victories and the arrival of Druze reinforcements from the Hauran and Damascus.
history: Until the advent of artillery and aircraft, battles were fought with the two sides within sight, if not reach, of each other.
history: Some of the Muslims were wounded and the Christian shooters were killed.
history: The plague lasted for eight months, and it receded in August.
history: In the provinces, several different kinds of folk music were created.
history: According to Christianity, Adam sinned in the Garden of Eden by eating from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
history: 1668)
Benedetto Castelli, Italian scientist (d.
history: In Emilia-Romagna, Tommasino de' Bianchi recorded the recovery of Modena's first cases on 13 July 1510, writing that in the city "there appears an illness that lasts three days with a great fever, and headache and then they rise...
history: To the north, the Tell Atlas forms with the Saharan Atlas, further south, two parallel sets of reliefs in approaching eastbound, and between which are inserted vast plains and highlands.
history: It also included a second amnesty initiative, the Charter for Peace and National Reconciliation, which was approved in a referendum in September 2005.
history: Linguistically, in English, "one" is a determiner for singular nouns and a gender-neutral pronoun.
history: Population densities were higher in the European provinces, double those in Anatolia, which in turn were triple the population densities of Iraq and Syria and five times the population density of Arabia.
history: Anatolia's status was problematic given the occupied forces.
history: In Gallipoli, the Ottoman Empire successfully repelled the British, French, and Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZACs).
history: On 1 September 1969, a group of rebel military officers led by Muammar Gaddafi launched a coup d'état against King Idris, which became known as the Al Fateh Revolution.
history: During this period, 190 cases of abortion-related death occurred.
history: The tolerance displayed by the Turks was welcomed by the immigrants.
history: The disease appeared in the Three Cities, starting from Senglea on 14 February, followed by Cospicua on 8 March and Birgu on 11 March.
history: Petrodollars provided urban employment, resulting in higher rural migration.
history: Another opposition leader Prince Sabahaddin, who had backed the Savior Officers against the CUP, fled to western Switzerland, where he would remain until 1919.
history: The 1557 flu saw governments, for possibly the first time, inviting physicians to instill bureaucratic organization into epidemic responses.
history: Poulkar's was the most severely affected parish, having large quantities of fruit merchandise and filth in the lanes attracting rats.
history: Ottoman rule continued until the Italo-Turkish War in 1911, which resulted in Italy occupying Libya and establishing two colonies: Italian Tripolitania and Italian Cyrenaica, later unified in the Italian Libya colony from 1934 to 1943.
history: With the Bulgarian demand for the cession of the former Ottoman capital city of Adrianople (today, and in Turkish at the time, known as Edirne) looming and the outrage among the Turkish populace as well as the CUP leadership, the CUP carried out the coup on January 23, 1913.
history: The lead body is the Imperial War Museum.
history: 1610)
Ambrose Rookwood, English Gunpowder Plot conspirator (d.
history: At least 20,136 people in London and surrounding parishes were recorded to have died of plague during the outbreak.
history: After the coup, Rémond said, he found the capital Constantinople to be quiet and devoid of public opinion, whether about the coup or the ongoing First Balkan War, noting an air of "indifference" among not only the populace, but the statesmen involved themselves.
history: Hanan bar Rava taught in Abba Arikha's name that Abraham's mother was named ʾĂmatlaʾy bat Karnebo.
history: The animals that used to live there have all disappeared, hunted when they are edible or released when they are not," explains zoologist Khaled Ettaieb.
history: France and the Ottoman Empire, united by mutual opposition to Habsburg rule, became allies.
history: From 1557 to 1559 the nation's population contracted by 2%.
history: The Druze men were quickly released by the Ottomans after protests by the local Druze community.
history: It is a common metric used in macroeconomics when describing national economies.
history: However, communications problems and questionable command decisions cost Germany the chance of a decisive outcome, while it had failed to achieve the primary objective of avoiding a long, two-front war.
history: The Europeans all thought that the empire was a sick man in rapid decline.
history: The shipyard at Barrow, England, built its first submarine in 1886 for the Ottoman Empire.
history: Soon, the Druze of Mount Lebanon began streaming to join the rebel ranks, and from April it seemed the rebellion incorporated the entire Druze community.
history: The Latin author Apuleius was born in Madaurus (Mdaourouch), in what later became Algeria.
history: The first plague of Stuart England disrupted the coronation of James I, which contemporaries found foreboding for the new king's reign.
history: The angry crowds consequently dispersed and calm was restored to Beirut.
history: Mohamed al-Menfi, a former ambassador to Greece, became head of the Presidential Council.
history: If consular records prior to the revolution are used to estimate the immigrant population, as many as 2 million Egyptian migrants were recorded by the Egyptian embassy in Tripoli in 2009, followed by 87,200 Tunisians, and 68,200 Moroccans by their respective embassies.
history: That afternoon, the Russian government were handed a note requiring them to "cease all war measures against Germany and Austria-Hungary" within 12 hours.
history: Tree of Souls: The Mythology of Judaism.
history: ISSN 1468-0289.
history: On 24 October, the Italians began a push that rapidly recovered territory lost after the Battle of Caporetto.
history: The expression ⁠0/0⁠, which may be obtained in an attempt to determine the limit of an expression of the form ⁠f(x)/g(x)⁠ as a result of applying the lim operator independently to both operands of the fraction, is a so-called "indeterminate form".
history: When the disease appeared in the other Grand Harbour settlements, similar restrictions on movement were imposed and through these measures the outbreak was successfully contained.
history: These reforms, alongside European intervention and local political mobilization, contributed to the transformation of an older order based primarily on rank into a political system increasingly structured around sectarian representation.
history: Eventually his mother found a wife for Ishmael from her home country, the land of Egypt.
history: In the Sahara region, some oases have palm trees.
history: The statement and prayer, "ever victorious", was also present in most.
history: After the First Battle of the Marne in September 1914, Allied and German forces unsuccessfully tried to outflank each other, a series of manoeuvres later known as the "Race to the Sea".
history: Some people disputed the cause of the disease, and the doctor Giuseppe del Cosso insisted that it was not plague but a malignant pricking disease.
history: Governor Solomon defeated them and reinforced control through an extensive fortification program, but he was killed in battle near Tebessa in 543.
history: Frightened, Sarah denied laughing.
history: The Germans felt they had been unjustly dealt with by what they called the "diktat of Versailles".
history: Jefferson responded by ordering the US Navy into the Mediterranean, successfully blockading Tripolitania's harbors in 1803.
history: The modern state took its name from the Regency of Algiers, the Ottoman polity established in the central Maghreb during the early 16th century.
history: The empire's annual income quadrupled between 1523 and 1748, adjusted for inflation.
history: 86,267,571,272 = 54th Fibonacci number.
history: The US Senate did not ratify the treaty despite public support for it,and did not formally end its involvement in the war until the Knox–Porter Resolution was signed on 2 July 1921 by President Warren G.
history: On 29 October, the imperial authorities asked Italy for an armistice, but the Italians continued advancing, reaching Trento, Udine, and Trieste.
history: An American airstrike led by then U.S.
history: Islam regards ʾIbrāhīm (Abraham) as a link in the chain of prophets that begins with Adam and culminates in Muhammad via ʾIsmāʿīl (Ishmael).
history: Ottoman Text Archive Project Archived 19 May 2024 at the Wayback Machine
Ottoman and Turkish Studies Resources – University of Michigan
Historians of the Ottoman Empire Archived 9 July 2025 at the Wayback Machine – University of Chicago
Turkey in Asia, 1920
history: Messali Hadj's MNA (resulting in bloody fratricidal massacres like Mélouza), and tensions between "internal" and "external" FLN forces.
history: Abdul Hamid II was so fearful of a coup that he did not allow his army to conduct war games, lest this serve as cover for a coup, but he did see the need for military mobilisation.
history: Provincial Leaderships in Syria, 1575–1650.
history: The financial burden of the Medrese was supported by vakifs, allowing children of poor families to move to higher social levels and income.
history: Media related to Adam (Biblical figure) at Wikimedia Commons
 Quotations related to Adam at Wikiquote
history: Byzantine territories, where the initial Ottoman conquests were carried out, were exhausted demographically and militarily due to the plague, which facilitated Ottoman expansion.
history: 109 metres (called a gigametre) is almost three times the distance from the Earth to the Moon.
history: After God heard the boy's voice, an angel of the Lord confirmed to Hagar that he would become a great nation, and will be "living on his sword".
history: 1548), al-Hasan al-Burini (d.
history: Soon after, the stories were replaced by more accurate reports of decisive Druze victories and massacres against the Christians.
history: The human cost was immense, Historians, like Alistair Horne and Raymond Aron, state that the actual number of Algerian Muslim war dead was far greater than the original FLN and official French estimates but was less than the 1 million deaths claimed by the Algerian government after independence.
history: Arkenu and Western Uweinat are ring complexes very similar to those in the Aïr Mountains.
history: Another important use of aircraft came with the development of the helicopter, which first became heavily used during the Vietnam War, and still continues to be widely used today to transport and augment ground forces.
history: The 1919 Treaty of Versailles dealt with Germany and, building on Wilson's 14th point, established the League of Nations on 28 June 1919.
history: After 1565, administrative authority in Tripoli was vested in a Pasha directly appointed by the Sultan in Constantinople.
history: Personal effects of battle range from mild psychological issues to permanent and crippling injuries.
history: Ten is the base of decimal numeral systems, the most common systems for denoting numbers in both spoken and written language.
history: It was an Oghuz Turkic language highly influenced by Persian and Arabic, though lower registries spoken by the common people had fewer influences from other languages compared to higher varieties used by upper classes and governmental authorities.
history: This diversity was, in part, due to Tanzimat writers' wish to disseminate as much of the new literature as possible, in the hopes that it would contribute to a revitalisation of Ottoman social structures.
history: The beylerbey of Damascus, Khurram Pasha, launched a punitive expedition against the Chouf Druze led by the Ma'nid chiefs in 1523.
history: In a moment of despair, she burst into tears.
history: Air battles have been far less common, due to their late conception, the most prominent being the Battle of Britain in 1940.
history: Among them "Committee of Union and Progress", and "Freedom and Accord Party" were major parties.
history: Queen Mary and Archbishop of Canterbury Reginald Pole, who had both been in poor health before flu broke out in London, likely died of influenza within 12 hours of each other on 17 November 1558.
history: Among the clergy, the dead included a Knight Grand Cross, 8 other knights, 10 parish priests, 1 canon, 95 other priests and 34 monks.
history: The important port of Thessaloniki was captured from the Venetians in 1387 and sacked.
history: Mussolini formed the pro-interventionist Il Popolo d'Italia and the Fasci Rivoluzionario d'Azione Internazionalista ("Revolutionary Fasci for International Action") in October 1914 that later developed into the Fasci Italiani di Combattimento in 1919, the origin of fascism.
history: Herodotus divided them into Eastern Libyans and Western Libyans.
history: Even more controversially, the court also reinstated Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, a son of the former dictator, as a presidential candidate.
history: Occasionally Yersinia pestis was transmitted to human society by infectious contact with the fleas of wild animals, with disastrous results for trade, farming, and social life.
history: 1510)
March 7 – Margaret Douglas, Countess of Lennox (b.
history: There are a few scattered uninhabited small oases, usually linked to the major depressions, where water can be found by digging to a few feet in depth.
history: International Social Work.
history: Thus began the first Egyptian–Ottoman War (1831–1833), during which the French-trained army of Muhammad Ali, under the command of his son Ibrahim Pasha, defeated the Ottoman Army as it marched into Anatolia, reaching the city of Kütahya within 320 km (200 mi) of the capital, Constantinople.
history: Sarai responded by mistreating Hagar, and Hagar fled into the wilderness.
history: Palestine, Iraq, Lebanon and Syria became British and French mandates.
history: The Algerian national football team, known as the Desert Foxes, has a strong fan base and has achieved success both domestically and internationally.
history: The earliest conflicts began during the Byzantine–Ottoman wars, waged in Anatolia in the late 13th century before entering Europe in the mid-14th century, followed by the Bulgarian–Ottoman wars and the Serbian–Ottoman wars in the mid-14th century.
history: ISBN 9781851096589.
history: The British government budgeted substantial resources to the commemoration of the war during the period 2014 to 2018.
history: On 2 July, protesters stormed the parliament building in Tobruk and lit fires.
history: Representatives of the European powers proposed to the sultan that Mount Lebanon be partitioned into Christian and Druze sections.
history: The Company of Parish Clerks began regularly keeping and publishing records of plague mortality on 21 December 1592.
history: In the 17th century, a permanent Lazzaretto was built on the Isolotto, on the site of the temporary plague hospital of 1592–1593.
history: Ahmed or Ahmed Karamanli or Qaramanli or al-Qaramanli, (most commonly Ahmed Karamanli) (1686–1745) was an Ottoman official of Janissary background.
history: In Western Macedonia, Ziakas united with rebel bands from Kozani, Siatista and Samarina and took control of the western Pindus and attacked the area of Grevena.
history: The 1676 peace treaty between Tripoli and English shipping had shifted most pirate activity towards the French, leading to French demands for peace in 1681.
history: Turkish direct investments have accelerated in Algeria, with total value reaching $5 billion.
history: The Almoravids strengthened Maliki Islam and brought Andalusian cultural influence to the Maghreb, but their rigid legalism later contributed to their downfall.
history: In March, the father of a Catholic monastery in Aammiq was murdered and the monastery looted, and soon, a Druze man from Ainab allegedly murdered a Christian man from Abadiyeh.
history: The computing performance of 1012 floating point operations per second (teraFLOPS) is known as terascale computing.
history: Under the terms of the 1947 peace treaty with the Allies, Italy, which hoped to maintain the colony of Tripolitania, (and France, which wanted the Fezzan), relinquished all claims to Libya.
history: Famous examples include the Wars of the Roses, as well as the Jacobite risings.
history: In 1539, a 60,000-strong Ottoman army besieged the Spanish garrison of Castelnuovo on the Adriatic coast; the successful siege cost the Ottomans 8,000 casualties, but Venice agreed to terms in 1540, surrendering most of its empire in the Aegean and the Morea.
history: An army that can trust the commands of their leaders with conviction in its success invariably has a higher morale than an army that doubts its every move.
history: On the eastern side, Cyrenaica's first Christian communities were established by the time of the Emperor Claudius.
history: Occasionally battles are named after the date on which they took place, such as The Glorious First of June.
history: As part of the Africa Nova province, Tripolitania was prosperous, and reached a golden age in the 2nd and 3rd centuries, when the city of Leptis Magna, home to the Severan dynasty, was at its height.
history: Oil extraction facilities were nationalised.
history: Tensions increased after the 1911–1912 Italo-Turkish War demonstrated Ottoman weakness and led to the formation of the Balkan League, an alliance of Serbia, Bulgaria, Montenegro, and Greece.
history: A group transporting the spoils of a Spanish carrack from Dartmouth couldn't get further than Greenwich due to the outbreak in London and news of the plague had spread regionally.
history: The outbreak finally ended by September 1593.
history: 10,460,353,203 = 21873 = 277 = 321
10,460,362,464 = Leyland number using 3 & 21 (321 + 213)
10,480,142,147 = 16th Bell number.
history: Under the deal between Algeria's Sonatrach and Italy's Eni, Algeria will send an additional 9 billion cubic metres of gas to Italy by next year and in 2024.
history: The Grand Senussi established his headquarters in the oasis town of Jaghbub while his ikhwan (brothers) set up zawiyas (religious colleges or monasteries) across North Africa and brought some stability to regions not known for their submission to central authority.
history: Major areas of conflict included Europe and the Middle East, as well as parts of Africa and the Asia-Pacific.
history: In many of these languages, it often denotes a very large but indefinite number.
history: The rebellions were highly violent on both sides, but by the time the Janissaries were suppressed, it was far too late for Ottoman military power to catch up with the West.
history: Energy Information Administration reported that in 2005, Algeria had 4.5 trillion cubic metres (160×10^12 cu ft) of proven natural gas reserves.
history: The portion of the Mediterranean Sea north of Libya is often called the Libyan Sea.
history: In the 1975–76 academic year the number of university students was estimated to be 13,418.
history: By September, the Germans had fallen back to the Hindenburg Line.
history: France was to supply half of that number, and other countries were to send supplementary forces as needed.
history: Thus 1557's epidemic was either described as a "plague" (like many epidemics with notable mortality), "ague" (most generally) or "new disease" in England.
history: It is known as 10 kharab, 1000 arab, or 1 lakh crore in the Indian numbering system.
history: On 20 August 2023, the bank officially announced the completion of its reunification under Elkaber and his deputy in the east, Maree Raheel.
history: The non-military diplomatic and propaganda interactions among the nations were designed to build support for the cause or to undermine support for the enemy.
history: doi:10.1332/policypress/9781447340430.001.0001.
history: In January 1859, an armed uprising, led by Shahin, was launched against the Maronite Khazen muqata'jis (feudal lords) of Keserwan.
history: The Karamanli dynasty would end a century later as the Ottomans retook control.
history: According to Mishaqah, the anger towards the refugees by "ignorant" Damascene Druze and Muslims grew in the aftermath of the Druze victories.
history: Ottoman dynastic patronage was concentrated in the historic capitals of Bursa, Edirne, and Istanbul (Constantinople), as well as in several other important administrative centres such as Amasya and Manisa.
history: Zayyanid rulers actively supported learning by constructing mosques and madrasas, turning their capital into an important theological and intellectual hub.
history: During World War I, the primary use was for reconnaissance, and small-scale bombardment.
history: Virgil speaks of the Libyans in this way: "The surrounding lands are Libyan, a race unbeatable in war."
After the Egyptians, the Greeks, Romans, and Byzantines mentioned various other tribes in Libya.
history: Czechoslovakia, combining the Kingdom of Bohemia with parts of the Kingdom of Hungary, became a new nation.
history: Bey al-Mahalla "Bey of the Camp", title used for the next most senior member of the Beylical family after the reigning Bey, the Heir Apparent to the throne.
history: When the outbreak occurred, it was initially mistaken to be a venereal disease.
history: The last cholera outbreak in the United States was in 1910–1911 when the steamship Moltke brought infected people to New York City from Naples.
history: The Nail Men were a German example.
history: According to the Islamic creation myth, he was the first prophet of Islam and the first Muslim.
history: He is a recognized authority on the history of Ottoman Syria, with emphasis on the areas later constituting modern Lebanon.
history: World War I, or the First World War (28 July 1914 – 11 November 1918), also known as the Great War, was a global conflict between two coalitions: the Allies (or Entente) and the Central Powers.
history: The Ottoman Islamic legal system was set up differently from traditional European courts.
history: The new jamahiriya (Arab for "republic") governance structure he established was officially referred to as "direct democracy".
history: Influenza-like illnesses had been documented in Europe since at least Charlemagne, with 1357's outbreak the first to be called influenza, but the 1510 flu pandemic is the first to be pathologically described following communication advances brought about by the printing press.
history: Şerafeddin Sabuncuoğlu was the author of the first surgical atlas and the last major medical encyclopaedia from the Islamic world.
history: Horne estimated Algerian casualties during the span of eight years to be around 700,000.
history: Other styles have an individualistic conception of the human condition.
history: Isaac carried the wood upon which he would be sacrificed.
history: Kâmil Pasha was replaced as Grand Vizier and Nazım Pasha as Minister of War by Mahmud Shevket Pasha, who took both posts.
history: Members of the community had to pretend to be of the Sunni Muslim faith to attain any official post, were occasionally forced to pay the jizya (poll tax) reserved for Christians and Jews, and were the target of condemnatory treatises and fatwas (edicts) by the ulema of Damascus.
history: About 150 took refuge in the government house and set up barricades on the streets leading to the building as additional security measures.
history: Under the strategic plan known as Hypothesis Z, the Romanian army planned an offensive into Transylvania, while defending Southern Dobruja and Giurgiu against a possible Bulgarian counterattack.
history: Under King Genseric, the Vandal Kingdom successfully defended Carthage against two Byzantine expeditions from Constantinople in 460 and 468.
history: Ottoman Divan poetry was a highly ritualised and symbolic art form.
history: Following international pressure and the arrival of French troops, the Ottoman state executed its own military commander, Ahmed Pasha, for his "criminal negligence" and complicity in the 1860 massacres.
history: Barbary was not always a unified political entity.
history: In the Armenian Melikdoms of Karabakh, the younger brothers and sons of the meliks (local rulers) were addressed as bek, which was placed after their given names.
history: Several sports have specific words for a score of zero, such as "love" in tennis – possibly from French l'œuf, "the egg" – and "duck" in cricket, a shortening of "duck's egg".
history: Libya has been inhabited by Berbers since the late Bronze Age as descendants from Iberomaurusian and Capsian cultures.
history: In the early 18th century, the Ottoman Empire was losing its grip on its North African holdings, including Tripoli.
history: 10,000 hertz, 10 kilohertz, or 10 kHz of the radio frequency spectrum falls in the very low frequency or VLF band and has a wavelength of 30 kilometres.
history: The epidemic spread to Europe via Punjab, Afghanistan, Persia, and southern Russia.
history: Though the sultan was the supreme monarch, the sultan's political and executive authority was delegated.
history: Pope Julius II attributed the outbreaks in Rome and the Holy See to God's wrath.
history: In the Ottoman Empire, illuminated and illustrated manuscripts were commissioned by the Sultan or the administrators of the court.
history: Leiden and Boston: Brill.
history: Minutes of immersion was also a continuous function ⁠1/12⁠ 31′20″ √d(24−d) (a triangular pulse with convex sides), where d was the digit function and 31′20″ was the sum of the radii of the Sun's and Moon's discs.
history: Queen Elizabeth's government gave new orders on 30 September that all houses with infected individuals should have their doors and windows boarded up and that no person inside shall make contact with persons outside for 40 days.
history: Firstly, Abimelech, supported by Phicol, the chief of his troops, secures from the patriarch an agreement that he will act honestly in his dealings with Abimelech and his descendants, reciprocating the manner in which Abimelech says he has treated Abraham.
history: Digitised data is represented in physical devices, such as computers, as pulses of electricity through switching devices such as transistors or logic gates where "1" represents the value for "on".
history: The largest of these are the Kabyles, who live in the Kabylie region east of Algiers, the Chaoui of Northeast Algeria, the Tuaregs in the southern desert and the Shenwa people of North Algeria.
history: By the beginning of the 21st century, archaeologists had stopped trying to recover any context that would make Abraham, Isaac or Jacob credible historical figures.
history: But in the century's final quarter, linguistic adjustments occurred in the Ottoman and Safavid realms defined by a new rigidity that favoured Ottoman Turkish and Persian, respectively.
history: In Switzerland it is documented as being called das Gruppie by the Mellingen chronicler Anton Tegenfeld, the flu nickname then preferred by German-speaking Europeans.
history: The last decades of the Ottoman Empire also saw the development of a new architectural style called neo-Ottoman or Ottoman revivalism, also known as the First National Architectural Movement, by architects such as Mimar Kemaleddin and Vedat Tek.
history: 1 (one, unit, unity) is a number, numeral, and grapheme.
history: About 109 minutes ago, the Roman Empire was flourishing and Christianity was emerging.
history: Due to increasing economic and food shortages, disorder had grown among the underclasses in the city and beyond, whom moralist authorities increasingly struggled to govern.
history: Left with little political power and flexibility, the CUP began to plan a coup against Kâmil Pasha's government.
history: London's status as England's economic powerhouse continued despite semi-generational plague epidemics like 1603.
history: Abu-Husayn, Abdul-Rahim (1998).
history: A great part of this desire for local and foreign manuscripts arose in the 15th century.
history: 51,422,757,785,981 : 37th Pell number, 193rd Markov number
55,555,555,555,555 : repdigit
55,898,149,507,200 : 79th superabundant number
57,850,602,535,042 : 194th Markov number
58,734,306,828,191 : number of series-reduced planted trees with 50 nodes
59,918,212,890,625 : 26th automorphic number
history: In villages where two or more populations lived together, the inhabitants often spoke each other's language.
history: Upon Abram's return, Sodom's king came out to meet with him in the Valley of Shaveh, the "king's dale".
history: Outbreaks were particularly severe in communities suffering from food scarcity.
history: French and Serbian forces retook limited areas of Macedonia by recapturing Bitola on 19 November 1916, following the costly Monastir offensive, which brought stabilisation of the front.
history: The Ottoman system had three court systems: one for Muslims, one for non-Muslims, involving appointed Jews and Christians ruling over their respective religious communities, and the "trade court".
history: Usban is animal tripe stitched and stuffed with rice and vegetables cooked in tomato based soup or steamed.
history: The Rustamids faced constant threats from the Aghlabids, backed by the Abbasid Caliphate, in the east, and the Alid Idrisids in the west.
history: Although Muslim notables contributed aid to the refugees, the latter were seen as a threat by some Damascene Muslims, according to Fawaz.
history: After this treaty the Ottoman Empire was able to enjoy a generation of peace in Europe, as Austria and Russia were forced to deal with the rise of Prussia.
history: Following the massacres and an international outcry, the Ottoman Empire agreed on 3 August 1860 to the dispatch of up to 12,000 European soldiers to reestablish order.
history: ISBN 978-0-8264-4957-3.
history: The General National Congress (2014), a largely unrecognised rival parliament based in the de jure capital of Tripoli, claims to be a legal continuation of the GNC.
history: The swift punishment by Fuad Pasha ensured that he was praised even by his harshest European critics for his role in the restoration of order in Damascus.
history: The Syrians obtained at least part of their arsenals from European powers intent on destabilising Ottoman rule in Syria.
history: Muhammad ibn Ahmad al-Khwarizmi, in 976, stated that if no number appears in the place of tens in a calculation, a little circle should be used "to keep the rows".
history: "Catarrh" swept through the Swiss plateaus from August to September and almost disrupted the graduate studies of Swiss physician Felix Plater, who was sickened by severe fits of coughing while a candidate for his doctorate.
history: In the aftermath of Independence, new authors emerged on the Algerian literary scene, they attempted to expose social problems, among them there are Rachid Boudjedra, Rachid Mimouni, Leila Sebbar, Tahar Djaout and Tahar Ouettar.
history: The resulting Treaty of Zuhab of that same year decisively divided the Caucasus and adjacent regions between the two neighbouring empires as it had already been defined in the 1555 Peace of Amasya.
history: The first major outbreak of violence occurred when a 250-strong Maronite militia from Keserwan led by Taniyus Shahin went to collect the silk harvest from Naccache, but instead of returning to Keserwan, proceeded to Baabda in the al-Sahil district near Beirut.
history: 1642)
December 20 – Henry of Lorraine, Duke of Mayenne, French noble (d.
history: On 11 March 2014, after having been ousted by the GNC for his inability to halt a rogue oil shipment, Prime Minister Zeidan stepped down, and was replaced by Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thani.
history: The possession of firearms by non-military subjects was forbidden, though the authorities faced difficulties enforcing the ban in Syria.
history: Some of the Allied infantry who had just dealt a crushing defeat to the French at the Battle of Waterloo fully expected to have to fight again the next day (at the Battle of Wavre).
history: After this Ottoman expansion, competition began between the Portuguese Empire and the Ottomans to become the dominant power in the region.
history: Gaddafi's decision to abandon the pursuit of weapons of mass destruction after the Iraq War saw Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein overthrown and put on trial led to Libya being hailed as a success for Western soft power initiatives in the war on terror.
history: The Druze defenders forced them to retreat to Zahlé.
history: Mostly Christian, but some Muslim, accounts survived the war.
history: The day became a national holiday known as "Day of Revenge"; it was later renamed the "Day of Friendship" because of an improvement in Italy–Libya relations.
history: Berbers who make up between 15% and 20% to 24% of the population are divided into many groups with varying languages.
history: Violence became more common between June and early July, after news of Druze victories in Rashaya, Hasbaya and Zahle.
history: The arrangement came to be known as the "Double Qaimaqamate".
history: By AD 150, Ptolemy, influenced by Hipparchus and the Babylonians, was using a symbol for zero (—°) in his work on mathematical astronomy called the Syntaxis Mathematica, also known as the Almagest.
history: Among the captive chieftains were Muhammad, the Ghazir-based son and successor of the Assaf chieftain Mansur, Muhammad ibn Jamal al-Din and Mundhir, the respective Tanukhid chiefs of Aramoun and Abeih, Ali al-Harfush, the Shia chieftain of Baalbek, and Ibn Furaykh.
history: At first, the Bolsheviks refused the German terms, but when German troops began marching across Ukraine unopposed, they acceded to the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk on 3 March 1918.
history: Muteferrika's press published its first book in 1729 and, by 1743, issued 17 works in 23 volumes, each having between 500 and 1,000 copies.
history: The word Ottoman is an historical anglicisation of the name of Osman I, the founder of the Empire and of the ruling House of Osman (also known as the Ottoman dynasty).
history: Declared as Bey and later Pasha of Tripoli, Turgut Reis received submission from the tribes of the interior and several cities like Misrata, Zuwara, Gharyan, and Gafsa in the next decade.
history: 1012 grains of sand would occupy a volume of about 0.5 cubic metres.
history: On 15 September 1570, the Ottoman cavalry appeared before the last Venetian stronghold in Cyprus, Famagusta.
history: Specifically through Jacob, renamed "Israel" in Genesis 35:10, both "a nation and a company of nations" would arise, and the promise that his descendants would become a multitude of nations is maintained through Jacob's blessing of his grandson, Ephraim, in Genesis 48:19.
history: The tradition of folk culture is still alive and well, with troupes performing music and dance at frequent festivals, both in Libya and abroad.
history: Oxford and New York: The Centre for Lebanese Studies and I.
history: The total sum was divided into three categories, with the third being "deliberately designed to be chimerical" and its "primary function was to mislead public opinion ...
history: Meanwhile, Druze forces from Wadi al-Taym, Rashaya, Chouf and the Hauran were assembling in Zahlé's vicinity, using the nearby mixed village of Qabb Ilyas to Zahlé's south, as their headquarters.
history: Hagar then called God who spoke to her "El-roi", ("Thou God seest me": KJV).
history: The crowds subsequently moved on to several other Muslim homes where Christians were being hidden and the homeowners were threatened to hand over the Christians, hundreds of whom were seized and executed.
history: Korpel and J.C.
history: In the Von Neumann cardinal assignment of natural numbers, where each number is defined as a set that contains all numbers before it, 1 is represented as the singleton 
  
    
      
        {
        0
        }
      
    
    {\displaystyle \{0\}}
  
, a set containing only the element 0.
history: In literature,
Man'yōshū (万葉集 Man'yōshū, Collection of Ten Thousand Leaves) is the oldest existing, and most highly revered, collection of Japanese poetry.
history: Apparently, Shibli was still in service of Ibrahim by late 1840, when Egyptians began evacuating Syria and Lebanon.
history: Cases began to steadily increase over the next few weeks, with plague killing 131 Londoners for the week ending 3 July before sharply increasing to hundreds of deaths per week by 30 July.
history: Flu became more widely referred to as coqueluche and coccolucio in France and Sicily during this pandemic, variations of which became the most popular names for flu in early modern Europe.
history: 4 (1963), then to its current name Central Bank of Libya after the 1969 coup d'état.
history: Censuses of Ottoman territories only began in the early 19th century.
history: According to O'Kane, artists often chose to divert from the common literary portrayal of Lazarus sitting next to Abraham at a banquet in Heaven and instead focus on the "somewhat incongruous notion of Abraham, the most venerated of patriarchs, holding a naked and vulnerable child in his bosom".
history: He collectivised agriculture and launched a massive industrialisation drive.
history: According to the British consul, the Christian defeat at Zahle caused many Christians to consequently want to flee Ottoman Syria.
history: Both notes have an image of Mosul's al-Hadba' Minaret on the back.
history: Libya was finally put under sanctions by the United Nations after the bombing of a commercial flight at Lockerbie in 1988 killed 270 people.
history: Libya extends over 1,759,540 square kilometres (679,362 sq mi), making it the 16th-largest nation in the world by size.
history: Later, a general of the Almohads, Muhammad ibn Abu Hafs, ruled Libya from 1207 to 1221 before the later establishment of the Tunisian Hafsid Kingdom independent from the Almohads.
history: They were overthrown by the Almohads, who captured Marrakesh in 1147.
history: Finkelstein and Römer considered Abraham as ancestor who was worshiped in Hebron, with the oldest tradition of him possibly being about the altar he built in Hebron.
history: 1645)
December 2 – Agostino Agazzari, Italian composer and music theorist (d.
history: In 2013, it was estimated that 60% of the population could speak or understand French.
history: A battle of attrition aims to inflict losses on an enemy that are less sustainable compared to one's own losses.
history: The authorities strengthened security and maintained calm in Jerusalem and Nablus.
history: State Council of Defense.
history: To Bahá'u'lláh, the "Voice of God" commanded Abraham to offer up Ishmael as a sacrifice, so that his steadfastness in the faith of God and his detachment from all else but him may be demonstrated unto men.
history: The politics of Libya has been in a tumultuous state since the start of the Arab Spring and the NATO intervention related Libyan crisis in 2011.
history: Most of Libya's inhabitants are Arab, with many tracing their ancestry to Bedouin Arab tribes like Banu Sulaym and Banu Hilal, plus Turkish and Berber minorities.
history: A coalition led by the Berber leader Kusayla ambushed and killed Oqba at the Battle of Tahouda in 683.
history: Historically, ought, aught (), and cipher have also been used.
history: "Islam and Abortion: The Diversity of Discourses and Practices".
history: Figures from 1831 onwards are available as official census results, but the censuses did not cover the whole population.
history: Austro-Hungarian authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina imprisoned approximately 5,500 prominent Serbs, 700 to 2,200 of whom died in prison.
history: Abram fell or bowed to the ground in a gesture of reverence, and God gave Abram a new name: he was now to be called "Abraham".
history: By summer the plague had begun to interfere more with daily life.
history: Volume: The cube root of one million is one hundred, so a million objects or cubic units is contained in a cube a hundred objects or linear units on a side.
history: They were anchored in Kalkara Creek, and the disease was first detected in a man from the village of Kalkara who had contact with them.
history: With these nine figures, and with the sign 0 ...
history: The increasing tensions led to an outbreak of conflict between Christians and Druzes as early as May 1845.
history: In 1979, he became a founder and editor of the department's journal, Dirasat al-Tarikhiyya ('Historical Studies').
history: 29 (1): 1–11.
history: As Yusuf weakened, factions sprung up around his three sons.
history: Accordingly, his primordial form is called Adam of Light.
history: 1657)
June 13 – Thomas Finch, 2nd Earl of Winchilsea, Member of Parliament (d.
history: The source of the disease is not certain.
history: Thus, instead of reforming harmful practices, agricultural policy since 1983 focused on pumping water to the coast from fossil reserves in the desert as part of the GMMR project.
history: Nevertheless, the success of the Ottoman political and military establishment was compared to the Roman Empire, despite the difference in size, by the likes of contemporary Italian scholar Francesco Sansovino and French political philosopher Jean Bodin.
history: Egyptologist Alan Gardiner suggested that the nfr hieroglyph was being used as a symbol for zero.
history: The Druzes of Wadi al-Taym had been receiving numerous reinforcements from Majdal Shams, Iqlim al-Ballan and the Hauran plain, and were quietly backed by Uthman Bey.
history: The Armed Islamic Group declared a ceasefire in October 1997.
history: The plague may have contributed to the decline of Italy's economy relative to those of other Western European countries.
history: By the end of 1916, Russian casualties totalled nearly five million killed, wounded or captured, with major urban areas affected by food shortages and high prices.
history: As Pasha of Tripoli, Osman Saqizli managed to maintain political stability during the 1650s and 1660s.
history: Libya's representatives were vocal about this stance at the latter conference, where they expressed a reservation to the article providing a right to abortion, noting that this differed from the country's law, and concurred with Jordan's delegation in support of Islamic abortion law.
history: "Une ville du Maghreb entre ancien régime et réformes ottomanes"; Tripoli 1795–1911, Paris, 2002
history: Mammals include species such as the fennec fox, sand cat, and dorcas gazelle, while larger animals like the addax and scimitar-horned oryx have declined due to hunting.
history: The CBL has three branches, located in Benghazi, Sabha and Sirte.
history: This root is the source of similar words for "ten" in many other Germanic languages, like Dutch, German, and Swedish.
history: Falling water tables caused by over irrigation posed a long-term ecological threat.
history: Abimelech was informed that Abraham was a prophet who would pray for him.
history: Modern research indicates that the tribute caravan arrived intact and that the expedition was instead the culmination of Ottoman attempts to subjugate the Druze and other tribal groups in Mount Lebanon dating from 1518.
history: Soon, however, rumors began to circulate that the government would dissolve the Chamber of Deputies and call new elections.
history: By 709, the entire Maghreb was under Umayyad control.
history: It offered amnesty to most guerrillas and Government security forces.
history: For much of the 19th century, the major European powers maintained a tenuous balance of power, known as the Concert of Europe.
history: Many were able to report on events from a perspective somewhat akin to modern "embedded" positions within the opposing land and naval forces.
history: After Hagar found she was pregnant, she began to despise her mistress, Sarai.
history: On 23 October 2020, a permanent ceasefire was signed to end the war.
history: Rarer forms include tril, trill, tln, and trn.
history: Economic recession caused by the crash in world oil prices resulted in Algerian social unrest during the 1980s; by the end of the decade, Bendjedid introduced a multi-party system.
history: When a battleground is the site of more than one battle in the same conflict, the instances are distinguished by ordinal number, such as the First and Second Battles of Bull Run.
history: The Ottoman sultan Abdulhamid II twice sent his aide-de-camp Azmzade Sadik El Mueyyed to meet Sheikh Sanusi to cultivate positive relations and counter the West European scramble for Africa.
history: Leaders from the Indian National Congress and other groups believed support for the British war effort would hasten Indian Home Rule, a promise allegedly made explicit in 1917 by Edwin Montagu, the Secretary of State for India.
history: Even after the war, in Britain, many job advertisements were marked "No conscientious objectors need to apply".
history: 10000-year clock or the Clock of the Long Now is a mechanical clock designed to keep time for 10000 years.
history: Bulgaria declared war on Serbia on 14 October 1915, and joined in the attack by the Austro-Hungarian army under Mackensen's army of 250,000 that was already underway.
history: Major religious monuments were typically architectural complexes, known as a külliye, that had multiple components providing different services or amenities.
history: Under the Ottomans, the Maghreb was divided into three provinces, Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli.
history: Both religious and non-religious books could be illuminated.
history: The fighting precipitated a French-led international military intervention.
history: Among these, in the summer time when winds are heavy and gusty, temperatures can go up to 43.3 °C (110 °F).
history: A prominent London physician named Dr.
history: By the 5th century BC, the greatest of the Phoenician colonies, Carthage, had extended its hegemony across much of North Africa, where a distinctive civilisation, known as Punic, came into being.
history: The Ottoman Empire started preparing its first pilots and planes, and with the founding of the Aviation School (Tayyare Mektebi) in Yeşilköy on 3 July 1912, the Empire began to tutor its own flight officers.
history: The Siege of Famagusta claimed 50,000 Ottoman casualties.
history: Thus any number raised to the zero power is one, and 0!
history: Aware of German plans to attack through Belgium, French Commander-in-Chief Joseph Joffre asked his government for permission to cross the border and pre-empt such a move.
history: 63,799 primes between 6,000,000 and 7,000,000.
history: 1604)
Everard Digby, English conspirator (d.
history: A number of the Ottoman sultans have accomplished musicians and composers themselves, such as Selim III, whose compositions are often still performed today.
history: doi:10.1017/S0021853700018326.
history: Algiers, Oran, Constantine, and Annaba are Algeria's main cities.
history: The country's official religion is Islam, with 96.6% of the Libyan population being Sunni Muslims.
history: The suzerainty of Serbia as a hereditary monarchy under its own dynasty was acknowledged de jure in 1830.
history: More repatriated in 1970 after the accession of Muammar Gaddafi, but a few hundred returned in the 2000s.
history: In retaliation, the Fatimids sent the Arab tribes of Banū Hilāl and Banū Sulaym, whose invasion caused widespread destruction, especially in Kairouan.
history: The war caused an exodus of the Crimean Tatars, about 200,000 of whom moved to the Ottoman Empire in continuing waves of emigration.
history: 0 is a number and a numerical digit.
history: Kabyle has a significant Arabic, French, Latin, Greek, Phoenician and Punic substratum, and Arabic loanwords represent 35% of the total Kabyle vocabulary.
history: Lot and his family, at the time, were settled on the outskirts of the Kingdom of Sodom which made them a visible target.
history: Officially Libya remained "Italian Libya" until February 1947, when Italy signed the Peace Treaty ceding all the colonies and possessions of the defeated former Italian Empire.
history: A 1996 analysis by the Committee to Protect Journalists found Libya's media was the most tightly controlled in the Arab world during the country's dictatorship.
history: According to the World Bank, Algeria is making progress towards its goal of "reducing by half the number of people without sustainable access to improved drinking water and basic sanitation by 2015".
history: After the Shihab dynasty converted to Christianity, the Druze lost most of their political and feudal powers.
history: Enver Pasha, supreme commander of the Ottoman armed forces, dreamed of re-conquering central Asia and areas that had been previously lost to Russia.
history: Freitag, Ulrike (2010).
history: The consuls of the United Kingdom and France took over the protection of both the combatants and the non-combatants who had supported Karatasos from a possible Ottoman invasion of Mount Athos.
history: Encyclopædia Britannica.
history: During the 1960s the government began an afforestation program.
history: Another prominent resistance leader, Idris al-Mahdi as-Senussi (later King Idris I), Emir of Cyrenaica, continued to lead the Libyan resistance until the outbreak of the Second World War.
history: The Central Bank of Libya (CBL) is the monetary authority in Libya.
history: Khurram Pasha followed up by appointing subashis (police superintendents) to enforce law and order in the area, but they were killed by the Druze.
history: The Ottoman Empire took advantage of the European powers' preoccupation with the war and conducted large-scale ethnic cleansing of the Armenian, Greek, and Assyrian Christian populations—the Armenian genocide, Greek genocide, and Assyrian genocide respectively.
history: King Idris I, already in his sixties, had no direct heir to succeed him.
history: The combined Christian fatalities from the massacre at Hasbaya and the assault on Rashaya and its neighboring villages were roughly 1,800.
history: Finally, in early 1917, Germany adopted a policy of unrestricted submarine warfare, realising the Americans would eventually enter the war.
history: He is called both a hanif (monotheist) and muslim (one who submits), and Muslims regard him as a prophet and patriarch, the archetype of the perfect Muslim, and the revered reformer of the Kaaba in Mecca.
history: Another physician, Dr.
history: In C, a byte containing the value 0 serves to indicate where a string of characters ends.
history: New York: Oxford University Press.
history: His successor Sultan Mahmud II (r.
history: To shoot down enemy planes, anti-aircraft guns and fighter aircraft were developed.
history: But ⁠x/0⁠ is undefined, because 0 has no multiplicative inverse (no real number multiplied by 0 produces 1), a consequence of the previous rule.
history: Two-thirds of London's population resided in the crowded, unsanitary, and poorly-governed parishes known as "liberties" which surrounded the walls and extended into the countryside.
history: Following the tsar's abdication, Vladimir Lenin—with the help of the German government—was ushered from Switzerland into Russia on 16 April 1917.
history: During the Köprülü era (1656–1703), effective control of the Empire was exercised by a sequence of grand viziers from the Köprülü family.
history: On 31 August Uveys Pasha was ordered by the Porte to cooperate with Ibrahim Pasha against the Bedouin and the Druze who had rebelled throughout Damascus Eyalet, causing damage and attacking highways.
history: From the early 16th century until the early 20th century, the Ottoman sultan also served as the caliph, or politico-religious leader, of the Muslim world.
history: American colonists and European forces continued using disciplined lines into the American Civil War.
history: One is most commonly a determiner used with singular countable nouns, as in one day at a time.
history: Although the use of aircraft has for the most part always been used as a supplement to land or naval engagements, since their first major military use in World War I aircraft have increasingly taken on larger roles in warfare.
history: The Sultan was in the highest position in the system.
history: They were either employed as mercenaries or were made part of an army as was the case with Numidian cavalry.
history: According to historian Zbyněk Zeman, in Vienna "the event almost failed to make any impression whatsoever.
history: 'orator') and Seth was his legatee (Arabic: وصي, romanized: wasī, lit.
history: The beylerbey of Tripoli from 1579, the local chieftain of the Akkar area Yusuf Sayfa Pasha, was concomitantly dismissed, likely because of suspicions that he would compromise the government's interests for local considerations.
history: Genesis 1–11:26.
history: The Ottomans developed a unique sociopolitical system known as the millet, which granted non-Muslim communities a large degree of political, legal, and religious autonomy; in essence, members of a millet were subjects of the empire but not subject to the Muslim faith or Islamic law.
history: Middle East Journal of Digestive Diseases.
history: General John Troglita later restored a fragile peace, granting significant autonomy to the Moorish kingdoms.
history: Kusayla temporarily captured Kairouan before being defeated.
history: Low investments in fishing boats, ports, and processing facilities are major obstacles to growth.
history: Division: ⁠0/x⁠ = 0, for nonzero x.
history: Under the terms of the 1947 peace treaty with the Allies, Italy relinquished all claims to Libya.
history: Two incidents follow in which Abraham and Abimelech resolve issues by agreement.
history: 1553)
August 11 – Pedro Nunes, Portuguese mathematician (b.
history: The state retained some confiscated lands for state farming ventures, but overall, the government has not sought to eliminate the private sector from agriculture.
history: The National Transitional Council, established in 2011, referred to the state as simply "Libya".
history: God told Abraham not to be distressed but to do as his wife commanded.
history: The Roman Catholic Church, the largest Christian denomination, calls Abraham "our father in Faith" in the Eucharistic prayer of the Roman Canon, recited during the Mass.
history: As with the rejection of infinitesimals by Pythagoras, Greeks appear to maintain to a philosophical opposition to using zero as a number.
history: After the Fatimids transferred their capital to Egypt in 971, they appointed Buluggin ibn Ziri, a Sanhaja Berber leader, as their governor over Ifriqiya and the central Maghreb.
history: He is the patron saint of those in the hospitality industry.
history: In Mesopotamia, by contrast, after the defeat of the British defenders in the siege of Kut by the Ottomans (1915–1916), British Imperial forces reorganised and captured Baghdad in March 1917.
history: After the fall of Granada in 1492, the Ottoman Regency of Algiers on the North African coast emerged during the Ottoman–Habsburg struggles of the 16th century as a response to increasing Spanish encroachement on Algerian coastal cities.
history: Influenza was likely widespread in North Africa before crossing continents through the Mediterranean, arriving in Malta where British medical historian Thomas Short believed that the "island of Melite in Africa" became the 1510 flu's springboard into Europe.
history: In 1915, John McCrae, a Canadian army doctor, wrote the poem In Flanders Fields as a salute to those who perished in the war.
history: Ishmael was fourteen years old when Abraham's son Isaac was born to Sarah.
history: From the sixth century BC, under the Magonid dynasty, Carthage became more aggressive, partly due to rivalry with the Greeks, leading to conflict in Sicily in 580 BC.
history: Some early Christian writers interpreted the three visitors as the triune God.
history: Driven by financial desperation, Tripoli violated these terms a year later by seizing a French merchant ship.
history: A conflict in which one side is unwilling to reach a decision by a direct battle using conventional warfare often becomes an insurgency.
history: The Empire prospered under the rule of a line of committed and effective Sultans.
history: A millet could govern its own affairs, such as raising taxes and resolving internal legal disputes, with little or no interference from Ottoman authorities, so long as its members were loyal to the sultan and adhered to the rules concerning dhimmi.
history: Influenza quickly spread out along the Mediterranean coasts of Italy and southern France via merchant ships leaving the island.
history: The patriarch traveled three days until he came to the mount that God told him of.
history: The main corps of the Ottoman Army included Janissary, Sipahi, Akıncı and Mehterân.
history: In Winter, Stefan; HajHasan, Zainab (eds.).
history: During the expedition, a number of Ma'nids and other Druze chieftains, including the Alam al-Dins of the Matn and the Sharaf al-Dins of the Gharb defected to Ibrahim Pasha, along with a significant proportion of Qurqumaz's men.
history: Before 1840, the relationship between the Druze and Christians in Mount Lebanon had often been characterized by patterns of coexistence and interdependence within a hierarchy not defined by religion, but structured by rank.
history: Some place names have become synonymous with battles, such as the Passchendaele, Pearl Harbor, the Alamo, Thermopylae and Waterloo.
history: The Libyan tribes mentioned in these sources were: "Adyrmachidae", "Atarantians" "Giligamae", "Asbystae", "Marmaridae", "Auschisae", "Nasamones", "Macae", "Lotus-eaters (or Lotophagi)", "Garamantes", "Gaetulians", "Mauri", and "Luwatae", as well as many others.
history: The offensive also triggered the disintegration of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
history: It is the performance of several supercomputers, such as NEC SX-4, Intel's ASCI Red, and iPhone 15 Pro September 2023 A17 Pro processor.
history: Cases began to appear in Portugal around the same time the disease entered the Holy Roman Empire.
history: The empire reached its peak under Abu Yaqub Yusuf and Yaqub al-Mansur, who patronized philosophy (including Ibn Rushd/Averroes and Ibn Tufayl), arts, and architecture, while maintaining control in al-Andalus.
history: The opening day, on 1 July 1916, was the bloodiest single day in the history of the British Army, which suffered 57,500 casualties, including 19,200 dead.
history: Mandaeans consider Abraham to have been originally a Mandaean priest, however they differ with Abraham and Jews regarding circumcision which they consider to be bodily mutilation and therefore forbidden.
history: Algeria also has ergs, or sand dunes, between mountains.
history: 1574–1595), Arabian horses, an elephant and a giraffe.
history: represented the total German reparations" figure that had to be paid.
history: At the end of October 1917, the Sinai and Palestine campaign resumed, when General Edmund Allenby's XXth Corps, XXI Corps and Desert Mounted Corps won the Battle of Beersheba.
history: In mathematics, 1 is the multiplicative identity, meaning that any number multiplied by 1 equals the same number.
history: After Henry V of England defeated a French army on October 25, 1415, he met with the senior French herald and they agreed to name the battle after the nearby castle and so it was called the Battle of Agincourt.
history: It has an Euler totient of 4,000,000,000,000, and an aliquot sum of 14,998,474,116,998.
history: Yazidi tradition regards the Yazidi people as descendents of this son, Shahid.
history: The causes of World War I included the rise of the German Empire and decline of the Ottoman Empire, which disturbed the long-standing balance of power in Europe, the exacerbation of imperial rivalries, and an arms race between the great powers.
history: On 27 August 1916, they attacked Transylvania and occupied substantial parts of the province before being driven back by the recently formed German 9th Army, led by former Chief of Staff Erich von Falkenhayn.
history: The epidemic mainly consisted of bubonic plague, but some cases were also pneumonic or septicemic.
history: Abraham later marries Keturah and has six more sons; but, on his death, when he is buried beside Sarah, it is Isaac who receives "all Abraham's goods" while the other sons receive only "gifts".
history: The Sumerian cuneiform system is a direct ancestor to the Eblaite and Assyro-Babylonian Semitic cuneiform decimal systems.
history: Within a few months, Allied forces had seized all German territories in the Pacific, leaving only isolated commerce raiders and a few holdouts in New Guinea.
history: Sirte was the last Gaddafi loyalist stronghold and his place of birth.
history: Although mainly captives from sea piracy and coastal raiding around the Mediterranean,
 there were also Atlantic raids as far as Iceland.
history: Libya allied with other entities opposing access to abortion, including the United States at the time of the 1984 Mexico City Conference and the Catholic Church ahead of the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development.
history: Instead, they collected tribute, focused on trade (especially metals), and maintained friendly relations.
history: When the Ancient Greeks actually settled in Libya, the old name taken from the Egyptians was applied by the Greeks of Cyrenaica, who may have coexisted with the Libu.
history: At around this time, a group of military officers, uncomfortable with injustices it perceived within the military, organized itself into an armed organization known as the "Savior Officers" (Turkish: Halâskâr Zâbitân) and made their presence known to the imperial government.
history: In 1557, a pandemic strain of influenza emerged in Asia, then spread to Africa, Europe, and eventually the Americas.
history: Carved on the Sultan's seal, they bore the names of the Sultan and his father.
history: While lower in scale than the June massacres, they were forensically critical in cementing the permanent demographic shifts in the mixed districts of Mount Lebanon.
history: The Mesoamerican Long Count calendar developed in south-central Mexico and Central America required the use of zero as a placeholder within its vigesimal (base-20) positional numeral system.
history: Wheeler, Brannon M.
history: A violent incident occurred between a Muslim and Christian man in Bethlehem, ending with the latter being beaten and imprisoned.
history: "Tripoli and Tripolitania: Conflict and Cohesion during the Period of the Barbary Corsairs (1551–1850)".
history: Winter, Stefan (2010).
history: Switzerland was also reached by the disease in August.
history: The AIS disbanded and levels of insurgent violence fell rapidly.
history: The Janissaries had been recruited from Christians and other minorities; their abolition enabled the emergence of a Turkish elite to control the Ottoman Empire.
history: One of the ships, the Dennis, is wrecked on an iceberg.
history: Each province, district, and municipality is named after its seat, which is usually the largest city.
history: Despite brilliant resistance, Jugurtha was defeated and captured in 106 BC with the betrayal of his father-in-law Bocchus of Mauretania.Rome gradually tightened control: first turning Numidia into a protectorate, then dividing and weakening it.
history: Defeated in World War I, the Ottoman Empire signed the Armistice of Mudros on 30 October 1918.
history: In December 2019, Abdelmadjid Tebboune became Algeria's president, after winning the first round of the presidential election with a record abstention rate – the highest of all presidential elections since Algeria's democracy in 1989.
history: Acta Viennensia Ottomanica: Proceedings of the 13th CIEPO-Symposiums, from 21 to 25 September 1998.
history: The campaigns were lauded by the contemporary ulema and poets of Damascus.
history: On 26 February, Grand Master Nicolás Cotoner and the committee met and decided to increase the measures being taken.
history: ISSN 0020-7438.
history: These illnesses can resemble the flu in their early stages but pandemic influenza is distinguished by its fast-moving, unrestricted epidemics of severe respiratory disease affecting all ages with widespread infections and mortalities.
history: He ruled for 42 years until being overthrown and killed in the 2011 civil war, which was part of the wider Arab Spring, with authority transferred to the National Transitional Council then to the elected General National Congress.
history: Of the naturally regenerating forest 0% was reported to be primary forest (consisting of native tree species with no clearly visible indications of human activity) and around 6% of the forest area was found within protected areas.
history: However, poor sanitation and unclean water still cause tuberculosis, hepatitis, measles, typhoid fever, cholera and dysentery.
history: In June 2014, elections were held to the House of Representatives, a new legislative body intended to take over from the General National Congress.
history: Women and children were threatened if they would not inform the mob about the whereabouts of the household's adult men or hidden jewelry, and occasionally girls and young women were abducted.
history: In the first stanza, God tells Abraham to "kill me a son".
history: He obtained his primary and secondary education at the American College in Aleppo, where he learned English and French and continued his pursuit of mastering Arabic.
history: When they lived for a while in the Negev after being banished from Egypt and came back to the Bethel and Ai area, Abram's and Lot's sizable herds occupied the same pastures.
history: The rebellion eventually took Damascus and set up a short-lived monarchy led by Faisal, a son of Hussein.
history: Landscape: A pyramidal hill 600 feet (180 m) wide at the base and 100 feet (30 m) high would weigh about a million short tons.
history: They maintained control of Sicily, raided northern Italy (934–935 and 1004–1015), and developed a prosperous economy there, with many mosques, sugar cane, papyrus, and cotton production that rivalled Spain.
history: In the 16th century, Hindu–Arabic numerals became the predominant numerals used in Europe.
history: 1,129,760,415 : 23rd Motzkin number.
history: It is the first and smallest positive integer of the infinite sequence of natural numbers.
history: It is normal during plague outbreaks for the disease to subside or break in a community during the winter months, as rats and their fleas retreat from snow and their resources thin out.
history: At some point, a hospice for lepers was burned down with its residents inside.
history: Ali Rahuma.
history: In the early and middle 20th century, leading archaeologists such as William F.
history: European model sports clubs were formed with the spreading popularity of football matches in 19th-century Constantinople.
history: The coup is considered one of the first violent coups d'état to take place in modern Turkish history, seen as some as establishing a precedent for future coups in the Republic of Turkey.
history: God also declared Sarai's new name to be "Sarah", blessed her, and told Abraham, "I will give thee a son also of her".
history: The child of a slave was born a slave, unless the male slave owner acknowledged the child of his female slave as his, in which case the child would be automatically free by law.
history: Revolutions of Tunis
history: Zahalni Christian forces launched an assault against Qabb Ilyas on 14 June.
history: Physical effects of battle can include scars, amputations, lesions, loss of bodily functions, blindness, paralysis and death.
history: Oil production was more than 1.6 million barrels per day before the war.
history: The government's efforts to diversify the economy by attracting foreign and domestic investment outside the energy sector have done little to reduce high youth unemployment rates or to address housing shortages.
history: A brief lull in the violence began to set in during the first night and the second day.
history: Sunni Islam was the prevailing Dīn (customs, legal traditions, and religion) of the Ottoman Empire; the official Madh'hab (school of Islamic jurisprudence) was Hanafi.
history: American inventor Samuel Morse received an Ottoman patent for the telegraph in 1847, issued by Sultan Abdülmecid, who personally tested the invention.
history: Through the 1980s about 70% of Libya's food needs were imported.
history: The Paris Peace Conference of 1919–1920 imposed settlements on the defeated powers.
history: In this region, midday desert temperatures can be hot year round.
history: 1641)
October 12 – Baldassare Aloisi, Italian painter (d.
history: It is based on both land and sea products.
history: The authorities also maintained calm in Homs, Hama, Latakia and Aleppo by introducing additional security measures.
history: Abimelech claimed ignorance of the incident.
history: The use of chemical weapons in warfare was a direct violation of the 1899 Hague Declaration Concerning Asphyxiating Gases and the 1907 Hague Convention on Land Warfare, which prohibited their use.
history: There was also geographic elements as to why these cities had been affected, and that was because these cities were located on the border of Malta and so had to let people in and out constantly.
history: There are three Coptic Churches in Libya, one in Tripoli, one in Benghazi, and one in Misurata.
history: Bhāskara II's 12th century treatise Līlāvatī instead proposed that division by zero results in an infinite quantity,
history: The sultan supported the pasha with a corps of janissaries who he was dependent upon, which was in turn divided into a number of companies under the command of a junior officer or bey.
history: Spanning over 2,381,741 square kilometres (919,595 sq mi), it is the largest country in Africa and the tenth largest in the world.
history: Before the epidemic, mourning periods would last for one or two years, and three days after a person died no fire would be lit in the kitchen in the house of the deceased.
history: In March 1977, Libya officially became the "Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya".
history: A well of water then appeared so that it saved their lives.
history: During the 19th century, influences from Western Europe became more prominent, brought in by architects such as those from the Balyan family.
history: Some 99% of Algerians living in urban areas, and around 93.4% of those living in rural areas, had access to "improved sanitation".
history: A quintessential example is the ancient Orthodox community of Mount Athos, which was permitted to retain its autonomy and was never subject to occupation or forced conversion; even special laws were enacted to protect it from outsiders.
history: William Shakespeare, being among the plague refugees at this time, took the time to write his famed sonnets.
history: In August 1859, a brawl occurred between Druze and Maronites in the Metn area in the Christian sector of the Qaimaqamate (more about the events in Beit Meri at "Mount Lebanon Mutasarrifate: 1860 civil war").
history: Short describes some medicinal treatments for the 1510 flu including "Bole Armoniac, oily lintus, pectoral troches, and decoctions."
history: ISBN 9780815660729.
history: June 30 – After having come into conflict on May 17 with his fellow officer, Thomas Doughty, during their circumnavigation of the world, Francis Drake puts Doughty on trial while the flagship Pelican is docked at what is now Argentina.
history: The first announcement of a competing political authority appeared online and declared the Interim Transitional National Council as an alternative government.
history: 10,000,000,000,000 was used in Banknotes of Zimbabwe: 2008 banknote series circulated due to the intense hyperinflation in Zimbabwe during the 2008-2009 period.
history: ISBN 978-90-5356-503-2.
history: The Karamanlis ruled from 1711 until 1835 mainly in Tripolitania, and had influence in Cyrenaica and Fezzan as well by the mid-18th century.
history: In the weeks that followed, U.S.
history: Influenza caused higher burial rates, near-universal infection, and economic turmoil as it returned in repeated waves.
history: 1624)
approx.
history: However, opposition to involvement in the war increased in Ireland, resulting in the Conscription Crisis of 1918.
history: 75,418,890,625 = 2746252 = 42253 = 656
77,777,777,777 = repdigit
78,310,985,281 = 2798412 = 5294 = 238
78,364,164,096 = 2799362 = 367 = 614
history: In accordance with the Muslim dhimmi system, the Ottoman Empire guaranteed limited freedoms to Christians, Jews, and other "people of the book", such as the right to worship, own property, and be exempt from the obligatory alms (zakat) required of Muslims.
history: In many mathematical and engineering problems, numeric values are typically normalized to fall within the unit interval 
  
    
      
        [
        0
        ,
        1
        ]
      
    
    {\displaystyle [0,1]}
  
, where 1 represents the maximum possible value.
history: The war began with coordinated FLN attacks on 31 October–1 November 1954.
history: In November 2008, the Algerian Constitution was amended following a vote in Parliament, removing the two-term limit on Presidential incumbents.
history: Ottoman Turkish was the official language of the Empire.
history: On 10 March 2011, the United States and many other nations recognised the council headed by Mahmoud Jibril as acting prime minister and as the legitimate representative of the Libyan people and withdrawing the recognition of Gaddafi's regime.
history: 1537)
August 4
Sebastian, King of Portugal (b.
history: Terah, the ninth in descent from Noah, was the father of Abram, Nahor, Haran (Hebrew: הָרָן Hārān) and Sarah.
history: Al-Samman then urged the crowd to revolt and mete out vengeance on the Christians.
history: In 2009, 35,000 Chinese migrant workers lived in Algeria.
history: Confirmed and suspected cases at Fort Saint Elmo were transferred to the Isolotto, and a general curfew was proclaimed on 25 May.
history: He writes that the Berbers add an "a" and "t" to the name for the plural forms.
history: Algeria won the Palme d'Or for Chronicle of the Years of Fire (1975), two Oscars for Z (1969), and other awards for the Italian-Algerian movie The Battle of Algiers.
history: It is still recited today, especially on Remembrance Day and Memorial Day.
history: Gaddafi officially passed power to the General People's Committees and henceforth claimed to be no more than a symbolic figurehead.
history: Due to tension between the states of western Europe and the later Byzantine Empire, most of the Orthodox population accepted Ottoman rule, as preferable to Venetian rule.
history: Algeria's currency is the dinar (DZD).
history: Forestus himself became sick with the flu and related that it "...began with a slight fever like a common catarrh, and showed its great malignancy only by degrees.
history: For the next 50 years, Tripolitania was the scene of numerous battles among Ayyubids, the Almohad rulers and insurgents of the Banu Ghaniya.
history: Production from the oil and gas sector in terms of volume continues to decline, dropping from 43.2 million tonnes to 32 million tonnes between 2007 and 2011.
history: When they entered Egypt, the Pharaoh's officials praised Sarai's beauty to Pharaoh, and they took her into the palace and gave Abram goods in exchange.
history: Its estimated contribution to Agricultural GDP is negligible, standing at around 10%.
history: Large parts of the town were burned down.
history: Towards the end of the empire's existence life expectancy was 49 years, compared to the mid-twenties in Serbia at the beginning of the 19th century.
history: Cambridge University Press.
history: Sultan Abdülhamid II distrusted the admirals who sided with the reformist Midhat Pasha and claimed that the large and expensive fleet was of no use against the Russians during the Russo-Turkish War.
history: The military system became an intricate organisation with the advance of the Empire.
history: Their first capital was Qal'at Bani Hammad, later moving to Béjaïa (Bougie), which became a major prosperous city.
history: These rules apply for any real or complex number x, unless otherwise stated.
history: Other writers in Algerian literature include Mouloud Feraoun, Malek Bennabi, Malek Haddad, Moufdi Zakaria, Abdelhamid Ben Badis, Mohamed Laïd Al-Khalifa, Mouloud Mammeri, Frantz Fanon, and Assia Djebar.
history: In distances,
10 km, 10,000 m, or 1 E+4 m is equal to:
1 Scandinavian mil.
history: Flu spread quickly from Sicily into the Kingdom of Naples on the lower part of the Italian Peninsula, moving upward along the coastline.
history: The Kurdish irregulars led Hassan Agha Yazigi that were dispatched by the Ottoman governor of Damascus did not attempt to relieve the siege.
history: Historian Richard Holmes argues that these changes meant the right wing was not strong enough to achieve decisive success.
history: Ottoman cuisine is the cuisine of the capital, Constantinople (Istanbul), and the regional capital cities, where the melting pot of cultures created a common cuisine that most of the population regardless of ethnicity shared.
history: The discovery of significant oil reserves in 1959 and the subsequent income from petroleum sales enabled one of the world's poorest nations to establish an extremely wealthy state.
history: Future of food economics in the Arab State.
history: It is 196 prime numbers less than the number of primes between 0 and 10000 (1229, also prime).
history: A further German demand for neutrality was refused by the French who ordered general mobilisation but delayed declaring war.
history: In February 2016, the Algerian constitution passed a resolution that made Berber an official language alongside Arabic.
history: European slaves and large numbers of enslaved Blacks transported from Sudan were also a feature of everyday life in Tripoli.
history: 65,367 primes between 4,000,000 and 5,000,000.
history: The Arabs defeated the Byzantine patrician Gregory at the Battle of Sufetula, weakening Byzantine authority in Ifriqiya.
history: The kingdom had just suffered food shortages due to 1556–57's poor harvest, which would have exacerbated the effects of the flu on hungry patients.
history: Most deaths were in the urban areas, including the capital Valletta and the Three Cities, which had a mortality rate of about 41%.
history: The epidemic continued to spread throughout the rural towns and villages, including Birkirkara on 10 March, Rabat on 11 March and eventually to Kirkop, Qrendi, Qormi, Balzan, Siġġiewi, Żebbuġ and Żurrieq by the end of the month.
history: 176) distinguishes three main parts: (1) the Book Ha-Malbush; (2) the Great Raziel; (3) the Book of Secrets, or the Book of Noah.
history: As the Ottoman Empire gradually shrank, 7–9 million Muslims from its former territories in the Caucasus, Crimea, Balkans, and the Mediterranean islands migrated to Anatolia and Eastern Thrace.
history: After the death of General Larbi Belkheir, previous president Bouteflika put loyalists in key posts, notably at Sonatrach, and secured constitutional amendments that made him re-electable indefinitely, until he was brought down in 2019 during protests.
history: Islam is the predominant religion in Algeria, with its adherents, mostly Sunnis, accounting for 99% of the population according to a 2021 CIA World Factbook estimate, and 98.4% according to Pew Research in 2020.
history: In Topkapi Palace, these manuscripts were created by the artists working in Nakkashane, the atelier of the miniature and illumination artists.
history: In the capital, dogs were killed but cats were not, since they were seen as useful in controlling the rat population, even though at the time it was not known that rats were the cause of the disease.
history: A sportsman in his youth, the prince took part in chariot races and the Panathenaic Games which only populations whom the greeks considered equal to them culturally and religiously were allowed to participate.
history: Political parties developed, such as the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), a broad coalition of Muslim groups.
history: Abimelech and Phicol approached Abraham because of a dispute over the well.
history: Historian François Eudes de Mézeray traced the etymology of "coqueluche" to an outbreak during the 1410s during which sufferers wore hoods resembling coqueluchons, a kind of monk's cowl.
history: Being surrounded by sea made it quite easy for such diseases to spread, as people at the time were making money through fishing and merchant trading.
history: The Italian Liberal Party, under the leadership of Paolo Boselli, promoted intervention in the war on the side of the Allies and used the Dante Alighieri Society to promote Italian nationalism.
history: 1643)
December 30 – Ulrik of Denmark, Danish prince-bishop (d.
history: Information on ancient Libya comes from archaeological evidence and historic sources written by Egyptian scribes, as well as the ancient Greeks, Romans, and Byzantines, and later from Arabs of Medieval times.
history: Turkey recorded the evacuation of 25,000 workers during the 2011 uprising.
history: Numerous traditions and cultural traits of previous empires (in fields such as architecture, cuisine, music, leisure, and government) were adopted by the Ottoman Turks, who developed them into new forms, resulting in a new and distinctively Ottoman cultural identity.
history: In Ottoman Turkish, the empire was referred to as Devlet-i ʿAlīye-yi ʿOsmānīye (دولت عليه عثمانیه), lit.
history: The agreement was signed on July 23, 1838.
history: These weaknesses contributed to Russian defeats at Tannenberg and the Masurian Lakes in August and September 1914, forcing them to withdraw from East Prussia with heavy losses.
history: In ancient times, the Phoenicians/Carthaginians, the Saite Egyptians, the Persian Achaemenid Empire (see Libya (satrapy)), the Macedonian Empire of Alexander the Great and his Ptolemaic successors from Egypt ruled variously parts of Libya.
history: Elizabeth and the Royal Council decided to avoid the City of London entirely.
history: In 1530 the city, along with Malta and Gozo, was ceded by Charles I of Spain to the Knights of St John as compensation for their recent expulsion from the island of Rhodes at the hands of the Ottoman Turks.
history: Poorer, unsanitary parishes and neighborhoods were located near the city wall and River Thames while the Fleet Ditch area of London, around Fleet Prison, became the most heavily infected part of the city.
history: 72 (4): 1175–1201.
history: 1554)
Thomas Stukley, English adventurer (b.
history: The latter conquered also Cyrenaica.
history: This tactic was usually used by civilizations that could not beat the enemy with ranged weaponry.
history: Divan poetry was composed through the constant juxtaposition of many such images within a strict metrical framework, allowing numerous potential meanings to emerge.
history: Non-Muslim ethnic minorities in the empire used French as a lingua franca and used French-language publications, while some provincial newspapers were published in Arabic.
history: The deceased were buried in mass graves at designated locations.
history: ISBN 978-0-19-518-111-1.
history: "The whole of the Greek universe rested on this pillar: There is no void." Nieder dates the appearance of zero in Greek astronomical texts after 400 BC and mathematician Robert Kaplan further specifies that it must have been after the conquests of Alexander.
history: 1012 days (about 2.74 billion years) ago, Earth was an alien world where only single-celled microorganisms existed.
history: Flu spread over the Alps into Switzerland and the Holy Roman Empire.
history: He spent a considerable period of exile in Egypt under Italian rule and returned to Libya after the Axis powers were ousted in 1943.
history: Homer used the name in a geographic sense, while he called its inhabitants "Lotus-eaters".
history: The Ottoman dynasty was Turkish in origin.
history: 1502)
August 16 – Andrew Corbet, English landowner and politician (b.
history: Profiting from the civil strife, Austria-Hungary officially annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908.
history: A bolt of finely woven 1000-TC bed sheet linen with a billion thread crossings would have an area of 40 square metres (48 sq yd), comparable to the floor area of a motel unit.
history: In addition, English is widely understood in the major cities, while the former colonial language of Italian is also used in commerce and by the remaining Italian population.
history: This prolonged French presence in Syria was soon objected to by the British government, which argued that pacification should be left to Ottoman authorities.
history: Libya imports up to 90% of its cereal consumption requirements, and imports of wheat in 2012/13 was estimated at 1 million tonnes.
history: The representation of 1 evolved from ancient Sumerian and Babylonian symbols to the modern Arabic numeral.
history: The Savior Officers, quickly becoming partisans of Freedom and Accord, soon created unrest in the capital Constantinople.
history: Colonial Algeria was marked by tensions between military rule and European settlers.
history: Algeria has struggled to develop industries outside hydrocarbons in part because of high costs and an inert state bureaucracy.
history: For Libya, the baladiyat are usually known in English as "districts" and sometimes as "municipalities", but the municipal level under the baladiyat and subsequent shabiyat systems was the Basic People's Congress.
history: These symbols directly represent the concept of 'one' without breaking it down into phonetic components.
history: He authored hundreds of books, articles, and book reviews concerning Levantine history, with his work
history: It can be regarded as a lingua franca of Algeria.
history: "Medical Responsibility in the Libyan Law".
history: Due to the underlying demonization of matter, Gnostic cosmologies depict the body as a form of prison of Adam's soul.
history: Oric Bates, a historian, considers that the name Libu or LBW would be derived from the name Luwatah whilst the name Luwatah is a derivation of the name Libu.
history: Multiplication: x · 0 = 0 · x = 0.
history: The many changes may not always be reflected in the linked article.
history: Tensions were also raised in other coastal cities, such as Tripoli, Sidon, Tyre, Acre, Haifa, and Jaffa, but their proximity to European warships in the Mediterranean helped maintain calm.
history: During reforestation, scientists experimented with a petrochemical spray that is sufficiently porous to allow rain to seep through, yet sturdy enough to prevent seedlings from being blown away during sandstorms.
history: Russian armies generally had success in the Caucasus campaign.
history: Gaddafi asserted that he was a devout Muslim, and his government was taking a role in supporting Islamic institutions and in worldwide proselytising on behalf of Islam.
history: Most Damascenes were not directly involved in the civil war in Mount Lebanon, but tensions in Damascus were raised by the arrival of Christian refugees.
history: After the raiders returned fire, Kıbrıslı Tevfik Bey was instantly killed.
history: The Act of Medical Responsibility (Law 17 of 1986), passed on 3 November 1986, stated that abortion was illegal "unless it is absolutely necessary to save the mother's life".
history: Greeks seemed unsure about the status of zero as a number.
history: They emphasized the absolute unity of God (Tawhid) and opposed what they viewed as Almoravid religious errors.
history: In some systems either the letter O or the numeral 0, or both, are excluded from use, to avoid confusion.
history: Scholars have raised entirely new questions regarding military occupation, radicalisation of politics, race, medical science, gender and mental health.
history: Liddell Hart (Decisive Wars of History), among many others, have written books in the style of Creasy's work.
history: Digits varied continuously from 0 to 12 to 0 as the Moon passed over the Sun (a triangular pulse), where twelve digits was the angular diameter of the Sun.
history: Tensions between Algeria and Morocco in relation to the Western Sahara have been an obstacle to tightening the Arab Maghreb Union, nominally established in 1989, but which has carried little practical weight.
history: Queen Elizabeth's royal court also decided not to host the annual Accession Day tilt celebrations for the month due to the possibility of contagion at the royal court.
history: The project aims to provide 800 hours of instruction per year to 3,300 elementary school students.
history: Information:  Not counting spaces, the text printed on 136 pages of an Encyclopædia Britannica, or 600 pages of pulp paperback fiction contains approximately one million characters.
history: The diseases that emerged in the trenches were a major killer on both sides.
history: A servant of the Spanish ambassador Juan de Tassis, 1st Count of Villamediana died in Oxford, and the diplomats were moved to Southampton.
history: The parliament survived for only two years before the sultan suspended it.
history: In response, God told Abimelech that he did indeed have a blameless heart and that is why he continued to exist.
history: Cities like Al-Qal’a' and Béjaïa flourished with scholars, poets, and architects.
history: Not long afterward, during the heat of the day, Abraham had been sitting at the entrance of his tent by the terebinths of Mamre.
history: 53,745,962,199 = number of secondary structures of RNA molecules with 31 nucleotides
54,875,873,536 = 2342562 = 4844 = 228
55,000,815,222 = number of parallelogram polyominoes with 31 cells.
history: He remained in the department, eventually becoming its chair, until 1990.
history: The Algerian economy became increasingly dependent on oil, leading to hardship when the price collapsed during the 1980s oil glut.
history: John had stationed troops).
history: But European socialists split on national lines, with the concept of class conflict held by radical socialists such as Marxists and syndicalists being overborne by their patriotic support for the war.
history: The rise of port cities saw the clustering of populations caused by the development of steamships and railroads.
history: ISBN 978-1-4875-5440-8.
history: Alcohol consumption is illegal.
history: This 1603–1618 war eventually resulted in the Treaty of Nasuh Pasha, which ceded the entire Caucasus, except westernmost Georgia, back into the possession of Safavid Iran.
history: On 8 October, the Hindenburg Line was pierced by British and Dominion troops of the First and Third British Armies at the Second Battle of Cambrai.
history: The only exceptions were campaigns against the Safavid dynasty of Persia, where many of the Ottoman eastern provinces were lost, some permanently.
history: Non-hydrocarbon growth for 2011 was projected at 5%.
history: The Druze, backed by an Ottoman commander of irregulars named Ibrahim Agha, and Maronite fighters burned down the houses of the rival sect in Beit Mery.
history: The law does not specify what qualifies as life-saving.
history: These combats often take place within the time and space of a battle and while they may have an objective, they are not necessarily "decisive".
history: In 647 an army led by Abdullah ibn Saad took Tripoli from the Byzantines definitively.
history: According to Charities Aid Foundation (CAF), in a typical month, almost three-quarters (72%) of all Libyans helped somebody they did not know – the third highest level across all 135 countries surveyed.
history: The title of pasha began to assume its hereditary status.
history: Sponge fishing was monopolized by Greek fishers.
history: 67,883 primes between 2,000,000 and 3,000,000.
history: The orientalist Mario Liverani has proposed to see in the name Abraham the eponymous ancestor of a 13th-century BCE tribe, the Raham, mentioned in a stele of Seti I found at Beth-Shean and dating back to around 1289 BCE.
history: The coup occurred in the context of toxic partisanship in the Ottoman Empire between the CUP and the Freedom and Accord Party, coming after a fraudulent general election and another coup the year before.
history: In April 2022, diplomats from Italy and Spain held talks after Rome's move to secure large volume of Algerian gas stoked concerns in Madrid.
history: In Giado, some 500 Jews died of weakness, hunger, and disease.
history: and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear [a child]?'"
Immediately after Abraham's encounter with God, he had his entire household of men, including himself (age 99) and Ishmael (age 13), circumcised.
history: While Pan-Slavic and Orthodox Russia considered itself the protector of Serbia and other Slav states, they preferred the strategically vital Bosporus straits to be controlled by a weak Ottoman government, rather than an ambitious Slav power like Bulgaria.
history: The Libyan Amazigh High Council (LAHC) has declared the Amazigh (Berber or Tamazight) language to be official in the cities and districts inhabited by the Berbers in Libya.
history: The usage of French persists, especially in media, education, and certain administrative matters, but has no official status.
history: However, the Russian withdrawal from the war in 1917 led Armenian and Assyrian forces to be cut off from supply lines, outnumbered, outgunned and isolated, forcing them to fight and flee towards British lines in northern Mesopotamia.
history: The art of carpet weaving was particularly significant in the Ottoman Empire, carpets having an immense importance both as decorative furnishings, rich in religious and other symbolism and as a practical consideration, as it was customary to remove one's shoes in living quarters.
history: There were around 3 trillion trees on Earth in 2015.
history: This action introduced death and sin into the world.
history: The View from Istanbul: Ottoman Lebanon and the Druze Emirate.
history: Known as the "Lion of the Shouf" and the "Sheikh of the Jazeera," he was the head of the Druze Spiritual Council and a key figure in the post-war reconciliation of Mount Lebanon.
history: The Iranian bāy (through connection with Old Indian noun bhāgá "possessions, lot") gave the now-obsolete Turkish word bay (rich); compare Mongolian Bayan.
history: 1012 metres (a terametre) is over six times the distance from the Earth to the Sun.
history: Other estimates claim 380 Christian villages were destroyed.
history: Libya is a developing country ranking 115th by HDI, and has the 10th-largest proven oil reserves in the world.
history: The Italian legal code remained in effect for the duration of the war.
history: January 5 – Giulio Clovio, Dalmatian painter (b.
history: He owned a stud farm of purebred horses.
history: A continuing series of protests throughout the country started on 28 December 2010, inspired by similar protests across the Middle East and North Africa.
history: The Phoenicians were the first to establish trading posts in Libya.
history: In 1804, the world population was one billion.
history: In 2014, Libya won the African Nations Championship after beating Ghana in the finals.
history: Yusuf prepared an army in the Fezzan for a major expedition against Bornu, but he needed external assistance to fund the campaign.
history: The Art of Dying Well, Visual culture in times of piety and plague in Malta, 1675–1814.
history: A respiratory illness seemed to have menaced the Canton of Aargua in June, with the population falling ill with sniffling, coughing, and fatigue.
history: On 11 September, the Australian Naval and Military Expeditionary Force landed on the island of New Britain, then part of German New Guinea.
history: Austro-Hungarian authorities encouraged subsequent anti-Serb riots in Sarajevo.
history: There are also many foreign communities in Algeria, though these do not make up a significant portion of the population.
history: Swayd, Samy S.
history: In 1944, Idris returned from exile in Cairo but declined to resume permanent residence in Cyrenaica until the removal in 1947 of some aspects of foreign control.
history: Negotiations with President Wilson began immediately, in the hope that he would offer better terms than the British and French.
history: Sultan Mehmet II ordered Georgios Amiroutzes, a Greek scholar from Trabzon, to translate and make available to Ottoman educational institutions the geography book of Ptolemy.
history: The four Druze chiefs were released after paying a heavy fine.
history: The entire system was regulated from above by means of the administrative Qanun, i.e., laws, a system based upon the Turkic Yassa and Töre, which were developed in the pre-Islamic era.
history: The Algerian War was one of the most important Third World anti-colonial struggles.
history: The most common form of public transport between cities is the bus, though many people travel by automobile.
history: In Urbino, "diet and good governance" were recognized as common ways sufferers managed their illness.
history: The Spanish–Ottoman wars took place primarily in the Mediterranean.
history: This was especially beneficial to the leadership after the international 1973 oil crisis.
history: The Unix epoch begins the midnight before the first of January 1970.
history: These include 309 deaths in Qormi, 270 in Żabbar, 169 in Żebbuġ and 88 in Rabat.
history: As the largest group of non-Muslim subjects, the Rum Millet enjoyed several special privileges in politics and commerce; however, Jews and Armenians were also well represented among the wealthy merchant class, as well as in public administration.
history: In bicycle racing, annual Tour of 10,000 Lakes Stage Race in Minneapolis.
history: RADP; Standard Algerian Berber: Tagduda tazzayrit tamagdayt taɣerfant, ⵜⴰⴳⴷⵓⴷⴰ ⵜⴰⵣⵣⴰⵢⵔⵉⵜ ⵜⴰⵎⴰⴳⴷⴰⵢⵜ ⵜⴰⵖⴻⵔⴼⴰⵏⵜ).
history: At this point, Kâmil Pasha's government signed an armistice with Bulgaria in December 1912 and sat down to draw up a treaty for the end of the war at the London Peace Conference.
history: Algeria is included in the European Union's European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) which aims at bringing the EU and its neighbours closer.
history: He was also mentioned as the father of thirty nations.
history: Both Atlas tend to merge in eastern Algeria.
history: A rebellion that originated in Moldavia as a diversion was followed by the main revolution in the Peloponnese, which, along with the northern part of the Gulf of Corinth, became the first parts of the Ottoman Empire to achieve independence (in 1829).
history: 1,921,525,212 : number of partitions of 264 into divisors of 264
1,934,502,740 : number of parallelogram polyominoes with 27 cells.
history: The Bank's name was changed to Bank of Libya under Act no.
history: During the rebellion of the Jordan River cities, Sodom and Gomorrah, against Elam, Abram's nephew, Lot, was taken prisoner along with his entire household by the invading Elamite forces.
history: On 28 August 2020, the BBC Africa Eye and BBC Arabic Documentaries revealed that a drone operated by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) killed 26 young cadets at a military academy in Tripoli, on 4 January.
history: This became a problem for the herdsmen, who were assigned to each family's cattle.
history: The treaty ending the Cretan War cost Venice much of Dalmatia, its Aegean island possessions, and Crete.
history: The kingdom also had three capital cities: Tripoli, Benghazi and Bayda.
history: Victory in the 1870–1871 Franco-Prussian War allowed Bismarck to consolidate a German Empire.
history: Also on 5 November 1914, the British government changed the status of the Khedivate of Egypt and Cyprus, which were de jure Ottoman territories prior to the war, to British protectorates.
history: According to modern historiography, there is a direct connection between the rapid Ottoman military advance and the consequences of the Black Death from the mid-14th century onwards.
history: However the exact scope of power handed to the beys varied with each country, thus there was no clear-cut system, rigidly applied to all countries defining all the possible power and prestige that came along with the title.
history: The Arabic-language inheritance of science was largely Greek, followed by Hindu influences.
history: The Zahalni had not concentrated their fortifications at Zahle's north because they expected that side of town to be safe due to the heavy Christian presence there.
history: The course of the epidemic was somewhat variable and it went through a number of ebbs and flows, and it spread extensively throughout the main island of Malta at its peak, particularly the densely populated urban area around the Grand Harbour.
history: Macro- and micro-economic consequences devolved from the war.
history: Unlike his predecessor Ahmed Muhtar Pasha, who had been non-partisan, Kâmil Pasha was an ardent anti-Unionist and was determined to use his premiership to destroy the CUP.
history: In the 19th and early 20th centuries, persecution of Muslims during the Ottoman contraction and in the Russian Empire resulted in large-scale loss of life and mass migration into modern-day Turkey from the Balkans, Caucasus, and Crimea.
history: Algerian society was deeply influenced by religion and absolute rule, with education centered on religious studies under clerical authority.
history: This "earthly" aspect is a component of Adam's identity, and Adam's curse of estrangement from the earth seems to describe humankind's divided nature of being earthly yet separated from nature.
history: This meant that general administration, including epidemic protocol, was handled by church officials.
history: In the rural settlements, about 2,000 of some 29,000 people died, or 6.9% of the population (one source gives a death toll of only 200).
history: In the early post-war period, Tripolitania and Cyrenaica remained under British administration, while the French controlled Fezzan.
history: During the colonial period, there was a large (10% in 1960) European population who became known as Pied-Noirs.
history: By 1997, about 17% of the labor force worked in agriculture.
history: In the ranks of both Roman Empire and Ancient Carthage, they completely overturned the tide of battle in Cannae for Hannibal and Battle of Zama for Scipio Africanus.
history: In Western Europe, the names Ottoman Empire, Turkish Empire and Turkey were often used interchangeably, with Turkey being increasingly favoured both in formal and informal situations.
history: Widespread surveillance of the population was carried out through Gaddafi's Revolutionary Committees.
history: He was executed c.
history: On 3 September 1840, Bashir Shihab III was appointed emir of the Mount Lebanon Emirate by the Ottoman Sultan Abdulmejid I, succeeding his distant cousin, the once-powerful Bashir Shihab II.
history: A Serbian counter-attack in the Battle of Kolubara succeeded in driving them from the country by the end of 1914.
history: Reflecting the "nature of giving" (Arabic: الاحسان Ihsan, Berber languages: ⴰⵏⴰⴽⴽⴰⴼ Anakkaf), amongst the Libyan people as well as the sense of hospitality, the state of Libya made it to the top 20 on Charities Aid Foundation's World Giving Index in 2013.
history: To the residents of Damascus, the violence made such an impact that they started documenting the violence en masse.
history: The movement of large numbers of people was a major factor in the deadly Spanish flu pandemic.
history: Money: A U.S.
history: At this point, Ibrahim Pasha ordered Emir Bashir Shihab II, his ally, to send 1,000 men to Wadi al-Taym, where the clashes erupted on April 7.
history: Matteo Bonnici contracted the disease as well and died on 25 January.
history: 70,435 primes between 1,000,000 and 2,000,000.
history: The 1793–95 Tripolitanian civil war occurred in those years.
history: These were the major cities with high number of residents and visitors.
history: By 1848, European population stood at more than 100.000, and reached 244.600 by 1872.
history: The Allied Hundred Days Offensive, beginning in August 1918, caused a collapse of the German front line.
history: Algeria's territory has been a crossroads of cultures and civilizations for millennia, shaped first by indigenous Amazigh societies, including the Numidians, whose kingdom became one of the earliest major states in the region, as well as by Phoenician, Roman, Vandal, and Byzantine influences.
history: He died in 359.
history: By the mid-19th century, the Ottoman Empire was called the "sick man of Europe".
history: London's theatres, which had been temporarily closed by city authorities since a riot in June, had their shutdown orders extended to 29 December by the government.
history: A tiny percentage of the harvest was obtained by Libyans using small boats and skin-diving equipment from shallow waters inshore.
history: However, the Foreign Ministry had no solid proof of Serbian involvement.
history: Like the Ottoman regencies in Tunis and Algiers, the Regency of Tripoli was a major base for the privateering activities of the North African corsairs, who also provided revenues for Tripoli.
history: London's outer parish of Stepney was the first to record cases of bubonic plague shortly after the funeral of Queen Elizabeth.
history: This kind of dual representation is known as signed zero, with the latter form sometimes called negative zero.
history: Traditionally, many print typefaces made the capital letter O more rounded than the narrower, elliptical digit 0.
history: Even if some of them offer instruction in Arabic like areas of law and the economy, most of the other sectors such as science and medicine continue to be provided in French and English.
history: Surviving veterans returning home often found they could discuss their experiences only among themselves, so formed "veterans' associations" or "Legions".
history: The 400 Christians who had sheltered with Nayifa Jumblatt survived because she had them relocated initially to the Jumblatt stronghold of Moukhtara and from there to the port of Sidon, from which they were able to make it to Beirut on a Royal Navy warship.
history: An outcome of his studies there was his 1963 dissertation The Province of Damascus, 1723–1783, published under the same title in 1968.
history: The Ottoman Empire, with German support, invaded Persia (modern Iran) in December 1914 to cut off British and Russian access to petroleum reservoirs around Baku.
history: 1535)
April 15 – Wolrad II, Count of Waldeck-Eisenberg (b.
history: The 1675–1676 Malta plague epidemic was a major outbreak of plague (Maltese: pesta) on the island of Malta, then ruled by the Order of St John.
history: At least part of these forces were commanded by Sheikh Qasim Imad.
history: God passes judgment, first upon the serpent, condemned to go on his belly, then the woman, condemned to pain in childbirth and subordination to her husband, and finally Adam, who is condemned to labour on the earth for his food and to return to it on his death.
history: In 2016, a number of unions, many of which were involved in the 2010–2012 Algerian Protests, have been deregistered by the government.
history: Peter's Basilica, was rediscovered in 1597, and is now below the modern basilica in the Museo Storico del Tesoro della Basilica di San Pietro (Museum of St.
history: Sultan Abdülaziz (reigned 1861–1876) attempted to reestablish a strong Ottoman navy, building the largest fleet after those of Britain and France.
history: All these realms exist within the region between the eighth heaven and the Chaos beneath it.
history: A "battle" in this broader sense may be of long duration and take place over a large area, as in the case of the Battle of Britain or the Battle of the Atlantic.
history: Toronto: University of Toronto Press.
history: Albert Camus was an Algerian-born French Pied-Noir author.
history: This diverse cuisine was honed in the Imperial Palace's kitchens by chefs brought from certain parts of the Empire to create and experiment with different ingredients.
history: An extreme case are the twelve Battles of the Isonzo—First to Twelfth—between Italy and Austria-Hungary during the First World War.
history: In 1792, Spain abandoned Oran, selling it to the Deylik of Algiers.
history: The plan was substantially modified by his successor, Helmuth von Moltke the Younger.
history: The last 100 Druze rebels in Lajat were joined by another 400 Druze insurgents by 1839, and were reportedly devastated a village near Hasbaya.
history: Ptolemy's symbol was a placeholder as well as a number used by two continuous mathematical functions, one within another, so it meant zero, not none.
history: includ[ing] guiding principles...
history: The bank was established in the former Savings Bank building (Italian: Cassa di Risparmio della Tripolitania), designed in 1921 by Armando Brasini and completed in the early 1930s.
history: Algerian literature includes shocking expression, due to the terrorism that occurred during the 1990s.
history: In set theory, 0 is the cardinality of the empty set (notated as "{ }", "
  
    
      
        ∅
      
    
    {\textstyle \emptyset }
  
", or "∅"): if one does not have any apples, then one has 0 apples.
history: This proved effective in cutting off vital supplies, though it violated accepted international law.
history: Unable to defeat the Wahhabi rebels, the Sublime Porte had Muhammad Ali Pasha of Kavala, the vali (governor) of the Eyalet of Egypt, tasked with retaking Arabia, which ended with the destruction of the Emirate of Diriyah in 1818.
history: For Bismarck, the purpose of these agreements was to isolate France by ensuring the three empires resolved any disputes among themselves.
history: In March 2022, the House of Representatives ceased recognising the Government of National Unity and proclaimed an alternative government, the Government of National Stability (GNS).
history: 1299 by the Turkoman tribal leader Osman I.
history: The movement emphasized strict adherence to Maliki Sunni Islam.
history: The Central Powers knew that they could not win a protracted war, but they held high hopes for success in a final quick offensive.
history: The Elamite army came to collect the spoils of war, after having just defeated the king of Sodom's armies.
history: After the Italo-Turkish War (1911–1912), Italy simultaneously turned the three regions into colonies.
history: The ten existing governorates were replaced with forty-six baladiyat, but in 1988 that number was reduced to twenty-five baladiyat.
history: Despite the similarities, Stone argues that a crucial difference is that the land grants under the timar system were not hereditary at first.
history: 1,874,161 = 13692 = 374
1,889,568 = 185
1,928,934 = 2 x 39 x 72
1,941,760 = Leyland number
1,953,125 = 1253 = 59
1,978,405 = 16 + 26 + 36 + 46 + 56 + 66 + 76 + 86 + 96 + 106
history: These themes form "narrative programs" set out in Genesis 11:27–31 concerning the sterility of Sarah and Genesis 12:1–3 in which Abraham is ordered to leave the land of his birth for the land God will show him.
history: Christians hiding in cellars, rooftops, and latrines in the quarter were mostly found and attacked by the mobs, but most of those who hid in wells evaded detection and were rescued by Abd al-Qadir's men.
history: The living conditions led to disease and infection, such as trench foot, lice, typhus, trench fever, and the 'Spanish flu'.
history: The Italian mathematician Fibonacci (c.
history: There are 37,607,912,018 positive primes less than it.
history: It is a three-way, 1,216-kilometre-long (756 mi) highway, linking Annaba in the extreme east to the Tlemcen in the far west.
history: During the declining years of the Ottoman Empire, it effectively governed the Libyan interior.
history: Abdulrahim Abu-Husayn (1 March 1951 – 23 June 2022) was a Palestinian author, professor at the American University of Beirut (AUB)'s Department of History and Archaeology, and an honorary member of the Turkish Historical Society.
history: This organisation developed a scribal bureaucracy (known as "men of the pen") as a distinct group, partly highly trained ulama, which developed into a professional body.
history: The Chadian–Libyan War began in earnest when Libya's support of rebel forces in northern Chad escalated into an invasion.
history: Frayj, Shami and Shalhub complained to Ahmad Pasha about the incidents, prompting the latter to seek out the boys and publicly punish them.
history: The ancient Libu and Meshwesh plundered west into Zawyet Umm El Rakham, which allowed them trade with Mycenaeans, Cyprus, Levant and the Aegean people.
history: Modern battles resemble those of the Second World War, along with indirect combat through the use of aircraft and missiles which has come to constitute a large portion of wars in place of battles, where battles are now mostly reserved for capturing cities.
history: Several public health officials contracted the disease and died, and as the epidemic spread, the number of officials was doubled and more isolation hospitals were opened.
history: Any computation including a null value delivers a null result.
history: Many Christian settlers left to Italy or Malta after the independence.
history: This guide provides access to the Library's digital collections, external websites, and a selected print bibliography related to the Great War.
history: By 24 December 1951, Libya declared its independence as the United Kingdom of Libya, a constitutional and hereditary monarchy under King Idris.
history: Early Ottoman architecture experimented with multiple building types over the course of the 13th to 15th centuries, progressively evolving into the classical Ottoman style of the 16th and 17th centuries, which was also strongly influenced by the Hagia Sophia.
history: The French sent six thousand soldiers to the Levant in order to protect the Syrian Christians and increase their own power in the region.
history: The operation commenced on 21 March 1918, with an attack on British forces near Saint-Quentin.
history: Both officials were to be responsible to the governor of Sidon, who resided in Beirut.
history: They also intervened in al-Andalus (Spain), defeating Christian forces and extending their rule there.
history: 3,276,800,000 = 805
3,323,236,238 : 31st Wedderburn–Etherington number.
history: The Libu are attested since the Late Bronze Age as inhabiting the region (Egyptian R'bw, Punic: 𐤋𐤁𐤉‎ lby).
history: He is also mentioned in Quran as the "Father of Muslims", and is put forward as a role model for the community.
history: From the 16th century onward, it was divided into four political entities—from west to east—the Alawi Sultanate, the Regency of Algiers, the Regency of Tunis, and the Regency of Tripoli.
history: Certain pre-Islamic Turkish traditions that had survived the adoption of administrative and legal practices from Islamic Iran remained important in Ottoman administrative circles.
history: The Ottomans began to entrust local chieftains with the policing and taxation of the region by appointing them over the sanjaks of the region and granting them the title of bey (Turkish equivalent to the Arabic emir).
history: Eastern Libyans were nomadic shepherds east of Lake Tritonis.
history: 9,999,999,967 : greatest prime number with 10 digits
9,999,999,999 : largest 10-digit number, repdigit
history: A pitched battle is an encounter where opposing sides agree on the time and place of combat.
history: However, in some computer hardware signed number representations, zero has two distinct representations, a positive one grouped with the positive numbers and a negative one grouped with the negatives.
history: Using his friendly relations with the British, Kâmil Pasha also sat down to end the ongoing First Balkan War diplomatically.
history: In March, April and May 1860, numerous acts of murder, looting and skirmishing took place across the mixed Christian-Druze districts of southern Mount Lebanon in the Druze-run sector of the Double Qaimaqamate.
history: The representatives formed the Imperial Government of the Ottoman Empire.
history: On 24 September 1676, the end of the epidemic was celebrated with the clearing of barricades, firing of guns, ringing of bells and processions.
history: 1,421,542,641 : logarithmic number.
history: 3rd or 2nd century BC), a Sanskrit prosody scholar, used binary sequences, in the form of short and long syllables (the latter equal in length to two short syllables), to identify the possible valid Sanskrit meters, a notation similar to Morse code.
history: It clarified that the Algerian government imposed restrictions on freedom of the press; expression; and right to peaceful demonstration, protest and assembly as well as intensified censorship of the media and websites.
history: With the Russian Empire out of the war, Romania found itself alone on the Eastern Front and signed the Treaty of Bucharest with the Central Powers in May 1918.
history: Likewise, some scholars like Daniel E.
history: A wave of economic protests in February and March 2011 prompted the Algerian government to offer more than $23 billion in public grants and retroactive salary and benefit increases.
history: The Empire became a dominant naval force, controlling much of the Mediterranean Sea.
history: Britain still owed the United States $4.4 billion of World War I debt in 1934; the last installment was finally paid in 2015.
history: Andromeda Galaxy, Milky Way's neighbor, contains about 1012 stars.
history: 3,939,040,643 = 835
history: 'Sublime Ottoman State', or simply Devlet-i ʿOsmānīye (دولت عثمانيه‎), lit.
history: The second track was a free boarding school for the Christians, the Enderûn, which recruited 3,000 students annually from Christian boys between eight and twenty years old from one in forty families among the communities settled in Rumelia or the Balkans, a process known as Devshirme (Devşirme).
history: The title Bey, Baig or Begum, Begzada and Uç Bey are regarded as comparable to the European nobility with the title of Viscount, while Sancak-beys and Atabegs are considered to be of an equivalent rank to earls or counts in the context of European nobility.
history: Under the terms of the armistice of 31 May, the rebel chieftains left for independent Greece in June 1854.
history: The Revolution of November was followed in December by an armistice and negotiations with Germany.
history: Violence escalated dramatically after the FLN's brutal attacks in the Nord Constantinois in August 1955.
history: This conflict was mentioned in the Great Karnak Inscription in the western delta during the 5th and 6th years of his reign and resulted in a defeat for Meryey.
history: Abu-Husayn, A.
history: It is also a perfect power and a harshad number.
history: According to an Arab League report, based on data from 2010, unemployment for women stands at 18% while for the figure for men is 21%, making Libya the only Arab country where there are more unemployed men than women.
history: Many suffered years of prison, including solitary confinement.
history: Throughout the Lebanese Civil War and the subsequent peace process, he remained a neutral moral authority, famously hosting the "Mountain Reconciliation" meetings to restore harmony between the Druze and Christian populations of the Shouf.
history: permanent crops: 0.19%.
history: Fezzan acquired independence under Awlad Muhammad dynasty after Kanem rule.
history: Abraham was greatly distressed by his wife's words and sought the advice of his God.
history: The jurisdictional complexity of the Ottoman Empire was aimed to permit the integration of culturally and religiously different groups.
history: Combining alone with only (implying one-like) leads to lonely, conveying a sense of solitude.
history: In the first days of June, reports from the town to European consuls reported that starvation was beginning to set in.
history: Two principal etymologies have been proposed by scholars:
history: Of all the Algerian traditional dishes available, the most famous one is couscous, recognised as a national dish.
history: It was ruled by the valide sultan.
history: Enormous daily ranges in temperature are recorded.
history: Over time, Ptolemy's zero tended to increase in size and lose the overline, sometimes depicted as a large elongated 0-like omicron "Ο" or as omicron with overline "ō" instead of a dot with overline.
history: In places, decades may pass without seeing any rainfall at all, and even in the highlands rainfall seldom happens, once every 5–10 years.
history: French poet and historian Jean Bouchet, employed by King Louis XII's Royal Court, wrote that the epidemic "appeared in the entire Kingdom of France, as much in the towns as in the countryside."
Coqueluche filled up the hospitals in France.
history: Abd al-Mu'min became the first Almohad Caliph and completed the conquest of the Maghreb by 1147, unifying the region for the first time.
history: Each would follow the orders from their officers and fight as a unit instead of individuals.
history: The oldest known documented references to the Libu date to Ramesses II and his successor Merneptah, pharaohs of the Nineteenth Dynasty of Egypt, during the 13th century BC.
history: In 1811, the fundamentalist Wahhabis of Arabia, led by the al-Saud family, revolted against the Ottomans.
history: Homosexuality is illegal in Libya.
history: The crisis resulted in the collapse of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and the killing of Muammar Gaddafi, amidst the First Libyan Civil War and 2011 foreign military intervention.
history: They stockpiled ammunition and had hundreds of horses available for battle.
history: By the end of June, estimates of Christian refugees in Damascus ranged from 3,000 to 6,000, most of them Greek Orthodox.
history: The Italians emphasised infrastructure improvements and public works.
history: In keeping with this policy, the government maintains an immunisation programme.
history: 1547)
October 12 – Cornelius Gemma, Dutch astronomer and astrologer (b.
history: date – Fede Galizia, Italian painter
date unknown
Giambattista Andreini, Italian actor and playwright (d.
history: It is a regional power in North Africa and a middle power in global affairs, with the largest military budget in Africa.
history: On 1–4 May 1917, about 100,000 workers and soldiers of Petrograd, and after them, the workers and soldiers of other Russian cities, led by the Bolsheviks, demonstrated under banners reading "Down with the war!" and "all power to the Soviets!".
history: In 1995 they were replaced by shabiyat.
history: Libyan television broadcasts air programs mostly in Arabic though usually have time slots for English and French programs.
history: This treaty, as designed in the Conference of London, allowed the Sultan to retain his position and title.
history: Key Development Forecasts for Libya from International Futures
history: Before the French invasion the total population of Algeria was most likely between 3,000,000 and 5,000,000.
history: Then Abraham offered a pact by providing sheep and oxen to Abimelech.
history: By 1807 he was able to force all the tribes of Cyrenaica and the Fezzan, including the Awlad Sulayman, to submit to him, and brought the Fezzan under direct control.
history: In 1984 the population was 3.6 million, an increase from the 1.54 million reported in 1964.
history: Libya's native population of Arabs-Berbers as well as Arab migrants of various nationalities collectively make up 97% of the population as of 2014.
history: 1615) and the Damascene historians Shams al-Din Muhammad ibn Tulun (d.
history: Before 1958, agriculture was the country's main source of revenue, making up about 30% of GDP.
history: Abu-Husayn, Abdul-Rahim (1999).
history: Such abortions require the approval of a medical specialist and an ordinance about what action to take.
history: Kazakhstan's 10,000₸ banknote.
history: While at the tent entrance, Sarah overheard what was said and she laughed to herself about the prospect of having a child at their ages.
history: December 9 – After more than five years of combat in southern France, the Protestant Huguenot citadel of Ménerbes negotiates a surrender to its French Catholic attackers.
history: The country is facing a number of short-term and medium-term problems, including the need to diversify the economy, strengthen political, economic and financial reforms, improve the business climate and reduce inequalities among regions.
history: Football clubs were formed in other provinces too, such as Karşıyaka Sports Club (1912), Altay Sports Club (1914) and Turkish Fatherland Football Club (later Ülküspor) (1914) of İzmir.
history: Authorities privatised more than 100 government-owned companies after 2003 in industries including oil refining, tourism and real estate, of which 29 were 100% foreign owned.
history: In 1914 alone, louse-borne epidemic typhus killed 200,000 in Serbia.
history: Its southern part includes a significant portion of the Sahara.
history: In 2023, the Libyan health ministry announced the launch of the National Strategy for Primary Healthcare 2023–2028 to improve services provided by group clinics and health centres.
history: From 1711 to 1835, the Karamanli dynasty ruled the province as a de facto hereditary monarchy while remaining under nominal Ottoman suzerainty.
history: Liverani hypothesized that the members of the tribe of Raham called themselves "sons of Raham" (*Banu-Raham), so that the name of their eponymous ancestor would have been "father of Raham" (*Abu-Raham), that being the name of the patriarch Abraham.
history: With the discovery of oil in 1958, the size of the agriculture sector declined rapidly, accounting for less than 5% GDP by 2005.
history: About 8 million soldiers surrendered and were held in POW camps during the war.
history: A billion cubic inches would be a volume comparable to a large commercial building slightly larger than a typical supermarket.
history: Libya's increase in prosperity was accompanied by increased internal political repression, and political dissent was made illegal under Law 75 of 1973.
history: Contemporary Algerian cinema is varied in terms of genre, exploring a wider range of themes and issues.
history: Towards the end of the conflict, aircraft carriers were used for the first time, with HMS Furious launching Sopwith Camels in a raid to destroy the Zeppelin hangars at Tønder in 1918.
history: The latter was reassigned to the Safavid front within a few months and without his iron grip the territory of Sidon-Beirut drifted out of Tripoli's control and, in practice, reverted to Damascene oversight.
history: British and French attempted to convince Ziakas to cease hostilities and engage in talks with the Ottomans, but the latter refused.
history: These do not fork from a single couple at the same epoch, despite their names.
history: Most remarkable are the trilithons, some still standing, some fallen, which occur isolated or in rows, and consist of two squared uprights standing on a common pedestal that supports a huge transverse beam.
history: Between 2013 and 2018, nearly 700,000 migrants reached Italy by boat, many of them from Libya.
history: God then expels the man and woman from the garden, lest they eat of the Tree of Life and become immortal.
history: Abushagur was ousted after failing a second time to win parliamentary approval for a new cabinet.
history: 17: 241–247.
history: Two rioters were killed or wounded and the crowds briefly dispersed.
history: This death toll makes the epidemic Malta's deadliest plague outbreak.
history: The government strengthened in 2011 the job programmes introduced in 1988, in particular in the framework of the programme to aid those seeking work (Dispositif d'Aide à l'Insertion Professionnelle).
history: 1650)
Yamada Arinaga, Japanese retainer of the Shimazu clan (d.
history: The gates of the Aqsab Mosque leading to the Christian quarter were broken down by Kurdish irregulars from Salihiya, and as the mob approached the quarter, its Ottoman guards were ordered to fire into the crowds and to fire cannon shells into the air by their commander, Salih Zaki Bey Miralay.
history: Some sources give higher death tolls of 4,000, 2,000, 1,800 and 1,500 respectively for these four cities.
history: Also in 1984, the average index of food production per capita indicated a 6% decline from 1974 to 1976.
history: The new cabinet under Mahmud Shevket Pasha was made up of:
history: These excess deaths are estimated as 271,000 in 1918, plus another 71,000 in the first half of 1919 when the blockade was still in effect.
history: Around the British Empire, there were many patriotic funds, including the Royal Patriotic Fund Corporation, Canadian Patriotic Fund, Queensland Patriotic Fund and, by 1919, there were 983 funds in New Zealand.
history: It was heavily devastated during the Kitos War and almost depopulated of Greeks and Jews alike.
history: He looked up and saw three men in the presence of God.
history: The school offers two programmes: general or technical.
history: These conquests further solidified the Ottoman claim of being an Islamic caliphate, although Ottoman sultans had been claiming the title of caliph since the reign of Murad I (1362–1389).
history: Therefore, embracing more stringently that method of the Hindus, and taking stricter pains in its study, while adding certain things from my own understanding and inserting also certain things from the niceties of Euclid's geometric art.
history: Influenza hit the Kingdom of Portugal at the same time as it spread throughout Spain, with an impact that spread across the Atlantic Ocean.
history: Are we to abide seeing our honour trampled upon, our property seized and our unblemished religion reviled?
history: That same day, a Druze force attacked the town and burnt down Christian homes, forcing many other local Christians to seek shelter in the government house.
history: An intelligent and able man, Ahmed greatly expanded his city's economy, particularly through the employment of corsairs on crucial Mediterranean shipping routes; nations that wished to protect their ships from the corsairs were forced to pay tribute to the pasha.
history: Sanskrit भग / bhaga) meaning "lord" and "master".
history: Death and infection rates rose steadily during the winter months, even though low temperatures often slow down flea activity during plague epidemics.
history: All of the candidates who ran in the election, including the members of the winning slate, promised to appoint women to 30% of all senior government positions.
history: France mobilised 7.8 million men, of which 1.4 million died and 3.2 million were injured.
history: Odjak of Algiers Revolution
Tunisia
history: The French expeditionary corps of 6,000 soldiers, mainly from Châlons-sur-Marne, landed in Beirut on 16 August 1860.
history: Southern Libya, primarily Sebha, Kufra, Ghat, Ghadamis and Murzuk, is also inhabited by two other ethnic groups; the Tuareg and Toubou.
history: In December 1917, the Central Powers signed an armistice with Russia, thus freeing large numbers of German troops for use in the West.
history: A species of deer, the Barbary stag, inhabits the dense humid forests in the north-eastern areas.
history: An angel spoke with Hagar at the fountain on the way to Shur.
history: Agreements for joint fishing development were signed with several countries, including Tunisia and Spain.
history: The Turkish word for Ottoman (Osmanlı) originally referred to the tribal followers of Osman in the 14th century.
history: PMC 11149213.
history: What Happened to the Ancient Libyans?, Chasing Sources across the Sahara from Herodotus to Ibn Khaldun by Richard L.
history: A slashed zero (
  
    
      
        0
        
        
        
        
          
            /
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle 0\!\!\!{/}}
  
) is often used to distinguish the number from the letter (mostly in computing, navigation and in the military, for example).
history: In psychology, Ten Thousand Dreams Interpreted, or what's in a dream: a scientific and practical, by Miller, Gustavus Hindman (1857–1929).
history: Thus he creates his own realm, containing six universes and their worlds which are seven times better than the heavens of Chaos.
history: An element with a multiplicative inverse is called a unit, generalizing the role of 1.
history: Both armies were then so exhausted that no decisive move could be implemented, so they settled in trenches, with the vain hope of breaking through as soon as they could build local superiority.
history: Archivum Ottomanicum.
history: This complex mix of resentment, nationalism and insecurity helps explain why the pre-1914 Balkans became known as the "powder keg of Europe".
history: The pandemic's most memorable effects on the Ottoman army in Africa are recorded as part of the 1559 wave.
history: Sometimes a Bey was a territorial vassal within a khanate, as in each of the three zuzes under the Khan of the Kazakhs.
history: The effectiveness of this professional financial body stands behind the success of many great Ottoman statesmen.
history: As the boy grew, he became a skilled archer living in the wilderness of Paran.
history: Thomas Baker, an English consul stationed in Tripoli from 1679 to 1686, described a turbulent government, a dwindling treasury and an economy heavily reliant on piracy.
history: Their representative to the United Nations is Amar Bendjama.
history: Even after they became inheritable, land ownership in the Ottoman Empire remained highly insecure, and the sultan revoked land grants whenever he wished.
history: This was the first recorded instance that such cemeteries were established in Malta, and similar ones would also be set up in later major outbreaks of the disease, such as in 1675–1676 and 1813–1814.
history: It was intended to supplant terms applied to Ottoman Tripolitania, the coastal region of what is today Libya, having been ruled by the Ottoman Empire from 1551 to 1911 as the Eyalet of Tripolitania.
history: Prophets in the Quran: An Introduction to the Quran and Muslim Exegesis.
history: The Guardian probed and discovered the blatant violation of UN arms embargo by the UAE and Turkey on 7 October 2020.
history: Residents of areas of Valletta with high infection rates, including the Manderaggio, Arċipierku and French Street, were forbidden to leave their homes and they were provided with food.
history: Born in an oasis in Cyrenaica in 1890, Sayyid Idris assumed leadership of the Senussi at a young age.
history: General Beaufort d'Hautpoul was put in charge of the expeditionary force.
history: Port cities like Salonica, in Greece, saw its population rise from 55,000 in 1800 to 160,000 in 1912 and İzmir which had a population of 150,000 in 1800 grew to 300,000 by 1914.
history: These include the Government Library, the Ethnographic Museum, the Archaeological Museum, the National Archives, the Epigraphy Museum and the Islamic Museum.
history: It is the estimated diameter of Betelgeuse, a red supergiant star.
history: In this way, the Fatimids established a powerful North African empire that would not be rivalled until the rise of the Almoravids and Almohads.
history: The temporary hospital was demolished in October 1593, and pratique was granted in January 1594.
history: But there were other common genres, especially the mesnevî, a kind of verse romance and thus a variety of narrative poetry; the two most notable examples of this form are the Leyli and Majnun of Fuzuli and the Hüsn ü Aşk of Şeyh Gâlib.
history: Czechoslovakia, Italy, Poland, Romania and Yugoslavia received territories from the Dual Monarchy (while the formerly separate and autonomous Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia was incorporated into Yugoslavia).
history: Although the troubles had already been quelled by the Ottomans, the French expeditionary corps remained in Syria from August 1860 to June 1861, longer than the initially agreed period of six months.
history: It is also possible to find historic examples of the use of j or J as a substitute for the Arabic numeral 1.
history: Roman rule had a largely negative long-term impact on Berber society.
history: This was especially severe in the Jifara Plain, which has been Libya's single most productive agricultural region.
history: He heralds manda (knowledge) and the true path of enlightenment.
history: On land, influenza spread north from the Ottoman Empire over Wallachia to the Kingdom of Poland and Grand Duchy of Lithuania before moving west into continental Europe.
history: Many Libyan women travel to receive the procedure in other countries, such as neighboring Tunisia, where it is legal.
history: Technically, Libya remained an Italian possession administered by Britain and France, but at the Potsdam Conference in 1945 the Allies--Britain, the Soviet Union, and the United States--agreed that the Italian colonies seized during the war should not be returned to Italy.
history: London: John Murray.
history: Studies from the 1970s indicated that at any given time, about one-third of total arable land remained fallow and up to 45% of farms were under 10 ha.
history: For example, the Russian and Austria-Habsburg annexation of the Crimean and Balkan regions respectively saw large influxes of Muslim refugees—200,000 Crimean Tatars fleeing to Dobruja.
history: It turned the tide against the Ottomans on the Middle Eastern front, where they seemed to have the upper hand during the first two years of the war.
history: Until the 19th century, Ottoman prose did not develop to the extent that contemporary Divan poetry did.
history: In databases, it is possible for a field not to have a value.
history: The Ma'nid chief Qurqumaz, one of the principal targets of the expedition, died in hiding after refusing to surrender.
history: Whereas little known places such as Gozo and Mdina, weren't affected as they were able to get a hold of the disease quickly because they weren't close to the sea.
history: Ten Thousand Islands National Wildlife Refuge is situated in the lower end of the Fakahatchee and Picayune Strands of Big Cypress Swamp and west of Everglades National Park in Florida.
history: Meanwhile, unrest grew in Russia as Tsar Nicholas II remained at the front, with the home front controlled by Empress Alexandra.
history: They were largely armed with sticks and clubs, although a few carried axes, pistols or muskets.
history: Instead of the trench stalemate of 1915–1917, in the Second World War, battles developed where small groups encountered other platoons.
history: British soldiers of the war were initially volunteers but were increasingly conscripted.
history: Military and civilian observers from every major power closely followed the course of the war.
history: For the Christians, the fall of the strongest Christian town meant the loss of their principal support base, as the Zahalni supported other Christians in many earlier battles during the conflict.
history: Under Ivan IV (1533–1584), the Tsardom of Russia expanded into the Volga and Caspian regions at the expense of the Tatar khanates.
history: About this time, Friedrich Freiherr Kress von Kressenstein was relieved of his duties as the Eighth Army's commander, replaced by Djevad Pasha, and a few months later the commander of the Ottoman Army in Palestine, Erich von Falkenhayn, was replaced by Otto Liman von Sanders.
history: Ilan Pappé estimates that between 1928 and 1932 the Italian military "killed half the Bedouin population (directly or through disease and starvation in Italian concentration camps in Libya)."
history: When he completed his undergraduate studies in 1975, at the beginning of the Lebanese Civil War, he instead remained at AUB and continued his master's degree in anthropology, followed by the PhD program which he completed in 1982.
history: 1498)
January 6 – Queen Inseong, Korean royal consort (b.
history: Retrieved August 19, 2020.
history: Examples include Oric Bates in his book The Eastern Libyans.
history: 4,294,968,320 : Leyland number using 2 and 32 (232 + 322)
4,295,032,832 : Leyland number using 4 and 16 (416 + 164)
4,437,053,125 = 855
4,444,444,444 : repdigit
4,467,033,943 : number of parallelogram polyominoes with 28 cells.
history: Libya has a population of about 6.7 million, 27.7% of whom are under the age of 15.
history: The earliest blade industries in North Africa are called Iberomaurusian (located mainly in the Oran region).
history: Folklore of the Holy Land.
history: On 5 September 1817, Yusuf Karamanli invited the leaders of the Libyan tribe of Al-Jawazi to his castle in Benghazi, following a dispute regarding tribute and an uprising against his rule.
history: In June 2024 The World Bank's 2024 report marks a turning point for Algeria, which joins the select club of upper-middle-income countries.
history: However, elections are routinely criticised by opposition groups as unfair and international human rights groups say that media censorship and harassment of political opponents continue.
history: The Libyan Desert, which covers most of Libya, is one of the most arid and sun-baked places on Earth.
history: The sculpture was donated to the Miami Art Museum after the artist's death in 2000.
history: The Berbers supplied them with goods, slaves, and skilled cavalry through trans-Saharan networks.
history: Up to 34 Christian villages in the Beqaa Valley were plundered and burned, with many houses and churches destroyed, and harvests and livestock taken.
history: Algeria has not joined the WTO, despite several years of negotiations but is a member of the Greater Arab Free Trade Area, the African Continental Free Trade Area, and has an association agreement with the European Union.
history: Hindenburg and Ludendorff concluded that the strategic and operational balance had now shifted decidedly against the Central Powers and, a day after the Bulgarian collapse, insisted on an immediate peace settlement.
history: A related rumor among the Muslims held that 72 Christian notables had signed a petition calling for a Christian king to rule Zahle and Mount Lebanon.
history: During the 2011 revolution, 768,362 immigrants fled Libya as calculated by the IOM, around 13% of the population at the time, although many more stayed on in the country.
history: Bouteflika was re-elected in the April 2004 presidential election after campaigning on a programme of national reconciliation.
history: Lebanon: A History, 600–2011.
history: The Journal of African History.
history: According to manuscripts by John Stow kept at Lambeth Library, weekly bills of mortality for 1563 show the first 17 recorded plague deaths for the week ending 12 June.
history: Abraham is also mentioned in the Divine Liturgy of Basil the Great, just before the Anaphora, and Abraham and Sarah are invoked in the prayers said by the priest over a newly married couple.
history: However, thousands of Christians remained in Deir al-Qamar and the Druze militiamen were preventing many from leaving.
history: Later tribal names differ from the Egyptian ones, but probably, some tribes were named in the Egyptian sources, as well as the later ones.
history: ISBN 978-0-19-532713-7.
history: The Hoggar Mountains (Arabic: جبال هقار), also known as the Hoggar, are a highland region in central Sahara, southern Algeria.
history: In pre-Islamic time the word ṣifr (Arabic صفر) had the meaning "empty".
history: This development programme is meant to advance alternative energy production, especially solar and wind power.
history: On 7 December 1842, the sultan adopted the proposal and asked the governor of Damascus to divide the region into two districts: a northern district under a Christian deputy governor and a southern district under a Druze deputy governor.
history: In the three years after November 1945, more than 140 Jews were murdered, and hundreds more wounded, in a series of pogroms.
history: However, in the 1970s, new arguments concerning Israel's past and the biblical texts challenged these views; these arguments can be found in Thomas L.
history: 0 may also refer to:
history: The word zero came into the English language via French zéro from the Italian zero, a contraction of the Venetian zevero form of Italian zefiro, itself borrowed from Arabic ṣafira or ṣifr.
history: In October 2010, Gaddafi apologised to African leaders on behalf of Arab nations for their involvement in the trans-Saharan slave trade.
history: A new Egyptian force, led by Minikly Pasha, Egyptian Minister of War, and Sharif Pasha was again defeated by some 2,000 Druze insurgents.
history: The symptoms included fever, headaches and buboes.
history: The plague spread in Malta in various waves, the first of which began in June 1592.
history: Charles XII persuaded the Ottoman Sultan Ahmed III to declare war on Russia, which resulted in an Ottoman victory in the Pruth River Campaign of 1710–1711, in Moldavia.
history: However, Dbeibeh announced his candidacy for president despite the ban in November 2021.
history: The use of French in the media persisted until the end of the empire in 1923 and for a few years thereafter in the Republic of Turkey.
history: In early July, tensions still mounted as the Druze rebels captured an Egyptian garrison outside of Safed.
history: Many Christians and Jews converted to Islam to secure full social and legal status, though most continued to practice their faith without restriction.
history: On 19 March, the first act of NATO allies to secure the no-fly zone began by destroying Libyan air defences when French military jets entered Libyan airspace on a reconnaissance mission heralding attacks on enemy targets.
history: Inhabitants of Valletta were buried in a cemetery on the Isolotto (now known as Manoel Island), while those of Cospicua and Senglea were buried in cemeteries outside the cities' fortifications.
history: The Ottoman Empire had a wide variety of Islamic sects, including Druze, Ismailis, Alevis, and Alawites.
history: The majority of Libya's population is Arab.
history: Ancient Libya was one of the three continents of the ancient world  (Libya, Asia, and Europa).
history: A decimal place value grapheme for zero was developed in India.
history: From 1943 to 1951, Libya was under Allied occupation.
history: In baseball, on July 15, 2007, the Philadelphia Phillies became the first team in American professional sports history to lose 10,000 games.
history: 1639)
July 9 – Ferdinand II, Holy Roman Emperor (d.
history: This is understood to mean either that he is God's deputy, the initiation of a new cycle of sentient life on earth, or both.
history: 4,822,382,628 : number of primitive polynomials of degree 38 over GF(2)
4,984,209,207 : 875
history: In the Ottoman period, the lords of the semi-autonomous Mani Peninsula used the title of beis (μπέης); for example, Petros Mavromichalis was known as Petrobey.
history: When Enver Bey arrived in front of the Ministry of Public Works (Turkish: Nafıa Nazırlığı) building, fellow CUP members Ömer Naci and Ömer Seyfettin were already provoking a crowd that had gathered by loudly proclaiming that Kâmil Pasha was about to cede Adrianople to the Bulgarians.
history: According to the memoirs of future Turkish president and prime minister Celâl Bayar, Nazım Pasha angrily shouted at the men, "What is going on?
history: V." 2d ed., p.
history: Between the 8th and 15th centuries, Algeria was ruled by a succession of local Islamic dynasties including Rustamids, Fatimids, Zirids, Hammadids, Almohads and Zayyanids .
history: In this period, the Ottoman Empire spent only small amounts of public funds on education; for example, in 1860–1861 only 0.2% of the total budget was invested in education.
history: The Ottoman troops and their local backers blocked the roads to the coast and the Beqaa Valley and killed about 500 Druze elders.
history: Beginning on 12 August, the Austrians and Serbs clashed at the battles of the Cer and Kolubara; over the next two weeks, Austrian attacks were repulsed with heavy losses.
history: This opinion has also been alluded to and accepted by Islamic scholars of different sects.
history: Ibn Khaldun, who dedicated the main part of his book Kitab el'ibar, which is known as "The history of the Berbers", did not use the names Libya and Libyans, but instead used Arabic names: The Old Maghreb, (El-Maghrib el-Qadim), and the Berbers (El-Barbar or El-Barabera(h)).
history: 24,466,267,020 = Catalan number
24,794,911,296 = 1574642 = 29163 = 546
25,209,506,681 = Markov prime
25,600,000,000 = 1600002 = 4004 = 208
25,669,818,476 = 26th Motzkin number.
history: Throughout history, church leaders, following Paul, have emphasized Abraham as the spiritual father of all Christians.
history: In probability theory, 0 is the smallest allowed value for the probability of any event.
history: The effects of climate change in Libya, such as desertification, sea level rise, flooding, and irregular weather patterns are already noticeable and are expected to increase.
history: A bey could maintain a similar office within Arab states that broke away from the High Porte, such as Egypt and Sudan under the Muhammad Ali Dynasty, where it was a rank below pasha (maintained in two rank classes after 1922), and a title of courtesy for a pasha's son.
history: Other parties included the Movement of the Society for Peace which won 65 seats, the National Rally for Democracy which won 58 seats, the Future Front which won 48 seats, and the National Construction Movement which won 39 seats.
history: Following the Druzes' capture of Hasbaya, their forces proceeded to assault the government house.
history: The widespread use of decimal systems is believed to be because humans have ten fingers and ten toes, which people may have used to count by.
history: Gezinski, Lindsay B.
history: Ingrassia approached epidemic responses as a collaboration between healthcare and government officials, and was the first known "health care professional" to propose that a system for monitoring epidemics of contagious catarrhal fevers would aid in early detection and epidemic control.
history: Consequently, the European great powers requested for the Ottoman sultan to establish order in Lebanon, and he attempted to do so by establishing a new council in each of the districts.
history: These three parts are still distinguishable—2b–7a, 7b–33b, 34a and b.
history: Algerian nationalism emerged before World War I through moderate, French-educated Jeunes Algériens, who demanded genuine assimilation and equal rights.
history: 180 in July 2013, creating the baladiyah.
history: Wilson:List of asteroids (9001-10000).
history: The practice of calculating on paper using Hindu–Arabic numerals only gradually displaced calculation by abacus and recording with Roman numerals.
history: Rules governing the use of zero appeared in Brahmagupta's Brahmasputha Siddhanta (7th century), which states the sum of zero with itself as zero, and incorrectly describes division by zero in the following way:
history: Algeria's first president was the Front de Libération Nationale (FLN) leader Ahmed Ben Bella.
history: Under Ben Bella, the government had become increasingly socialist and authoritarian; Boumédienne continued this trend.
history: 1,392,251,012 : number of secondary structures of RNA molecules with 27 nucleotides
1,405,695,061 : Markov prime.
history: Binary coding is convenient for digital electronics, where "0" and "1" can stand for the absence or presence of electrical current in a wire.
history: These "tit-for-tat" liquidations often involved the summary execution of adult males and the burning of property.
history: The Fatimid da'wa entered the Maghreb through the skilled Ismaili Shia missionary Abu Abdullah al-San'ani (al-Shi'i), who arrived around 900 and settled among the Kabyle Kutama Berbers near Sétif.
history: The Byzantines then faced resistance from the Moorish tribes of the Aurès Mountains.
history: Overall, Milan suffered approximately 60,000 fatalities out of a total population of 130,000.
history: The Neopythagorean philosopher Nicomachus of Gerasa's number treatise, as recovered by Boethius in the Latin translation Introduction to Arithmetic, affirmed that one is not a number, but the source of number.
history: Its contemporary meaning is "ample" or "baggy" (when referring to clothing).
history: Basic education in Libya is free for all citizens, and is compulsory up to the secondary level.
history: The Middle Ages also saw several Arabic writers who contributed to Arab literature, with authors like Ahmad al-Buni, Ibn Manzur and Ibn Khaldun, who wrote the Muqaddimah while staying in Algeria.
history: An Introduction to the New Testament: History, Literature, Theology.
history: The Zirid state gradually weakened and fragmented.
history: In mid-2013, AARC had already supported a total of 78 films, including 42 feature films, 6 short films and 30 documentaries.
history: All foreign operators must work in partnership with Sonatrach, which usually has majority ownership in production-sharing agreements.
history: Conquests or demographic movement towards the Algerian territory were two of the main factors of exchanges between the different peoples and cultures.
history: In addition, the French destroyed over 8,000 villages and relocated over 2 million Algerians to concentration camps.
history: A rally of men stood outside of Lot's home and demanded that Lot bring out his guests so that they may "know" (v.
history: Its population density is about 50 inhabitants per square kilometre (130/sq mi) in the two northern regions of Tripolitania and Cyrenaica, but falls to less than 1 inhabitant per square kilometre (2.6/sq mi) elsewhere.
history: Generals and commanders also play an important role, Hannibal, Julius Caesar, Khalid ibn Walid, Subutai and Napoleon Bonaparte were all skilled generals and their armies were extremely successful at times.
history: The Second Civil War began in May 2014 following fighting between rival parliaments with tribal militias and jihadist groups soon taking advantage of the power vacuum.
history: Baladiyah is an Arabic word used in many Arab countries to denote administrative divisions of a country.
history: For example, 1012 bits of data is called a terabit, 1012 joules of energy is called a terajoule, and 1012 watts of power is called a terawatt.
history: The body controlled swaths of the Ottoman economy, and used its position to ensure that European capital continued to penetrate the empire, often to the detriment of local Ottoman interests.
history: After failing to unite with other rebel bands he entrenched his troops in the mountain village of Spilaio.
history: In May 2018 Libya's rival leaders agreed to hold parliamentary and presidential elections following a meeting in Paris.
history: His face is currently printed on the Libyan ten dinar note in memory and recognition of his patriotism.
history: ISBN 978-967-5062-56-8.
history: Van Seters examined the patriarchal stories and argued that their names, social milieu, and messages strongly suggested that they were Iron Age creations.
history: UN support for the SRSG-led process of dialogue carried on in addition to the usual work of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL).
history: According to Minadoi's account he entered the Golden Horn with 24 galleys and received a welcome by a volley of artillery fire from the Topkapi Palace and large crowds.
history: Ben Bella was overthrown in 1965 by Houari Boumédiène, his former ally and defence minister.
history: At its peak, the Karamanli dynasty's influence reached Cyrenaica and Fezzan, covering most of Libya.
history: Some of the more notable aerial battles in this period include the Battle of Britain and the Battle of Midway.
history: The book cannot be shown to predate the 13th century, but may in parts date back to Late Antiquity, and like other obscure ancient texts such as the Bahir and Sefer Yetzirah, it has been extant in a number of versions.
history: The traditional shadow play called Karagöz and Hacivat was widespread throughout the Ottoman Empire and featured characters representing all of the major ethnic and social groups in that culture.
history: 1653)
September 11 – Vincenzo Maculani, Italian Catholic cardinal (d.
history: The resolution sanctioned the establishment of a no-fly zone and the use of "all means necessary" to protect civilians within Libya.
history: The SMS Dresden escaped with a few auxiliaries, but after the Battle of Más a Tierra, these too were either destroyed or interned.
history: On 24 December 1951, as King Idris I, he addressed the nation via radio from Benghazi.
history: At the outset of the 20th century, its population was approximately 4 million.
history: One popular manual was written by Johannes de Sacrobosco in the early 1200s and was one of the earliest scientific books to be printed, in 1488.
history: air offensive included flights of B-2 stealth bombers, each bomber armed with sixteen 2000-pound bombs, flying out of and returning to their base in Missouri.
history: It has a budget of €15.4 billion and provides the bulk of funding through a number of programmes.
history: Quipu, a knotted cord device, used in the Inca Empire and its predecessor societies in the Andean region to record accounting and other digital data, is encoded in a base ten positional system.
history: International Journal of Middle East Studies.
history: The plunder in Deir al-Qamar ended on 23 June, after intervention by Sa'id Jumblatt, Bashir Nakad, sheikhs from the Hamada clan, and an Ottoman colonel.
history: The British sent an investigative team, led by Lord Dufferin, in order to investigate the massacres and prevention of possible repetitions.
history: This was accentuated by British and Russian support for France against Germany during the 1911 Agadir Crisis.
history: A symbol for zero, a black dot, is used throughout the Bakhshali manuscript, a practical manual on arithmetic for merchants.
history: Battle in the 20th and 21st centuries is defined as the combat between large components of the forces in a military campaign, used to achieve military objectives.
history: The mechanisms by which this came about remain unknown, but there are currently at least two hypotheses.
history: Urbanisation increased from 1700 to 1922, with towns and cities growing.
history: Bowen, Donna Lee (May 1997).
history: In this version of the story she is the daughter of Poseidon and Tritonis a Libyan lake nymph.
history: Early on the morning of 4 August, the Germans invaded, and Albert I of Belgium called for assistance under the Treaty of London.
history: Abraham purchases a tomb (the Cave of the Patriarchs) at Hebron to be Sarah's grave, thus establishing his right to the land; and, in the second generation, his heir Isaac is married to a woman from his own kin to earn his parents' approval.
history: Battles affect the commitment of one side or the other to the continuance of a war, for example the Battle of Inchon and the Battle of Huế during the Tet Offensive.
history: Several types of poison gas were used by both sides.
history: Some modern scholars consider the millet system to be an early example of religious pluralism, as it accorded minority religious groups official recognition and tolerance.
history: Areas of jungle and forest, with dense vegetation act as force-multipliers, of benefit to inferior armies.
history: Over a 75‑year period, the Ottoman Turks provided 33 governors and Libya remained part of the empire until Italy invaded for the second time in 1911.
history: Contemporary chroniclers and those who have read their accounts observed how entire populations were attacked at once, which is how the disease first received the name influenza (from the belief that such outbreaks were caused by influences like stars or cold).
history: The country has one major fishing port (Zliten), one tuna plant and two sardine factories with small processing capacities (1,000 metric tons per year each).
history: As Carthaginian power grew, its impact on the indigenous population increased dramatically.
history: Over the course of Ottoman history, the Ottomans managed to build a large collection of libraries complete with translations of books from other cultures, as well as original manuscripts.
history: In addition, multiple peace proposals were coming from neutrals, or one side or the other; none of them progressed very far.
history: 81,749,606,400 = double factorial of 22
81,787,109,376 = 1-automorphic number
82,653,950,016 = 2874962 = 43563 = 666
82,864,869,804 = 17th Bell number.
history: Many countries jailed those who spoke out against the conflict.
history: The solution to this is (1+9+6+8+3) (1+9+6+8+3) (1+9+6+8+3), which is (27)(27)(27), which equals to 19683.
history: The administrative divisions have changed several times since independence.
history: When she found Ishmael teasing Isaac, Sarah told Abraham to send both Ishmael and Hagar away.
history: Genesis 3, the account of the Fall: A serpent persuades the woman to disobey God's command and eat of the tree of knowledge, which gives wisdom.
history: He then liberated Ubayd Allah al-Mahdi from prison in Sijilmasa and handed him power.
history: Total Allied casualties on the Ottoman fronts amounted to 650,000 men.
history: A Byzantine defeat at the Battle of Bapheus in 1302 contributed to Osman's rise.
history: The Keserwan uprising had a revolutionary effect on other regions in Lebanon.
history: In Sluglett, Peter; Weber, Stefan (eds.).
history: There are no further mentions of Druze rebellions or government expeditions in the sources until the late 16th century.
history: This radicalized the movement.
history: The king of Sodom then offered to let Abram keep all the possessions if he would merely return his people.
history: In Algeria forest cover is around 1% of the total land area, equivalent to 1,949,000 hectares (ha) of forest in 2020, up from 1,667,000 hectares (ha) in 1990.
history: The Iberians were leaders of the Christian crusaders, and so the two fought in a worldwide conflict.
history: Between these areas is a 50 km land strip with enough scrub vegetation to support livestock.
history: In that same report, 69.5% of Algerians identified as religious and another 27.8% identifying as somewhat religious.
history: The critical points to end the rebellion were the water war, engaged by Egyptian forces upon the Druze population and the effective defeat of the main insurgent force in Wadi al-Taym.
history: Britain turned to her colonies for help in obtaining essential war materials whose supply from traditional sources had become difficult.
history: Many of the earliest Long Count dates were found within the Olmec heartland, although the Olmec civilization ended by the 4th century BC, several centuries before the earliest known Long Count dates.
history: Most institutions that served all ethnic and religious groups taught in French or other languages.
history: 1507)
March 3
Sebastiano Venier, Doge of Venice (b.
history: Most ancient naval battles were fought by fast ships using the battering ram to sink opposing fleets or steer close enough for boarding in hand-to-hand combat.
history: According to the UNHCR, there were around 8,000 registered refugees, 5,500 unregistered refugees, and 7,000 asylum seekers of various origins in Libya in January 2013.
history: "Tripoli" .
history: The Sultanate of Women (1533–1656) was a period during which imperial women, especially the consorts and mothers of sultans, exercised significant political influence in the Ottoman Empire.
history: From the Central Powers, about 3.3 million soldiers became prisoners; most of them surrendered to Russians.
history: ISBN 978-0-567-13439-4.
history: Bazeen, a dish made from barley flour and served with red tomato sauce, is customarily eaten communally, with several people sharing the same dish, usually by hand.
history: For a time, the women of the Harem effectively controlled the state in what was termed the "Sultanate of Women".
history: That is, 0 is an identity element (or neutral element) with respect to addition.
history: Although it never proved a decisive weapon, it became one of the most feared of the war.
history: In France and Belgium, locals who discover caches of unexploded munitions are assisted by weapons disposal units.
history: Japan declared war on Germany before seizing territories in the Pacific, which later became the South Seas Mandate, as well as German Treaty ports on the Chinese Shandong peninsula at Tsingtao.
history: On 20 October 2011, the last heavy fighting of the uprising came to an end in the city of Sirte.
history: Libya was a pioneer state in North Africa in species protection, with the creation in 1975 of the El Kouf protected area.
history: Much to the frustration of his Allies, who had suffered heavy losses in 1917, he insisted on retaining control of American troops, and refused to commit them to the front line until able to operate as independent units.
history: The first civil war came during the Arab Spring movements which overturned the rulers of Tunisia and Egypt.
history: This building was designed by Mattia Preti, who was in Malta at the time of the epidemic and survived by staying in Żurrieq.
history: Bey al-Taula "Bey of the Table", the title of the Heir Presumptive, the eldest prince of the Beylical family, who enjoyed precedence immediately after the Bey al-Mahalla.
history: The 1592–1593 Malta plague epidemic was a major outbreak of plague (Maltese: pesta) on the island of Malta, then ruled by the Order of St John.
history: These complexes were governed and managed with the help of a vakıf agreement (Arabic waqf).
history: Some prominent examples of this would be the Battle of the Atlantic, Battle of Britain, and the Battle of France, all in World War II.
history: The Druze agreed beforehand not to loot Zahle, but the Sardiyya Bedouin tribesmen plundered the town, taking money, horses and jewellery.
history: The International Christian Concern does not list Libya as a country where there is "persecution or severe discrimination against Christians".
history: It is difficult to estimate the total number of immigrants in Libya because the census figures, official counts and typically more accurate unofficial estimates all differ.
history: Generally, aridity is the main characterizes of such soils.
history: The most important architect of the Classical period is Mimar Sinan, whose major works include the Şehzade Mosque, Süleymaniye Mosque, and Selimiye Mosque.
history: "Bibliography of Abdul-Karim Rafeq's Published Works (To April 2010)".
history: As the Sublime Porte had proved itself incapable of defeating Muhammad Ali, the British Empire and Austrian Empire provided military assistance, and the second Egyptian–Ottoman War (1839–1841) ended with Ottoman victory and the restoration of Ottoman suzerainty over Egypt Eyalet and the Levant.
history: The number 0 may or may not be considered a natural number, but it is an integer, and hence a rational number and a real number.
history: In August 2011, it was estimated that it would take at least 10 years to rebuild Libya's infrastructure.
history: The earliest known use of zero as a loanword in English literature was 1598.
history: 68,574,961 = 82812 = 914
68,890,000 = 83002
69,273,666 = Number of primitive polynomials of degree 31 over GF(2)
69,343,957 = 375
history: In early April, Shibli al-Aryan attempted to secure more fighters from the supportive villages and succeeded in raising some 8,000 fighters.
history: ISBN 9783900345051.
history: In the summer of 1557 parts of Europe had just suffered outbreaks of plague, typhus, measles, and smallpox when influenza arrived from the Ottoman Empire and North Africa.
history: It was probably caused by infected materials from a major epidemic in 1592–1593, and it was successfully contained after causing 40 to 45 deaths.
history: As late as the 18th century, piracy continued to be a "consistent threat to maritime traffic in the Aegean".
history: Gerbert of Aurillac is credited with reintroducing the lost teachings into Catholic Europe.
history: There were only two attempts in Ottoman history to unseat the ruling Ottoman dynasty, both failures, which suggests a political system that for an extended period was able to manage its revolutions without unnecessary instability.
history: In this quantity consisting of that which has zero for its divisor, there is no alteration, though many may be inserted or extracted; as no change takes place in the infinite and immutable God when worlds are created or destroyed, though numerous orders of beings are absorbed or put forth.
history: The sultan deposed Bashir III on 13 January 1842 and appointed Omar Pasha as governor of Mount Lebanon.
history: Naval battles have occurred since before the 5th century BC.
history: They were primarily of French, Spanish and Italian origin.
history: This agreement was further formalized in a convention on 5 September 1860 with Austria, Great Britain, France, Prussia and Russia.
history: On 30 August 1914, New Zealand occupied German Samoa (now Samoa).
history: On 27 April, Grand Master Cotoner and the Council of the Order requested assistance from abroad to help deal with the epidemic.
history: Modern historians tend to follow Herodotus's classical distinctions.
history: However, Lot objected and offered his virgin daughters who had not "known" (v.
history: On 22 of April he launched attacks at an Ottoman encampment in Ormylia, but he faced a counter-attack by 300 bashi-bazouks and his forces retreated.
history: Previously tested deployment plans had been replaced early in 1914, but those had never been tested in exercises.
history: Sébastien de Brossard composed a cantata Abraham ou le sacrifice d'Isaac between 1703 and 1708.
history: This dichotomy was officially ended in 1920–1923, when the newly established Ankara-based Turkish government chose Turkey as the sole official name.
history: Algeria gained independence in 1962.
history: At the time, the Ottoman Empire's territory included most of the Balkans and Bulgaria.
history: Ibn Khaldun disagrees with Ibn Hazam, who claimed, mostly on the basis of Berber sources, that the Lwatah, in addition to the Sadrata and the Mzata, were from the Qibts (Egyptians).
history: 3,192,727,797 : 24th Motzkin number.
history: The year of the caravan raid was cited as 1584 by Duwayhi, and then by Rafeq, Salibi and Bakhit, while Shihabi, and in turn Holt, placed the raid in 1585.
history: The flu spread west along established trade and pilgrimage routes before reaching the Ottoman Empire and the Middle East.
history: The palace schools, which also educated the future administrators of the state, were not a single track.
history: 1515)
March 29
Arthur Champernowne, English admiral (b.
history: Oxford: Clarendon Press.
history: After the conflict's end, Karam claimed his abrupt halt was due to prohibitions on further advances by the French consul and the Ottoman authorities.
history: Epidemics and pandemics; their impacts on human history.
history: Germany launched Operation Marne (Second Battle of the Marne) on 15 July, in an attempt to encircle Reims.
history: The United Nations (UN) formally recognised the country as "Libya" in September 2011 based on a request from the Permanent Mission of Libya citing the Libyan interim Constitutional Declaration of 3 August 2011.
history: As of November 2012, it was deemed to be still in the embryonic stage of development.
history: When introducing new provinces, the numbers of old provinces are kept, hence the non-alphabetical order.
history: Analysis like the documentary hypothesis also suggests that the text is a result of the compilation of multiple previous traditions, explaining apparent contradictions.
history: Abu-Husayn was mentored by the AUB's Kamal Salibi, a noted historian of Lebanon.
history: In Gnostic belief systems, the bodily creation of Adam is viewed in a negative light.
history: Shibli was later sent out of the country, appointed to Sinar.
history: Those acts fuelled a cycle of revenge attacks that significantly increased in frequency by April.
history: The fleet only averaged 25 ships in the 1680s, but these were larger vessels than had been used since the 1620s, so the fleet still employed some 7,000 men.
history: Everything was done and carried out by a skilled politician, Talaat Bey, who masterminded the coup, and the energetic soldier, Enver, aided by some officers of unfailing dedication and some dozens of patriots who were joined gradually few hundred protesters.
history: Led by commanders Ali Bey Hamada, Kenj Ahmad and Hasan Agha Tawil, the Druze forces assembled around Hasbaya on 3 June.
history: In many typefaces with text figures, the numeral 1 features parallel serifs at the top and bottom, resembling a small caps version of the Roman numeral I.
history: Chemical warfare also began in 1915.
history: The epidemic began to subside by June 1593, and attempts were made to purify the island to remove any traces of the disease which might have been left.
history: These could not be practiced during the epidemic, and they were abandoned in favour of wearing black.
history: Instead, a group of unelected civilian and military "décideurs" ("deciders") known as "le pouvoir" ("the power") exercise de facto rule over the country, even deciding who should be president.
history: The Suez Canal was defended from Ottoman attacks in 1915 and 1916; in August 1916, a German and Ottoman force was defeated at the Battle of Romani by the ANZAC Mounted Division and the 52nd (Lowland) Infantry Division.
history: ISBN 978-1-58743-315-3.
history: "Northern Lebanon under the Dominance of Ġazīr (1517–1591)".
history: However, should he not return the wife of Abraham back to him, God would surely destroy Abimelech and his entire household.
history: Old ways of life are gradually fading out.
history: 2,124,679 = largest known Wolstenholme prime
2,144,505 = number of trees with 21 unlabelled nodes
2,162,160 = 41st highly composite number, 2079th triangular number
2,177,399 = smallest pandigital number in base 8.
history: Upon mobilisation, in accordance with the Schlieffen Plan, 80% of the German Army was located on the Western Front, with the remainder acting as a screening force in the East.
history: The rebellion was led by Druze clans of Mount Lebanon, with an aim to expel the Egyptian forces, under Ibrahim Pasha considering them as infidels.
history: Ultimately, Germany invested huge resources on creating a navy large enough to antagonise Britain, but not defeat it.
history: Libyan authorities rejected European Union's plans aimed at stopping migration from Libya.
history: In addition, an animosity had already been brewing between Kâmil Pasha and the CUP since the 1908 Young Turk Revolution that had started the Second Constitutional Era.
history: He also reminds his detractors that he was expelled from the Government in August 2017 at the instigation of oligarchs languishing in prison.
history: The surface of the human body houses roughly 1012 bacteria.
history: The Persian campaign lasted until 1918 and ended in failure for the Ottomans and their allies.
history: 1580s–1600s).
history: The place was later named as Jehovah-jireh.
history: Many Vandals were enslaved or expelled from North Africa.
history: On 3 November, Austria-Hungary sent a flag of truce and accepted the Armistice of Villa Giusti, arranged with the Allied Authorities in Paris.
history: God afflicted Pharaoh and his household with plagues, which led Pharaoh to try to find out what was wrong.
history: At the time, there were claims that the plague arrived from a squadron of English ships that was fighting the Barbary pirates, which visited Malta a number of times in 1675–76 before and during the epidemic.
history: Garnett described the schools for Christians and Jews as "organised upon European models", with "voluntary contributions" supporting their operation and most of them "well attended" and with "a high standard of education".
history: Eastern Uweinat (the highest point in the Libyan Desert) is a raised sandstone plateau adjacent to the granite part further west.
history: Government records confirm Ibrahim Pasha killed hundreds of Druze rebels, sent many of their heads to Constantinople and had "thus punished the rebellious community properly".
history: Ahmed's successors proved less capable rulers, however, and the kingdom was soon wracked by internal strife.
history: Following the fall of the Empire, Vandals, and local representatives of the Byzantine Empire also ruled all or parts of Libya.
history: According to several historians, the methods used by the French to establish control over Algeria reached genocidal proportions.
history: A large and impoverished population made up the surrounding liberties, which became the first communities to be hit severely by the plague.
history: Area: A square a thousand objects or units on a side contains a million such objects or square units, so a million holes might be found in less than three square yards of window screen, or similarly, in about one half square foot (400–500 cm2) of bed sheet cloth.
history: However, German Turkologist Gerhard Doerfer assessed the derivation from Iranian as superficially attractive but quite uncertain, and pointed out the possibility that the word may be genuinely Turkic.
history: The Maronites considered this a threat since they viewed the Ottomans as allies of the Druze.
history: When all was prepared, he set curds, milk and the calf before them, waiting on them, under a tree, as they ate.
history: Empire style and Neoclassical motifs were introduced and a trend towards eclecticism was evident in many types of buildings, such as the Dolmabaçe Palace.
history: Compared with the history of Egypt, historians know little about the history of Libya, as there are few surviving written records.
history: In Constantinople, the Sultan ruled two distinct domains: the secular government and the religious hierarchy.
history: Some 150,000 Italians settled in Libya, constituting roughly 20% of the total population.
history: The disease, often called coqueluche by the French, caused a severe outbreak in Nîmes that featured a fast onset of symptoms like headaches, fevers, loss of appetite, fatigue, and intense coughing.
history: The leading clubs, according to timeline, were Beşiktaş Gymnastics Club (1903), Galatasaray Sports Club (1905), Fenerbahçe Sports Club (1907), MKE Ankaragücü (formerly Turan Sanatkarangücü) (1910) in Constantinople.
history: In 1971, Gaddafi sponsored the creation of a Libyan General Women's Federation.
history: The defeat of loyalist forces was celebrated on 23 October 2011, three days after the fall of Sirte.
history: He received his spiritual education at the Khalwat al-Bayada, the premier Druze theological center, where he attained the highest levels of religious knowledge.
history: The total number of deaths includes between 9 and 11 million military personnel, with an estimated civilian death toll of about 6 to 13 million.
history: In the early 19th century war broke out between the United States and Tripolitania, and a series of battles ensued in what came to be known as the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War.
history: An aide-de-camp to the Grand Vizier, Ohrili Nâfiz Bey, heard the commotion and opened fire on the raid party but was unable to hit any of them.
history: He then expanded his authority across Algeria and most of Morocco briefly, fighting Zenata tribes.
history: Movement of people was restricted from 24 March, and all suspected cases were isolated.
history: The years before 1914 were marked by a series of crises in the Balkans, as other powers sought to benefit from the Ottoman decline.
history: 28.1% of Algerians are under the age of 15.
history: These provinces together formed what became known as Libya.
history: At the same time, the industry needed to replace the lost labourers sent to war.
history: ) on Earth, the angels enquired, asking, "will You place therein that which will spread corruption and bloodshed?" God responded, "I know what you know not" (Qur'an 2:30), and commanded the angels to prostrate to Adam.
history: Strict countermeasures were taken at the local level to combat the epidemic, such as painting blue crosses on the houses of the infected and government orders to kill and bury all stray cats and dogs "for the avoidance of plague," with special officers appointed to carry out the cull.
history: Peter Golden derives the word via Sogdian bġy from the same Iranian root.
history: The League of Nations was established to maintain world peace, but its failure to manage instability during the interwar period contributed to the outbreak of World War II in 1939.
history: A number of small villages or hamlets lost most of their populations during the epidemic, and were later abandoned or absorbed into nearby settlements.
history: Russia is also building two 636-type diesel submarines for Algeria.
history: This sarcophagus has been described as "probably the single most famous piece of early Christian relief sculpture." The sarcophagus was originally placed in or under Old St.
history: The Ottoman Empire is credited with the invention of several surgical instruments in use such as forceps, catheters, scalpels and lancets as well as pincers.
history: 1,000,006,281 : smallest triangular number with 10 digits and the 44,721st triangular number.
history: By the end of the fighting, much of Deir al-Qamar, which was the most prosperous town of the predominantly Druze Chouf district, was in ruins, and corpses, some mutilated, were left throughout the town's streets, markets, houses and Ottoman government buildings and military installations.
history: Below is the list of basic calculations of 1,000,000,000,000:
history: Influenza arrived in Central America in 1557, likely aboard Spanish ships sailing to New Spain.
history: Following al-Samman's speech, the occupants of the shops around the Umayyad Mosque formed a mob and headed for the Christian quarter yelling out anti-Christian slogans.
history: Zero divided by zero is zero.
history: The Nuruosmaniye Mosque is one of the most important examples from this period.
history: Various games have existed in Algeria since antiquity.
history: This triggered settler and military revolts, including the failed putsch of April 1961 by generals led by Challe and Salan, who later joined the terrorist OAS.
history: Some 3,000 Christian fighters, predominantly from Zahle, met Khattar's forces near Ain Dara where a major battle took place.
history: Eventually strict measures were taken and the epidemic subsided after eight months.
history: On June 10, 1805, he signed the Treaty of Peace and Amity ending the war.
history: This sinful nature infected all his descendants, and led humanity to be expelled from the Garden.
history: Relations with France deteriorated after the 1827 Fly-Whisk Incident, when Dey Hussein struck the French consul during a dispute over debts and grain payments.
history: A battle of breakthrough aims to pierce the enemy's defences, thereby exposing the vulnerable flanks which can be turned.
history: ISSN 2008-5230.
history: The British military administered the two former Italian Libyan provinces of Tripolitana and Cyrenaïca, while the French administered the province of Fezzan.
history: In addition, Muslim ethnic groups, which were not part of the millet system, especially the Arabs and the Kurds, were outside the Turkish culture and developed their own separate nationalism.
history: Absolute figures are difficult to calculate due to differences in categorising expenditure since they often omit civilian infrastructure projects like railways which had logistical importance and military use.
history: On 23 June, a Sunni Muslim man had been killed during a dispute with a Christian refugee in Beirut.
history: The campaign took 21 days, and resulted in over 5,000 Algerian military casualties, and about 2,600 French ones.
history: However, some rioters set alight the roof of a Greek Orthodox church and the local bazaar, and the ensuing flames prompted others to follow and set alight homes in the quarter.
history: The Afroasiatic ancestors of the Berber people are assumed to have spread into the area by the Late Bronze Age.
history: In any case, the CUP termed Nazım Pasha's death during the coup a "regrettable accident", saying that it was unpremeditated but "unavoidable" under the circumstances.
history: It had been traditionally considered the direct consequence of a raid by bandits in Akkar against the tribute caravan of Ibrahim Pasha, then Egypt's outgoing governor, who was on his way to Constantinople.
history: From 1592 to 1593, London experienced its last major plague outbreak of the 16th century.
history: The war began amid the Home Rule crisis in Ireland that had resurfaced in 1912, and by July 1914 there was a serious possibility of an outbreak of civil war in Ireland.
history: During Selim's reign, the Ottoman Empire saw an unprecedented and rapid expansion into the Middle East, particularly the conquest of the entire Mamluk Sultanate of Egypt on the early 16th century.
history: Stretching from Tabarka in Tunisia to the Moulouya River, with its capital at Cirta (Constantine), Numidia represented a high point of Berber civilization.
history: Numerous villages in the Chouf were plundered and Qurqumaz went into hiding in a cave and died.
history: His beylerbey (provincial governor) over Damascus, Janbirdi al-Ghazali, had served the same role under the Mamluks.
history: On the first day, Abd al-Qadir's men had attempted three times to escort the Spanish Franciscans of Terra Santa to safety, but the Franciscans and a number of their acquaintances did not heed their calls; they were all killed on the second day and their convent was looted and burned.
history: Dimensionless quantities are also known as 'quantities of dimension one'.
history: 9,876,543,210 : largest pandigital number.
history: In April 2019, Khalifa Haftar launched Operation Flood of Dignity, in an offensive by the Libyan National Army aimed to seize Western territories from the Government of National Accord (GNA).
history: Its origins are obscure, deriving perhaps from an older Egyptian tradition, or possibly from an Asian source.
history: Hebrew, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean have words with the same meaning.
history: According to the Ahmadiyya sect, Adam was not the first human being on earth, but when the human race came into existence, and spread all over the world and developed the ability to receive revelation, God sent Adam to each and every branch of civilization.
history: Ottoman Sultan Mahmud II sent in troops ostensibly to restore order, marking the end of both the Karamanli dynasty and an independent Tripolitania.
history: He promoted a policy of Arabisation in Algerian society and public life.
history: The Great Powers–the British Empire, France, Italy, and Russia–had begun to engage in the relationship of Bulgaria with the Ottoman Empire, citing the 1878 Treaty of Berlin.
history: The German Revolution of 1918–1919 began at the end of October 1918.
history: de Garotillo, the 1557 influenza pandemic first broke out in Asia.
history: Armies were divided into regiments, battalions, companies and platoons.
history: There are no records of influenza affecting the New World in 1510, even though Spain was sending fleets of ships across the Atlantic.
history: The founder of the dynasty was Ahmed Karamanli, a descendant of the medieval Karamanids.
history: Eriksson, Maja Kirilova (1 January 2000).
history: 18,457,556,052 = 28th Pell number.
history: In the lightly populated Fezzan region, a French military administration formed a counterpart to the British operation.
history: The chapter notes that Adam had other sons and daughters after Seth, but does not name them.
history: The diocese will be raised to the status of archdiocese on August 14, 1595.
history: After persuading the Ottomans to recognize him as governor, Ahmed established himself as pasha and made his post hereditary.
history: A battle of encirclement—the Kesselschlacht of the German battle of manoeuvre (bewegungskrieg)—surrounds the enemy in a pocket.
history: The corresponding sum for 2118107 is indeed 57.
history: ISBN 978-0-300-18132-6.
history: Battles in civil wars have often decided the fate of monarchs or political factions.
history: Geologists such as Albert Kitson were called on to find new resources of precious minerals in the African colonies.
history: Economic reforms led to a significant post-1908 expansion of railways and transportation infrastructure, particularly in its western border regions.
history: Economies were also impacted by the loss of artisans, merchants, manufacturers, and agriculturists.
history: In 1897 the population was 19 million, of whom 14 million (74%) were Muslim.
history: After years of war, marked by ruthless French tactics including razzias, he surrendered in 1847.
history: Only through the crucifixion of Jesus, humanity can be redeemed.
history: Influenza arrived in the Kingdom of Sicily in June at Palermo, whence it spread across the island.
history: Initially inheriting an abortion ban from Italy, Libya made abortion a criminal offense under Muammar Gaddafi, with a 1986 law including an exception for life-saving abortions.
history: In February, these drones stationed in Libya were moved to an air base near Siwa in the western Egyptian desert.
history: When the disease spread to the countryside, the entire island was declared as infected, and international quarantine measures were adopted.
history: The variation Beg, Baig or Bai, is still used as a family name or a part of a name in South and Central Asia as well as the Balkans.
history: After the "al-Fatah" revolution, confiscated Italian-owned farms (about 380 km2) were redistributed.
history: It initiated the conquest of North Africa, with the addition of Algeria and Egypt to the Ottoman Empire in 1517.
history: Famous novelists of the 20th century include Mohammed Dib, Albert Camus, Kateb Yacine and Ahlam Mosteghanemi while Assia Djebar is widely translated.
history: Furthermore, they were still expecting Karam's men to be arriving from the north side (they had not yet been notified of his troops' halt at Bikfaya).
history: The Arab Revolt, instigated by the British Foreign Office, started in June 1916 with the Battle of Mecca, led by Sharif Hussein.
history: Bulgaria capitulated four days later, on 29 September 1918.
history: Belgium and Serbia were badly damaged, as was France, with 1.4 million soldiers dead, not counting other casualties.
history: Nonetheless, following their decisive victory at Zahle, the Druze renewed their assault against Deir al-Qamar on 20 June.
history: In all, 140,000 soldiers served on the Western Front and nearly 700,000 in the Middle East, with 47,746 killed and 65,126 wounded.
history: This had subsided by January 1593, and it was believed that the epidemic was over.
history: The mountain regions contain large forests of evergreens (Aleppo pine, juniper, and evergreen oak) and some deciduous trees.
history: A battle of encounter (or encounter battle) is a meeting engagement where the opposing sides collide in the field without either having prepared their attack or defence.
history: Examples include novels such as the Algerian trilogy by Mohammed Dib, and Nedjma by Kateb Yacine.
history: More than 8,000 US personnel in warships and aircraft were deployed in the area.
history: Starting in early 1918, a major influenza epidemic known as Spanish flu spread across the world, accelerated by the movement of large numbers of soldiers, often crammed together in camps and transport ships with poor sanitation.
history: The means of prolonging a battle was typically with siege warfare.
history: In 2023 Libya emitted around 23.77 million tonnes of greenhouse gases, about 0.17% of the world's total emissions.
history: Gaddafi also wanted to ease the strict social restrictions imposed on women by the previous regime, establishing the Revolutionary Women's Formation to encourage reform.
history: By contrast, the Habsburg frontier had settled somewhat, a stalemate caused by a stiffening of the Habsburg defences.
history: This was seen as ominous by Londoners observing the epidemic.
history: The depth of the battlefield has also increased in modern warfare with inclusion of the supporting units in the rear areas; supply, artillery, medical personnel etc.
history: Around ~1.8-million-year-old stone artifacts from Ain Hanech (Algeria) were considered to represent the oldest archaeological materials in North Africa.
history: 10,294,287,500 = 22×55×77
10,314,998,977 = number of parallelogram polyominoes with 29 cells.
history: It is the square of 100 and the square root of 100,000,000.
history: The last death occurred on 30 August at Ħax-Xluq near Siġġiewi.
history: At first, the Druze willingly surrendered their arms, but it soon became clear, that those were not the arms that had been used in the fighting, prompting Ibrahim Pasha to send his officers with a demand for an immediate surrender of the entire Druze arsenal.
history: The same symbol was also used to indicate the base level in drawings of tombs and pyramids, and distances were measured relative to the base line as being above or below this line.
history: There were approximately 1,000-1,200 professional fishermen by 1981.
history: The caliphate was abolished on 3 March 1924.
history: In 2009, there were 18.71 physicians and 66.95 nurses per 10,000 inhabitants.
history: But the government remained at Windsor Castle through November where Queen Elizabeth hosted her tilt celebrations.
history: He replaced the Arabic alphabet with Latin letters, ended the religious school system, and gave women some political rights.
history: Osman's early followers consisted of Turkish tribal groups and Byzantine renegades, with many but not all converts to Islam.
history: In computing,
65,536 kilobytes in decimal is equal to 10,000 kB in hexadecimal (the equivalent addressing ranges of 0 to 65,535 in decimal are 0 to FFFF in hex).
history: In 1592–1593 a plague epidemic had killed about 3,000 people on the island and there was a small outbreak in 1623.
history: The country hosted the 1982 African Cup of Nations and almost qualified for the 1986 FIFA World Cup.
history: The Bulgarian Army had soon advanced as far as Çatalca, a western district of modern Istanbul.
history: In June 1948, anti-Jewish rioters in Libya killed another 12 Jews and destroyed 280 Jewish homes.
history: From the third year, French is taught and it is also the language of instruction for science classes.
history: In German, the serif at the top may be extended into a long upstroke as long as the vertical line.
history: Nations that wished to protect their ships from the corsairs were forced to pay tribute to the pasha.
history: The president is limited to two five-year terms.
history: The Hungarian word bő originates from an Old Turkic loanword, cognate with Ottoman 'bey', that used to mean 'clan leader' in Old Hungarian.
history: often outnumber the front-line combat troops.
history: The 1510 flu is also recorded to have reached Ireland.
history: On 3 October 2010, Germany made the final payment on these bonds.
history: May 31 – Martin Frobisher sails from Harwich in England with 15 ships to North America, where he will arrive at Frobisher Bay in July on his third expedition.
history: He also experimented with steam power in Ottoman Egypt in 1551, when he described a steam jack driven by a rudimentary steam turbine.
history: ʻAbdu'l-Bahá also suggested the "holy manifestations who have been the sources or founders of the various religious systems" were united and agreed in purpose and teaching, and the Abraham, Moses, Zoroaster, the Buddha, Jesus, Muhammad, the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh are one in "spirit and reality".
history: Ahmed's successors proved to be less capable than himself, however, the region's delicate balance of power allowed the Karamanli.
history: France used the episode as a pretext to invade in 1830, capturing Algiers and ending the Regency after more than three centuries of existence.
history: Greece became independent, and Serbia and other Balkan areas became highly restive as the force of nationalism pushed against imperialism.
history: They freed Lot, as well as his household and possessions, and recovered all of the goods from Sodom that had been taken.
history: In the post-Tanzimat period French became the common Western language among the educated.
history: He also visited both the urban and the rural areas which were affected by the plague.
history: Abraham (originally Abram) is widely revered as a foundational legendary figure among adherents of the eponymous Abrahamic religions.
history: Since there was limited response to this tactic, Germany expected a similar response to its unrestricted submarine warfare.
history: Anna Bonnici, the 11-year-old daughter of the merchant Matteo Bonnici, became sick and developed red petechial haemorrhages and enlarged lymph nodes, and she died on 28 December.
history: Attracted by ideals of equality and religious purity, many Berbers supported Kharijite movements, triggering frequent revolts in Ifriqiya.
history: This was implemented in part by the Council of Ministers with resolution No.
history: On 4 June, the much larger Druze force defeated the Christians after an hour-long assault and the Christian forces fled.
history: ISBN 978-0-7657-6103-3.
history: Although the coup was to be a surprise attack, the CUP had made definitive decisions to carry it out far in advance.
history: 1525)
Abu Marwan Abd al-Malik I Saadi, King of Morocco
Abu Abdallah Mohammed II Saadi, King of Morocco
August 8 – Amago Katsuhisa, Japanese nobleman (b.
history: It won the Turkish War of Independence (1919–1923) under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal (later given the surname "Atatürk").
history: Botolph's, with the parish recording 979 deaths of individuals between one and 24 years old.
history: The third and decisive phase (697–709) was led by Hassan ibn al-Nu'man and later Musa ibn Nusayr.
history: The flu spread west through Europe aboard merchant ships in the Mediterranean Sea, again taking advantage of trade and pilgrimage routes.
history: France responded with military force combined with social and economic measures under leaders like Mendès-France, Soustelle (who promoted "integration"), and later Guy Mollet.
history: The news and rumors heightened existing inter-communal tensions between Muslims and Christians in Damascus.
history: Moreover, up to 60 CUP members were placed around the Sublime Porte's buildings.
history: Presiding over Islamic courts was a Qadi, or judge.
history: Memorials were built in thousands of villages and towns.
history: Ottoman power revolved crucially around the administration of the rights to land, which gave a space for the local authority to develop the needs of the local millet.
history: In the Baháʼí texts, like the Islamic texts, Abraham is often referred to as "the Friend of God".
history: 3,333,333,333 : repdigit
3,404,825,447 = 237
3,405,691,582 = CAFEBABE16; used as a magic debug value in programming.
history: Yusuf attempted to compensate for lost revenue by encouraging the trans-Saharan slave trade, but with abolitionist sentiment on the rise in Europe and to a lesser degree the United States, this failed to salvage Tripolitania's economy.
history: From then on, centuries of Arab migration to the Maghreb shifted the demographic scope of Libya in favour of Arabs.
history: During the Battle of Midway, five aircraft carriers were sunk without either fleet coming into direct contact.
history: Some regions conversely had population falls—Belgrade saw its population drop from 25,000 to 8,000 mainly due to political strife.
history: Fuad Pasha, after arriving in the city, immediately decided to punish the Druzes for the committed violence in the hopes of restoring order to the city.
history: Barbary macaques are the sole native monkey.
history: In the 1908 elections, the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP) had only managed to win about 60 of the 288 seats in the Chamber of Deputies (Turkish: Meclis-i Mebusân), the popularly elected lower house of the General Assembly.
history: A battle of annihilation is one in which the defeated party is destroyed in the field, such as the French fleet at the Battle of the Nile.
history: The 1835–1858 revolt in Ottoman Tripolitania began at the end of the Karamanli rule, in which tribal leaders such as 'Abd al-Jalil and Ghuma al-Mahmudi revolted against central Ottoman rule, which ended after Ghuma's death in 1858.
history: Besides Ishaq and Yaqub (Isaac and Jacob), Abraham is among the most excellent and honorable men in the view of God.
history: Even much earlier, the virtual sovereign's title in Barbaresque North African 'regency' states was "Bey" (compare Dey).
history: The government initiated the bid in response to the state of assaults carried by Field Marshal Haftar's LNA.
history: However, the celebration involves no feast and is limited to a sermon by the expedition's minister and Frobisher's men giving praise.
history: In Australia and New Zealand, the Battle of Gallipoli became known as those nations' "Baptism of Fire".
history: It is also the largest country of the Mediterranean basin.
history: Historian Ahmad Tawfiq al-Madani regards it as the "first Algerian state" and the "Algerian Ottoman republic".
history: Legal administration in the Ottoman Empire was part of a larger scheme of balancing central and local authority.
history: Consequently, the Young Turks movement began when these relatively young and newly trained men returned with their education.
history: An additional 20 million lived in provinces that remained under the sultan's nominal suzerainty but were entirely outside his actual power.
history: After a successful invasion of Tripoli by Habsburg Spain in 1510, and its handover to the Knights Hospitaller, the Ottoman admiral Sinan Pasha took control of Libya in 1551.
history: With a primary and secondary productive employment base of around 12,000 persons by 2006, the national fisheries sector provides a small fraction - around 1% - of the total labor force.
history: After this cabinet is agreed upon, the unity government will replace all "parallel authorities" within Libya, including the Government of National Accord in Tripoli and the administration led by General Haftar.
history: Influenza reached the Iberian Peninsula early after Italy, due to the highly interconnected trade and pilgrimage routes between Spain, Portugal, and the Italian kingdoms.
history: Although before 2011 a small number of private institutions were given accreditation, the majority of Libya's higher education has always been financed by the public budget.
history: Van Seters' and Thompson's works were a paradigm shift in biblical scholarship and archaeology, which gradually led scholars to no longer consider the patriarchal narratives as historical.
history: As a result, Austria had to keep sizeable forces on the Serbian front, weakening their efforts against Russia.
history: Libya holds the largest proven oil reserves in Africa and is an important contributor to the global supply of light, sweet crude.
history: Libya is not a WTO member, but negotiations for its accession started in 2004.
history: A stone tablet found in the ruins of a temple near Sambor on the Mekong, Kratié Province, Cambodia, includes the inscription of "605" in Khmer numerals (a set of numeral glyphs for the Hindu–Arabic numeral system).
history: Spain was widely and severely impacted by influenza, which chroniclers recognized as a highly contagious catarrhal fever.
history: When Libya declared its independence on 24 December 1951, ending the Allied occupation of Libya, it was the first country to achieve independence through the United Nations and one of the first former European possessions in Africa to gain independence.
history: When the real numbers are extended to form the complex numbers, 0 becomes the origin of the complex plane.
history: This figure could be paid in cash or in-kind (coal, timber, chemical dyes, etc.).
history: After World War I and the signing of the armistice of Mudros, the leadership of the Committee of Union and Progress and selected former officials were court-martialled with/including the charges of subversion of the constitution, wartime profiteering, and the massacres of both Armenians and Greeks.
history: ISBN 978-0-567-06896-5.
history: Football is the most popular sport in the country.
history: The Allies halted the drive after limited territorial gains by Germany.
history: Russia had ambitions in northeastern Anatolia while its clients had overlapping claims in the Balkans.
history: According to some exegetes, like Nahmanides, Abram was actually born in Haran and he later relocated to Ur, while some of his family remained in Haran.
history: 1500 BCE) and the Seleucid (c.
history: New York: Facts on File.
history: After initial outrage and much deliberation, they took Wilson's note as a separate effort, signalling that the US was on the verge of entering the war against Germany following the "submarine outrages".
history: Substantial revenues from the energy sector, coupled with a small population, give Libya one of the highest per capita GDPs in Africa.
history: The Ottoman Empire, or as a dynastic institution, the House of Osman, was unprecedented and unequalled in the Islamic world for its size and duration.
history: The city of Mdina, the village of Safi and the island of Gozo remained free of the disease.
history: Other steps have included applying for membership of the World Trade Organization, reducing subsidies, and announcing plans for privatisation.
history: The local Libyan Arabic variety is spoken alongside Modern Standard Arabic.
history: The Battle of Algiers (1956–57) saw the FLN resort to urban terrorism and bombings, which the French paratroopers crushed using torture — gaining military victory but suffering major political damage.
history: In digital technology, 1 represents the "on" state in binary code, the foundation of computing.
history: Other sources included the Janissaries of Damascus, the timar (fief)-holders in Syria and Ottoman ships from Constantinople which came to transport grain from Syria to the imperial capital.
history: As for the Nazis, they waved the banners of domestic treason and international conspiracy in an attempt to galvanise the German nation into a spirit of revenge.
history: Its guarantee of liberties promised to dissolve inter-communal tensions and transform the empire into a more harmonious place.
history: The title is also used as an honorific by members of the Moorish Science Temple of America and the Moorish Orthodox Church.
history: By 1873, the population of Algeria (excluding several hundred thousand newly arrived French settlers) had decreased to 2,172,000.
history: Today, a marine is actually an infantry regiment that sometimes fights solely on land and is no longer tied to the navy.
history: Nevertheless, there was a tradition of prose in the literature of the time, though it was exclusively nonfictional.
history: They rejected that notion and sought to break down Lot's door to get to his male guests, thus confirming the wickedness of the city and portending their imminent destruction.
history: The most alarmed European consul was Lanusse, who firmly believed there was a great danger posed to the Christians and "predicted the worst", according to Fawaz.
history: By 1929, the Great Depression caused political chaos throughout the world.
history: However, Moltke grew concerned that the French might push too hard on his left flank and as the German Army increased in size from 1908 to 1914, he changed the allocation of forces between the two wings to 70:30.
history: There are some ethnic minorities, such as the Berber Tuareg and the Black African Tebou.
history: August 4 – Sebastian, King of Portugal is killed in the Battle of Alcácer Quibir in North Africa while fighting the Saadi Sultanate.
history: Abimelech had not laid hands on her, so he inquired if he would also slay a righteous nation, especially since Abraham and Sarah had claimed that they were siblings.
history: Because of a geographic and cultural divide between the capital and other areas, two broadly distinct styles of music arose in the Ottoman Empire: Ottoman classical music and folk music.
history: On 24 August 2021, Algeria announced the break of diplomatic relations with Morocco.
history: After the invention of cannons, naval warfare became useful as support units for land warfare.
history: Within 200 years, four more important Greek cities were established in the area that became known as Cyrenaica.
history: Masinissa received a golden crown from the inhabitants of Delos as he had offered them several shiploads of grain to the temple of Apollo in Delos the famous birthplace of the sun god and his twin sister Artemis.
history: Stone artifacts and cut-marked bones that were excavated from two nearby deposits at Ain Boucherit are estimated to be ~1.9 million years old, and even older stone artifacts to be as old as ~2.4 million years.
history: The United States was a major supplier of war materiel to the Allies but remained neutral in 1914, in large part due to domestic opposition.
history: A violent storm had just hit Portugal and severely damaged the Palace of Enxobregas, and in following with attributing outbreaks of influenza to the weather Portuguese historians like Ignácio Barbosa-Machado attributed the epidemic in the kingdom to the storm with little opposition.
history: Libya's primary agricultural water source remains the Great Man-made River (GMMR), but significant resources are being invested in desalinization research to meet growing demand.
history: The Druze refused to lay down their weapons, but concerned with the size of the amounting armies, tried to enlist additional forces to support the revolt from across Syria and Lebanon.
history: Notably in Tunis, the Husainid Dynasty used a whole series of title and styles including Bey:
history: The most prominent women of this period were Hürrem Sultan, Kösem Sultan and her daughter-in-law Turhan Hatice, whose political rivalry culminated in Kösem's murder in 1651.
history: At this time, Talaat Bey (later known as Talaat Pasha) also began to make his way towards the Sublime Porte with a group of CUP loyalists.
history: Bismarck opposed any attempt to compete with the Royal Navy, since he believed Britain would not interfere in Europe as long as its maritime supremacy remained secure.
history: His cousin, whom he had married in 1932, reportedly experienced numerous miscarriages, and their son, born in 1953, died shortly after birth.
history: Twenty-five of these universities and almost all of the institutions of higher education were founded after the independence of the country.
history: Many of the writers in the Tanzimat period wrote in several different genres simultaneously.
history: One originates from the Old English word an, derived from the Germanic root *ainaz, from the Proto-Indo-European root *oi-no- (meaning "one, unique").
history: General Nikolai Yudenich, the Russian commander from 1915 to 1916, drove the Turks out of most of the southern Caucasus.
history: Within hours, Zahle was under Druze control.
history: Access to "improved water sources" was around 97.4% of the population in urban areas and 98.7% of the population in the rural areas.
history: Only Jesus Christ, who was not conceived by human semen, was free of the stain passed down from Adam.
history: From the 7th century onward, the spread of Islam and the arrival of Arab tribes gradually transformed the region's linguistic, religious, and cultural landscape, contributing to the development of a distinct Algerian identity rooted in both Arab-Islamic and Amazigh heritage.
history: Unemployment rose from 8% in 2008 to 21% in 2009, according to the census figures.
history: Revolutionaries set up the Petrograd Soviet and fearing a left-wing takeover, the State Duma forced Nicholas to abdicate and established the Russian Provisional Government, which confirmed Russia's willingness to continue the war.
history: The next major outbreak of plague in the Maltese Islands occurred in 1813–14.
history: Though the epidemic left the entire city of Urbino ill, most individuals recovered without complications.
history: doi:10.1177/096853329400100305.
history: 1572)
April 11 – Joanna of Austria, Grand Duchess of Tuscany, Austrian Archduchess (b.
history: His successor Turgut Reis was named the Bey of Tripoli and later Pasha of Tripoli in 1556.
history: Afterwards, the Druzes plundered Deir al-Qamar, which was well known for being wealthy.
history: Beginning in the 18th century, Ottoman architecture was opened to external influences, particularly from Baroque architecture in Western Europe, which eventually gave rise to the Ottoman Baroque style that emerged in the 1740s.
history: It ended when Mehmed I emerged as the sultan and restored Ottoman power.
history: In the 1623 outbreak health authorities implemented strict measures which managed to successfully contain the spread of the disease.
history: The rumors were confirmed when, a few days after Ahmed Muhtar Pasha took office, the Savior Officers sent another memorandum, this time to the President of the Chamber of Deputies (and CUP member), Halil Bey, demanding that the Chamber be dissolved for new elections within 48 hours.
history: Many of these graveyards also have monuments to the missing or unidentified dead, such as the Menin Gate Memorial to the Missing and the Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme.
history: The Allied administration of Libya was the control of the ex-colony of Italian Libya by the Allies from 13 May 1943 until Libyan independence was granted in 1951.
history: He dedicated his life to the Unitarian (Muwahhidun) faith as a youth.
history: Algeria's current foreign minister is Ahmed Attaf.
history: The military of Algeria consists of the People's National Army (ANP), the Algerian National Navy (MRA), and the Algerian Air Force (QJJ), plus the Territorial Air Defence Forces.
history: Only the Germans seemed helpful, and their support led to the Ottoman Empire joining the central powers in 1915, with the result that they came out as one of the heaviest losers of the First World War in 1918.
history: New York: Facts on File, Inc., 1991
Who Lived in Africa before the Roman Conquest?
history: This may explain why many Libyans (nearly 20% of the labor force in 1984) remained in the agricultural sector.
history: The Seyahatnâme of Evliya Çelebi (1611–1682) is an outstanding example of travel literature.
history: Meanwhile, new nations liberated from German rule viewed the treaty as a recognition of wrongs committed against small nations by much larger aggressive neighbours.Austria-Hungary was partitioned into several successor states, largely but not entirely along ethnic lines.
history: God causes a deep sleep to fall upon Adam and forms a woman (Genesis 2:21–22), and Adam awakes and greets her as his helpmate.
history: a catastrophic change reduced the vast body of fresh water to a seasonal lake or marsh.
history: The outbreak of the pandemic is thought to have started at the Haridwar Kumbh Mela.
history: Also, Melchizedek king of Salem (Jerusalem), a priest of El Elyon, brought out bread and wine and blessed Abram and God.
history: During the Elizabethan years, London's theatres were closed to slow the spread of the plague.
history: Under leaders like Yusuf ibn Tashfin, they built a powerful empire, establishing Marrakesh as their capital in 1062.
history: An army of 40,000 men and a confederacy of tribes known as "Great Chiefs of the Libu" were led by King Meryey who fought a war against pharaoh Merneptah in year 5 (1208 BC).
history: In Colonial Brazil, Portuguese missionaries did not take breaks from religious activities when they became sick.
history: The overwhelming majority of Christians in the city were unarmed, with the exception of a few pistols.
history: Large-scale massacres were also committed against the Empire's Greek and Assyrian minorities as part of the same campaign of ethnic cleansing.
history: A circa 190 AD, manual, the "Supplementary Notes on the Art of Figures", by Xu Yue, also outlines the techniques to add, subtract, multiply, and divide numbers, containing zero values in a decimal power, on counting devices, that include counting rods, and abacus.
history: Pro-Gaddafi forces were able to respond militarily to rebel pushes in Western Libya and launched a counterattack along the coast toward Benghazi, the de facto centre of the uprising.
history: Many older typewriters do not have a dedicated key for the numeral 1, requiring the use of the lowercase letter L or uppercase I as substitutes.
history: Algeria is estimated to have the largest solar energy potential in the Mediterranean, so the government has funded the creation of a solar science park in Hassi R'Mel.
history: There has been a transition from cinema which focused on the war of independence to films more concerned with the everyday lives of Algerians.
history: In the 2006 census, around 359,540 foreign nationals were resident in Libya out of a population of over 5.5 million (6.35% of the population).
history: Germany and Austria-Hungary then formed the 1879 Dual Alliance, which became the Triple Alliance when Italy joined in 1882.
history: After eating, Libyans often drink black tea.
history: Six ecoregions lie within Libya's borders: Saharan halophytics, Mediterranean dry woodlands and steppe, Mediterranean woodlands and forests, North Saharan steppe and woodlands, Tibesti-Jebel Uweinat montane xeric woodlands, and West Saharan montane xeric woodlands.
history: Although gross agricultural production was relatively constant, increasing oil revenues resulted in declines in agriculture's share of national income.
history: Algerian cuisine is rich and diverse as a result of interactions and exchanges with other cultures and nations over the centuries.
history: The evidence strongly argues for early dispersal of stone tool manufacture and use from East Africa, or a possible multiple-origin scenario of stone technology in both East and North Africa.
history: A billion grains of table salt or granulated sugar would occupy a volume of about 2.5 cubic feet (0.071 m3).
history: Area suitable for cultivation approximates 22,000 km2 of which 2,390 km2 dedicated to irrigated agriculture, 15,500 km2 to rain fed farming, and 140,000 km2 of forest and range lands.
history: Following his death, the Ottomans were said to be declining, although this has been rejected by many scholars.
history: Public spending has increased by 27% annually during the past five years.
history: Operation Market Garden and Operation Rolling Thunder are examples of battles known by their military codenames.
history: Battles can be fought on land, at sea, and in the air.
history: On 11 September 2012, Islamist militants mounted an attack on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, killing the U.S.
history: The Ottoman economy greatly expanded during the early modern period, with particularly high growth rates during the first half of the 18th century.
history: After 1 January 1913 when the party came under the control of Gümülcineli İsmail, he saw both the CUP and Freedom and Accord as dangerous revolutionary committees.
history: Ibn Khaldun's Muqaddimah states Luwa was an ancestor of this tribe.
history: This variation can lead to confusion with the glyph used for seven in other countries and so to provide a visual distinction between the two the digit 7 may be written with a horizontal stroke through the vertical line.
history: One of Gaddafi's senior advisors responded by posting a tweet, wherein he resigned, defected, and advised Gaddafi to flee.
history: The rioters proceeded to loot Christian shops throughout the city's major bazaars.
history: However, "Allied experts knew that Germany could not pay" this sum.
history: In the early 19th century, Egypt under Muhammad Ali began using steam engines for industrial manufacturing, with industries such as ironworks, textile manufacturing, paper mills and hulling mills moving towards steam power.
history: The only two foreign consulates not targeted during the massacre were the English and Prussian consulates.
history: Transylvania, Wallachia and, intermittently, Moldavia, became tributary principalities of the Empire.
history: The Casbah, one of the most fascinating urban neighborhoods in the world, was built during this period.
history: After mass demonstrations organised by the UGTA, civil war was avoided and Ben Bella took power in September 1962.
history: Libya, officially the State of Libya, is a country in the Maghreb region of North Africa.
history: Buluggin founded the cities of Algiers, Médéa and Miliana, making central Algeria politically important.
history: Also, sheets for albums levha consisted of illuminated calligraphy (hat) of tughra, religious texts, verses from poems or proverbs, and purely decorative drawings.
history: With a number, "billion" can be abbreviated as b, bil or bn.
history: 1535)
October 18 – Ferdinand, Prince of Asturias, Spanish prince (b.
history: Increments of 106 from 1 million through a 10 million have the following prime counts:
history: Education is officially compulsory for children between the ages of six and 15.
history: The defeat and dissolution of the Ottoman Empire (1908–1922) began with the Second Constitutional Era, a moment of hope and promise established with the Young Turk Revolution.
history: Libya is a member of the United Nations, the Non-Aligned Movement, the African Union, the Arab League, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, and OPEC.
history: In physics, selected physical constants are set to 1 in natural unit systems in order to simplify the form of equations; for example, in Planck units the speed of light equals 1.
history: This fundamental property has led to its unique uses in other fields, ranging from science to sports, where it commonly denotes the first, leading, or top thing in a group.
history: When they caught up with them at Dan, Abram devised a battle plan by splitting his group into more than one unit, and launched a night raid.
history: Anzac Day, named after the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC), commemorates this defining moment.
history: The 1510 flu disrupted royal courts, church services, and social life across Europe.
history: 1808–1839) first won ulama approval before proposing similar reforms.
history: After nine years of primary school, students can go to a high school or to an educational institution.
history: Different forms of the name Algeria include: Arabic: الجزائر, romanised: al-Jazāʾir, Algerian Arabic: دزاير, romanised: dzāyer, French: l'Algérie.
history: This script's numeral shapes were transmitted to Europe via the Maghreb and Al-Andalus during the Middle Ages  The Arabic numerals, and other glyphs used to represent the number one (e.g., Roman numeral (I ), Chinese numeral (一)) are logograms.
history: With the outbreak of World War I, the modernisation process stopped abruptly.
history: The visitor inquired of Abraham why Sarah laughed at bearing a child at her age, as nothing is too hard for God.
history: "Abdul-Karim Rafeq, Friend and Colleague".
history: The secularisation programme brought by Atatürk ended the ulema and their institutions.
history: It is a tradition of many special occasions and holidays.
history: The Christians received assurances of safety from Emir Ali Shihab, governor of Rashaya, and the Druze al-Aryan family, which held significant influence in the town.
history: Other ethnic groups were similarly attacked by the Ottoman Empire during this period, including Assyrians and Greeks, and some scholars consider those events to be part of the same policy of extermination.
history: It has a reduced totient of 500, and a totient of 4,000, with a total of 16 integers having a totient value of 10,000.
history: In acoustics, 10,000 hertz, 10 kilohertz, or 10 kHz of a sound signal at sea level has a wavelength of about 34  mm.
history: The Crimean War (1853–1856) was part of a long-running contest between the major European powers for influence over territories of the declining Ottoman Empire.
history: The storytelling method used here is the “obstacle story,” a literary device renowned for its enduring and universal popularity across cultures and eras.
history: Statistical index 1970.
history: The alliance of the Holy League pressed home the advantage of the defeat at Vienna, culminating in the Treaty of Karlowitz (26 January 1699), which ended the Great Turkish War.
history: There are also more than 4,000 Palestinian refugees, who are well integrated and have not asked for assistance from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
history: Around half of the town's Christian residents had remained neutral and appealed for protection by the Druze, with whom many had long maintained social and commercial ties.
history: The Abraham cycle is not structured by a unified plot centered on a conflict and its resolution or a problem and its solution.
history: A temporary isolation hospital was set up on the island in Marsamxett Harbour known as the Isolotto (which later became known as Manoel Island).
history: Many sports clubs and organisations exist in Algeria to promote and develop sports among young people.
history: Ottoman rule finally reasserted to Fezzan between 1850 and 1875 for earning income from Saharan commerce.
history: Since 1969, the Gaddafi government has been very concerned with land reform.
history: Hamet's brother Yusuf (r.
history: The area was home to the renowned philosophy school of the Cyrenaics.
history: Acacias with wild olives are the predominant flora in the remainder of the Sahara.
history: Christianity spread in the 3rd–4th centuries.
history: By 1948, about 38,000 Jews remained in the country.
history: Montenegro covered the Serbian retreat toward the Adriatic coast in the Battle of Mojkovac on 6–7 January 1916, but ultimately the Austrians also conquered Montenegro.
history: Other common numeral prefixes for the number 1 include uni- (e.g., unicycle, universe, unicorn), sol- (e.g., solo dance), derived from Latin, or mono- (e.g., monorail, monogamy, monopoly) derived from Greek.
history: The headquarters of the Central Bank are in Tripoli.
history: But all this even, and the algorism, as well as the art of Pythagoras, I considered as almost a mistake in respect to the method of the Hindus [Modus Indorum].
history: Following the defeat by Ahmad Bek, Shibli occupied Rashayya and killed its governor, while Druze volunteers kept flowing in to join his forces.
history: Military operations, many of which result in battle, are given codenames, which are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of the type or the location of the battle.
history: Later, a second force of 6,000 regulars was sent, requiring the Druze to reorganize for more serious fighting.
history: In contexts where at least one adjacent digit distinguishes it from the letter O, the number is sometimes pronounced as oh or o ().
history: The Italian army was forced to enter Milan with tanks and machine guns to face Bolsheviks and anarchists, who fought violently until 23 May when the army gained control of the city.
history: Cost of barley and wheat production in some state managed agricultural projects.
history: A further 460 Serbs were sentenced to death.
history: The so-called "pacification of Libya" by the Italians resulted in mass deaths of the indigenous people in Cyrenaica, killing approximately one quarter of Cyrenaica's population of 225,000.
history: The combined forces of the beylerbey of Damascus, the imperial Damascene Janissaries, the sanjak-bey of Tripoli, and an Ottoman fleet launched an expedition against the Druze that year, but they were unable to subdue and disarm them.
history: The deceased from Birkirkara, Gudja and Qormi were buried in village cemeteries, while those in Żurrieq, Kirkop, Rabat, Mosta, Bubaqra and Attard were buried in churches, mostly ones which were disused.
history: He "looked out toward Sodom and Gomorrah" and saw what became of the cities of the plain, where not even "ten righteous" (v.
history: Some time after these events, the voice of the LORD came to Abram in a vision, promising him a "reward", namely a son, and repeating the promise of the land and descendants as numerous as the stars.
history: The Treaty of Küçük Kaynarca of 1774 ended the war and provided freedom of worship for the Christian citizens of the Ottoman-controlled provinces of Wallachia and Moldavia.
history: In piphilology, ten thousand is the current world record for the Number of digits of pi memorized by a human being.
history: Then he ran and bowed to the ground to welcome them.
history: Ottoman Tripolitania, also known as the Regency of Tripoli, was officially ruled by the Ottoman Empire from 1551 to 1912.
history: Multiplying any number by 0 results in 0, and consequently dividing by 0 is generally considered to be undefined in arithmetic.
history: 1658)
November 4 – Wolfgang Wilhelm, Count Palatine of Neuburg, Duke of Jülich and Berg (1614–1635) (d.
history: Zulus in the early 19th century were victorious in battles against their rivals in part because they adopted a new kind of spear, the iklwa.
history: The eyalet (also pashalik or beylerbeylik) was the territory of office of a beylerbey ("lord of lords" or governor), and was further subdivided into Sanjaks.
history: The FLN used hit and run attacks in Algeria and France as part of its war, and the French conducted severe reprisals.
history: In the following days, the Italian Army occupied Innsbruck and all Tyrol, with over 20,000 soldiers.
history: By 1881, the Ottoman Empire agreed to have its debt controlled by the Ottoman Public Debt Administration, a council of European men with presidency alternating between France and Britain.
history: 1501)
date unknown – Sabina, Duchess of Bavaria (b.
history: 1578 (MDLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday in the Julian calendar.
history: S2CID 131730725.
history: Influenza set sail from the capital, Constantinople, into the recently conquered North African territories of Tripoli (1551) and the Habesh (1557), from where it likely ricocheted to Malta from North Africa via merchant ships, as during the pandemic of 1510.
history: Initial measures to contain the epidemic were ineffective, largely because there was disagreement whether the disease was actually plague.
history: This road is supported by the Algerian government to increase trade between the six countries crossed: Algeria, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Chad, and Tunisia.
history: Additionally, Martin O'Kane, a professor of Biblical Studies, writes that the parable of Lazarus resting in the "Bosom of Abraham", as described in the Gospel of Luke, became an iconic image in Christian works.
history: It banned the FIS, triggering a civil insurgency between the Front's armed wing, the Armed Islamic Group, and the national armed forces, in which more than 100,000 people are thought to have died.
history: In the days after the Druze victory at Hasbaya, violence raged in the southern Beqaa Valley.
history: While the Harfushes continued to assault Baalbek, the Druze proceeded back south towards Zahlé, which at that time remained the last major Christian stronghold.
history: Zahle was believed by many Christians in Mount Lebanon to be unconquerable.
history: Believing that Serbian intelligence helped organise Franz Ferdinand's murder, Austrian officials wanted to use the opportunity to end Serbian interference in Bosnia and saw war as the best way of achieving this.
history: The conflict was marked by fierce internal divisions: FLN vs.
history: Pasta is the staple food in the Western side of Libya, whereas rice is generally the staple food in the east.
history: The Ottomans' advice to the Christians regarding disarmament was that it would help in not provoking the Druze.
history: Under al-Mu'izz ibn Badis, the Zirids cut ties with the Shia Fatimids in 1043, adopted Sunni Islam, and recognized the Abbasid Caliphate.
history: After the expedition, in the same year, the Sidon-Beirut Sanjak was detached from Damascus Eyalet and became part of Tripoli Eyalet, which was established in 1579.
history: The completion of the Torah and its elevation to the centre of post-Exilic Judaism was as much or more about combining older texts as writing new ones – the final Pentateuch was based on existing traditions.
history: hymn, Ten thousand times ten thousand.
history: During the 19th century, the development of mines led to a new type of naval warfare.
history: Exponentiation: x0 = ⁠x/x⁠ = 1, except that the case x = 0 is considered undefined in some contexts.
history: God then came to Abimelech in a dream and declared that taking her would result in his death, because she was a man's wife.
history: The final assault being fatally delayed, the Ottoman forces were swept away by allied Habsburg, German, and Polish forces spearheaded by the Polish king John III Sobieski at the Battle of Vienna.
history: Several hundred (possibly up to 1,000) largely disorganized and inexperienced Christian men from Hasbaya mobilized as well.
history: All those names are similar to the name used by the Berbers for themselves, such as Imazighen.
history: Selim III (1789–1807) made the first major attempts to modernise the army, but his reforms were hampered by the religious leadership and the Janissary corps.
history: In the Ottoman Empire, each millet established a schooling system serving its members.
history: However, the true motivations of the Maronite mobilization remain unclear.
history: Libya ranks 83rd out of 127 countries.
history: Cairo-Dakar Highway
Algiers-Lagos Highway
The Algerian road network is the densest in Africa; its length is estimated at 180,000 km (110,000 mi) of highways, with more than 3,756 structures and a paving rate of 85%.
history: ISBN 978-0-8018-5894-9.
history: This fraction is termed an infinite quantity.
history: Bakhit, Muhammad Adnan Salamah (February 1972).
history: The civil system was based on local administrative units based on the region's characteristics.
history: As a result, the first significant US involvement was the Meuse–Argonne offensive in late September 1918.
history: In March 1917, Tsar Nicholas ordered the military to forcibly suppress strikes in Petrograd but the troops refused to fire on the crowds.
history: With a population of over 47 million, Algeria is the tenth-most populous country in Africa.
history: The water provides 70% of all freshwater used in Libya.
history: In that year they were accused of collaborating with the Druze and Shia Muslims of the Safad Sanjak, south of Sidon-Beirut, and the Porte's order called for "get[ting] rid of [Qurqumaz] ibn Ma'n, whose trouble and evil deeds exceed all others".
history: 90% of the people live along the coast in less than 10% of the area.
history: Turin professor Francisco Vallerioli (aka Valleriola) writes that the 1510 flu featured "Constriction of breathing, and beginning with a hoarseness of voice and...
history: Abraham was "an hundred years old" when his son, whom he named Isaac, was born, and he circumcised him when he was eight days old.
history: In game shows, The $10,000 Pyramid ran on television from 1973 to 1974.
history: Derna in eastern Libya, historically a hotbed of jihad thought, came under the control of militants aligned with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in 2014.
history: August von Mackensen could not plan for another offensive as he had to transfer troops to the Italian Front.
history: Furthermore, there is a math puzzle regarding the word logic, such that LOGIC = (L+O+G+I+C)3.
history: One of the last casualties was a servant of Anne of Denmark, a quarter waiter called Watson.
history: February 6 – Pope Gregory XIII issues the papal bull Illius fulti praesidio and creates the Diocese of Manila, the first Roman Catholic diocese in the Philippines, with Domingo de Salazar as the first Bishop of Manila.
history: In Mandaeism, Adam is considered the founder of the religion and the first prophet.
history: After the fall of Carthage the Romans did not immediately occupy Tripolitania (the region around Tripoli), but left it instead under control of the kings of Numidia, until the coastal cities asked and obtained its protection.
history: 1535)
June 16 – Ioan Potcoavă, Russian Cossack ataman
July 2 – Thomas Doughty, English explorer (executed)
July 5 – Cristoforo Madruzzo, Italian Catholic cardinal (b.
history: For subsistence, milk, meat, hides and wool were gathered from their livestock for food, pitching tents and as clothing.
history: Musa ibn Nusayr completed the conquest of the western Maghreb, subduing Berber tribes, capturing Tangier, and integrating many converted Berbers into the Muslim army.
history: Although repopulated by Trajan with military colonies, from then started its decline.
history: The ethnic cleansing of the Ottoman Empire's Armenian population, including mass deportations and executions, during the final years of the Ottoman Empire is considered genocide.
history: The assassination initiated the July Crisis, a month of diplomatic manoeuvring among Austria-Hungary, Germany, Russia, France and Britain.
history: Sebastian's elderly uncle, Cardinal Henry, is named as the heir to the throne, initiating a succession crisis in Portugal.
history: 1643)
Thomas Coventry, 1st Baron Coventry, English lawyer (d.
history: 48 (3): 339–365.
history: Between 1,200 and 2,200 Christians had been killed in the onslaught and many more had fled.
history: Abraham reproached Abimelech due to his servants' aggressive attacks and the seizing of the well.
history: According to Ibn Khaldun, this claim is incorrect because Ibn Hazam had not read the books of the Berber scholars.
history: German U-boats attempted to cut the supply lines between North America and Britain.
history: A battle may end in a Pyrrhic victory, which ultimately favors the defeated party.
history: Omar Mukhtar rose to prominence as a resistance leader against Italian colonisation and became a national hero despite his capture and execution on 16 September 1931.
history: Serbia ordered general mobilisation on 25 July, but accepted all the terms, except for those empowering Austrian representatives to suppress "subversive elements" inside Serbia, and take part in the investigation and trial of Serbians linked to the assassination.
history: The varied vegetation of Algeria includes coastal, mountainous and grassy desert-like regions which all support a wide range of wildlife.
history: Libyans were known far and wide as glorious warriors with extraordinary physical strength; they were efficient in battle and effective when combined with an army.
history: In propositional logic, 0 may be used to denote the truth value false.
history: 1640)
Iwasa Matabei, Japanese painter (d.
history: Cairo, in particular, benefitted from the rise of Yemeni coffee as a popular consumer commodity.
history: Although only the actual governor, Khurshid Pasha (who was in Deir al-Qamar), could sanction an execution and the European consuls refused to give their blessing to it, Isma'il Pasha had the suspect executed within twelve hours of the Muslim man's killing to avert further violence.
history: The Ottoman sultan, pâdişâh or "lord of kings", served as the Empire's sole regent and was considered to be the embodiment of its government, though he did not always exercise complete control.
history: However, the GNC actually never participated, a sign that internal division not only affected the "Tobruk Camp", but also the "Tripoli Camp".
history: The English name for the number "ten" originates from the Proto-Germanic root "*tehun", which in turn comes from the Proto-Indo-European root "*dekm-".
history: In 2007, the Algerian Air Force signed a deal with Russia to purchase 49 MiG-29SMT and 6 MiG-29UBT at an estimated cost of $1.9 billion.
history: Anxious to ensure backing from the SPD political opposition by presenting Russia as the aggressor, German Chancellor Bethmann Hollweg delayed the commencement of war preparations until 31 July.
history: The Italian mathematician Fibonacci or Leonardo of Pisa was instrumental in bringing the system into European mathematics in 1202, stating:
history: Abram was 86 years of age when Ishmael was born.
history: The first novel published in the Ottoman Empire was Vartan Pasha's 1851 The Story of Akabi (Turkish: Akabi Hikyayesi).
history: Local Christian fears of attack increased during the celebrations of Zahle's fall, and the tension became more acute in late June as the four-day Muslim holiday of Eid al-Adha approached.
history: President Mohammed Magariaf promised that empowering the army and police force was the government's biggest priority in 2012.
history: In 1821, Mustafa al-Ahmar (al-Mukni's successor as Bey of Fezzan) led another expedition to the Lake Chad region to assist al-Kanimi, which was successful and returned with a large number of slaves.
history: Libya has high levels of social inequality, high rates of youth unemployment and regional economic disparities.
history: Their weapons included bows and arrows, hatchets, spears and daggers.
history: Climatic conditions and poor soils limit farm output, and domestic food production meets about 25% of demand.
history: This flu was highly infectious and presented with intense, occasionally lethal symptoms.
history: After the outbreak became more severe in March, Grand Master Hugues Loubenx de Verdalle requested assistance from the Viceroy of Sicily, who sent the Pietro Parisi from Trapani, a doctor who had experience with contagious diseases.
history: The Romans would have known them before their colonization of North Africa because of the Libyan role in the Punic Wars against the Romans.
history: Epidemics Resulting from Wars.
history: The area from the coast to the Tell Atlas is fertile.
history: The beylerbey was ordered to collect at least 6,000 muskets from the named chieftains and more from each household of the named subdistricts.
history: (109 decades is exactly 10 billion years.)
The universe is thought to be about 13.8 × 109 years old.
history: The illness was referred to as coqueluche.
history: As the boys were led to the Christian quarter, Muslim onlookers inquired about the situation and Abd al-Karim al-Samman, a brother of one of the arrested boys, yelled at the Ottoman guards to release the boys, and proceeded to chase after them with a stick.
history: Most of the coastal area is hilly, sometimes even mountainous, and there are a few natural harbours.
history: 1012 hours (about 114 million years) ago, Late Cretaceous dinosaurs dominated the land, and giant squids thrived in the oceans.
history: An epidemiological study of past influenza pandemics reviewing previous medical historians' data has found England was affected in 1510 and there were reports of symptoms like "gastrodynia" and noteworthy murrain among cattle.
history: Kierkegaard wanted to understand the anxiety that must have been present in Abraham when God asked him to sacrifice his son.
history: By 1565, administrative authority as regent in Tripoli was vested in a pasha appointed directly by the sultan in Constantinople/Istanbul.
history: Consequently, the Pasha ordered the execution of all attendees, and chased down the other tribe members, which resulted in the massacre of at least 10,000 people, who eventually sought refuge in neighboring countries, especially Egypt.
history: Following the attack, the Russian Empire (2 November 1914) and its allies France (5 November 1914) and the British Empire (5 November 1914) declared war on the Ottoman Empire.
history: 1623)
Grzegorz IV Radziwiłł, Polish magnate (d.
history: More than 500,000 birds are killed in this way each year, when protected areas have been seized by tribal chiefs who have appropriated them.
history: side of square with area 100 km2.
history: Is not the blood of our veins Macedonian?
history: "Where or When Was Your Servant Innocent?".
history: However, Berber converts were still treated as second-class non-Arabs; the difficult conquest of the Maghreb prompted the Umayyads to impose heavy taxation and oppressive governance.
history: According to a spokesman for GNA forces, Mustafa al-Mejii, dozens of LNA fighters under Haftar were killed, while at least 18 were taken prisoner.
history: Spanish cities were reportedly "dispopulated" by the 1510 flu.
history: The second phase took place in Chalkidiki and it was led by Tsamis Karatasos, former adjutant of King Otto.
history: The fear and insecurity which arose from these anti-Jewish attacks and the founding of the state of Israel led many Jews to flee Libya.
history: This allowed the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya state to provide an extensive level of social security, particularly in the fields of housing and education.
history: The title bey (Arabic: بيه Egyptian Arabic pronunciation: [beː]) was also called beyk or bek (بيك) – from Turkish beyg (بيـگ) – in North Africa, including Egypt.
history: Ostensibly, the appointed holders of iltizams, called multazims, were to remit taxes to the government and undertake official military duties; the local multazims did neither and were more powerful than the occasional government-appointed sanjak-bey (district governor).
history: The use of the term "battle" in military history has led to its misuse when referring to almost any scale of combat, notably by strategic forces involving hundreds of thousands of troops that may be engaged in either one battle at a time (Battle of Leipzig) or operations (Battle of Wuhan).
history: The plain to the north of Uweinat is dotted with eroded volcanic features.
history: It is written in scientific notation as 1 × 1013 or 1013 (1E+13 or simply 1E13 in E notation).
history: 62,000 Serbs decided the war!".
history: It is known as 10000 arab, 100 kharab, 10 lakh crore, or 1 nil in the Indian numbering system.
history: Walls of houses with confirmed or suspected cases of the disease were washed with seawater and whitewashed with lime, and similar measures were undertaken in burial grounds.
history: Between the 1850s and World War I, about a million North Caucasian Muslims arrived in the Ottoman Empire as refugees.
history: The Macedonian Rebellion of 1854 (Greek: Μακεδονική επανάσταση του 1854) was a Greek rebellion which took place in 1854 within the context of the Crimean War.
history: Womack, Mari (2005).
history: According to the United States soil classification, Aridisols and Entisols are the major soil orders in the country.
history: D'Hautpoul had experience and knowledge of the Middle East, as he had served during the 1830s as chief of staff for Ibrahim Pasha in the Egyptian campaigns in Southern Syria.
history: The Rum Millet, which encompassed most Eastern Orthodox Christians, was governed by the Byzantine-era Corpus Juris Civilis (Code of Justinian), with the Ecumenical Patriarch designated the highest religious and political authority (millet-bashi, or ethnarch).
history: The Ottoman participation in the war began with the combined German-Ottoman surprise attack on the Black Sea coast of the Russian Empire on 29 October 1914.
history: She had been examined by the doctor Giacomo Cassia, who informed the protomedicus Domenico Sciberras of the case, but they did not identify the disease as the plague.
history: Despite the successful June 1916 Brusilov offensive against the Austrians in eastern Galicia, shortages of supplies, heavy losses and command failures prevented the Russians from fully exploiting their victory.
history: Ottoman constructions were still abundant in Anatolia and in the Balkans (Rumelia), but in the more distant Middle Eastern and North African provinces older Islamic architectural styles continued to hold strong influence and were sometimes blended with Ottoman styles.
history: However, according to the Hypostasis of the Archons, a spirit descends on the physical Adam and gives him a living soul.
history: On 22 December 2021, Libya's Election Commission called for the postponement of the election until 24 January 2022.
history: They had no power outside the millet.
history: This gave France an opening to agree to the Franco-Russian Alliance in 1894, which was then followed by the 1904 Entente Cordiale with Britain.
history: Zero is represented by the absence of a knot in the appropriate position.
history: The Russian government decided not to mobilise in response, unprepared to precipitate a war.
history: The main sports Ottomans were engaged in were Turkish wrestling, hunting, Turkish archery, horseback riding, equestrian javelin throw, arm wrestling, and swimming.
history: Russian forces advanced into northeastern Anatolia and controlled the major cities there until retreating from World War I with the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk following the Russian Revolution in 1917.
history: Like every London plague since 1563, the 1603 epidemic began in the liberties.
history: The Italian plague of 1629–1631, also referred to as the Great Plague of Milan, was part of the second plague pandemic that began with the Black Death in 1348 and ended in the 18th century.
history: The process continued slowly, and lasted until August.
history: 0 plays various important roles in high-level languages.
history: The next year, the invasion was repeated but repelled at the Battle of Molodi.
history: Wheat and barley: Facts and Figures, 1968-1991.
history: Tools of this era, starting about 30,000 BC, are called Aterian (after the archaeological site of Bir el Ater, south of Tebessa).
history: doi:10.1016/S0968-8080(06)29279-6.
history: Minutes of immersion was tabulated from 0′0″ to 31′20″ to 0′0″, where 0′0″ used the symbol as a placeholder in two positions of his sexagesimal positional numeral system, while the combination meant a zero angle.
history: His thesis centered on the lack of compelling evidence that the patriarchs lived in the 2nd millennium BCE, and noted how certain biblical texts reflected first millennium conditions and concerns.
history: Zero is even (that is, a multiple of 2), and is also an integer multiple of any other integer.
history: (109 months is roughly 83.3 million years.)
About 109 years—a gigaannus—ago, the first multicellular eukaryotes appeared on Earth.
history: It also ranks 16th in oil reserves.
history: Khurram Pasha responded by launching a second punitive expedition against the Chouf on 18 June 1524, during which thirty villages were burned and the beylerbey returned the next day with three camel loads of Druze heads and 300 Druze women and children captives.
history: German forces achieved an unprecedented advance of 60 kilometres (37 mi).
history: The most significant challenge for the Sublime Porte (imperial Ottoman government in Constantinople) in the Levant had been the subjugation of its eastern desert and western mountainous peripheries.
history: Another invention in the late Middle Ages was the use of Greek fire by the Byzantines, which was used to set enemy fleets on fire.
history: 1,000,000 (one million), or one thousand thousand, is the natural number following 999,999 and preceding 1,000,001.
history: Since the closing of the ijtihad, or 'Gate of Interpretation', Qadis throughout the Ottoman Empire focused less on legal precedent, and more with local customs and traditions in the areas that they administered.
history: Only 20 days after its formation, Freedom and Accord won the December 1911 by-elections conducted in Constantinople by one vote.
history: Nevertheless, it was the largest party in the Chamber.
history: In scientific notation, it is written as 107.
history: Moreover, Spanish was spoken by these Aragonese and Castillian Morisco descendants deep into the 18th century, and even Catalan was spoken at the same time by Catalan Morisco descendants in the small town of Grish El-Oued.
history: In 1971, he began his undergraduate degree in English and planned to return to Jordan to continue teaching.
history: The war saw important developments in weaponry including tanks, aircraft, artillery, machine guns, and chemical weapons.
history: Algerian officials and activists believe that this is a good first step and hope that this move would encourage broader reparation.
history: Since the 19th century, a large proportion of Muslim peoples from the Balkans emigrated to present-day Turkey.
history: Just as Abraham was about to sacrifice his son, he was interrupted by the angel of the Lord, and he saw behind him a "ram caught in a thicket by his horns", which he sacrificed instead of his son.
history: (September 1994).
history: 1,787,109,376 : 1-automorphic number
1,801,088,541 = 217
1,804,229,351 = 715
1,808,141,741 : number of partitions of 280 into divisors of 280
1,808,676,326 : number of 38-bead necklaces (turning over is allowed) where complements are equivalent
1,836,311,903 : 46th Fibonacci number.
history: A large number of ethnic and religious minorities were tolerated in their own separate segregated domains called millets.
history: It was in these centres that most important developments in Ottoman architecture occurred and that the most monumental Ottoman architecture can be found.
history: Her increasingly incompetent rule and food shortages in urban areas led to widespread protests and the murder of her favourite, Grigori Rasputin, at the end of 1916.
history: In solo portraits a sword or knife may be used as his accessory, as in this statue by Giovanni Maria Morlaiter or this painting by Lorenzo Monaco.
history: Missionaries like the Society of Jesus in Brazil founder Manuel da Nóbrega continued to preach, host mass, and baptize converts in the New World even when symptomatic with contagious illnesses like influenza.
history: ISBN 9781860648564.
history: Before Storm Daniel, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs estimated that around 60,000 people were in need of humanitarian aid in Derna and environs.
history: He has had four sore fits, and is brought very low, and in danger of his life if they continue as they have done." Influenza began to move north through England, felling numerous farmers and leaving large quantities of grain unharvested before it reached London around mid-late October.
history: His funeral in Baakline was attended by approximately 50,000 mourners, including high-ranking political and religious leaders from across the Middle East.
history: In 2022, 18 provinces were declared by the Libyan Government of National Unity (Libyan Observer): the eastern coast, Jabal Al-Akhdar, Al-Hizam, Benghazi, Al-Wahat, Al-Kufra, Al-Khaleej, Al-Margab, Tripoli, Al-Jafara, Al-Zawiya, West Coast, Gheryan, Zintan, Nalut, Sabha, Al-Wadi, and Murzuq Basin.
history: Many international oil companies returned to the country, including oil giants Shell and ExxonMobil.
history: In Islam, Abraham holds an exalted position among the major prophets and he is referred to as Khalīlullāh, meaning 'Friend of God'.
history: Many Christians living in towns between Damascus and Mount Lebanon, such as Zabadani, also fled to Damascus due to the potential threat of attack by Druze forces.
history: In March 2011, the governor of CBL, Farhat Bengdara, resigned and defected to the rebelling side of the Libyan Civil War, having first arranged for the bulk of external Libyan assets to be frozen and unavailable to the Gaddafi government.
history: The earliest work of Ottoman historiography for example, the İskendernâme, was composed by the poet Taceddin Ahmedi.
history: In Christianity, Abraham is revered as the prophet to whom God chose to reveal himself and with whom God initiated a covenant (cf.
history: Reimagining Global Abortion Politics: A Social Justice Perspective (1 ed.).
history: Due to historically close ties with France, French literature constituted the major Western influence on Ottoman literature in the latter half of the 19th century.
history: For text fields this is not blank nor the empty string.
history: The vilayets were introduced with the promulgation of the "Vilayet Law" (Teskil-i Vilayet Nizamnamesi) in 1864, as part of the Tanzimat reforms.
history: This was strengthened by the spread of Pan-Arabism in the mid-20th century, and their reach to power in Libya where they instituted Arabic as the only official language of the state.
history: The Ottoman imperial system was charactised by an intricate combination of official Muslim hegemony over non-Muslims and a wide degree of religious tolerance.
history: Abdelmadjid Tebboune, an independent candidate, was elected as president after the election eventually took place on 12 December 2019.
history: This was not the first plague that Malta had gone through.
history: About 9,000 of the 22,000 people living in cities died in the epidemic, amounting to 41% of the population.
history: The British were aided in Mesopotamia by local Arab and Assyrian fighters, while the Ottomans employed local Kurdish and Turcoman tribes.
history: 1,934,917,632 = 725
1,977,326,743 = 711
1,979,339,339 : largest right-truncatable prime in decimal, if 1 is considered to be a prime
1,996,813,914 : Leyland number using 7 and 11 (711 + 117)
history: June 20 – The Frobisher expedition reaches Greenland.
history: The Ottoman Empire conquers Abkhazia.
history: Natural hazards come in the form of hot, dry, dust-laden sirocco (known in Libya as the gibli).
history: He lost 86% of his force at the Battle of Sarikamish.
history: Ιστορία του βορείου ελληνισμού Ιστορική εξέλιξη του Μακεδονικού χώρου (1830-1912) [History of Northern Hellenism Historic development of the Macedonian area (1830-1912)] (in Greek).
history: Lacking recognisable heroes and villains, it is often taught thematically, invoking simplified tropes that obscure the complexity of the conflict.
history: Neolithic civilisation (animal domestication and agriculture) developed in the Saharan and Mediterranean Maghreb perhaps as early as 11,000 BC or as late as between 6000 and 2000 BC.
history: Ottoman government deliberately pursued a policy for the development of Bursa, Edirne, and Istanbul, successive Ottoman capitals, into major commercial and industrial centres, considering that merchants and artisans were indispensable in creating a new metropolis.
history: World War I began as a clash of 20th-century technology and 19th-century tactics, with the inevitably large ensuing casualties.
history: Fatality reports ranged from 70 to 100 slain Druze and 17 to 25 Christians.
history: The battles lasted from 22 July to 3 September and eventually the Romanian army was victorious advancing 500 km2.
history: Following a subsequent Berber revolt, Rome abolished the last client kingdoms and imposed direct rule, dividing the territory into provinces (Mauretania Caesariensis, Mauretania Tingitana, and Africa Proconsularis).
history: Panic ensued among the Christians in Beirut, and many were assaulted or threatened, including Europeans.
history: The details were contained in the treaties of Saint-Germain-en-Laye and Trianon.
history: This use was repeated in 525 in an equivalent table, that was translated via the Latin nulla ("none") by Dionysius Exiguus, alongside Roman numerals.
history: Battles can also be determined by terrain.
history: In 2022, it was estimated that 33% of the population was Francophone.
history: For example, for an absolute temperature (typically measured in kelvins), zero is the lowest possible value.
history: Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes in Alaska.
history: Hence the ruling classes of all three polities were bilingual in varieties of Persian and Turkic.
history: In September 1914, Russia acknowledged Romanian rights to Austro-Hungarian territories including Transylvania and Banat, whose acquisition had widespread popular support, and Russian success against Austria led Romania to join the Entente in the August 1916 Treaty of Bucharest.
history: This culminated in the Battle of Vittorio Veneto, marking the end of the Austro-Hungarian Army as an effective fighting force.
history: In the 1990s, the government's rule was threatened by militant Islamism and an unsuccessful attempt to assassinate Gaddafi.
history: 10,000,020,331 = smallest triangular number with 11 digits and the 141,421st triangular number
10,123,457,689 = smallest pandigital prime in base 10.
history: Duwayhi's account was reproduced almost identically by the 19th-century, Lebanon-based chroniclers Haydar al-Shihabi (d.
history: The Republican Turkish authorities abolished the title circa the 1930s.
history: The regions or provinces where "beys" ruled or which they administered were called beylik, roughly meaning "governorate" or "region" (the equivalent of a county, duchy, grand duchy or principality in Europe, depending on the size and importance of the beylik).
history: The Sūnzĭ Suànjīng, of unknown date but estimated to be dated from the 1st to 5th centuries AD, describe how the 4th century BC Chinese counting rods system enabled one to perform positional decimal calculations.
history: 1,000,000,000,000 (one trillion on the short scale; one billion on the long scale; one thousand billion; one million million) is the natural number following 999,999,999,999 and preceding 1,000,000,000,001.
history: Category theory introduces the idea of a zero object, often denoted 0, and the related concept of zero morphisms, which generalize the zero function.
history: After this, Enver and Talaat Bey entered Grand Vizier Kâmil Pasha's room and forced him to write a letter of resignation at gunpoint.
history: The Allies had advanced to the Hindenburg Line in the north and centre.
history: Gaddafi financed various other groups from anti-nuclear movements to Australian trade unions.
history: This sculpture depicts the dilemma faced by Abraham when Sarah demanded that he expel Hagar and Ishmael.
history: The Serbian capture of ports on the Adriatic resulted in partial Austrian mobilisation, starting on 21 November 1912, including units along the Russian border in Galicia.
history: The Almoravids (Al-Murabitun), a puritanical religious-military movement of Sanhaja Berbers (mainly the Lamtuna tribe) from the Sahara in Mauritania, was founded in the mid-11th century by the Maliki scholar Abd Allah ibn Yasin.
history: Symbols and Meaning: A Concise Introduction.
history: Libyan cuisine is a mixture of the different Italian, Bedouin and traditional Arab culinary influences.
history: With the death or absence of the primary wage earner, women were forced into the workforce in unprecedented numbers.
history: A unique health number allotted to each citizen will facilitate access to medical records.
history: Competing militias pitted themselves against each other in a political struggle between Islamist politicians and their opponents.
history: The primary purpose of the Imperial Harem was to ensure the birth of male heirs to the Ottoman throne and secure the continuation of the direct patrilineal (male-line) power of the Ottoman sultans in the future generations.
history: The 10,000 Day War: Vietnam by Michael Maclear ISBN 0-312-79094-5  also alternate titles The ten thousand day war: Vietnam, 1945–1975 (10,000 days is 27.4 years).
history: According to the Guttmacher Institute, 64% of reproductive-aged women in Libya have an unmet need for contraception, which contributes to abortions.
history: Severe anti-Jewish violence erupted in Libya following the liberation of North Africa by Allied troops.
history: "Bey" Archived 20 November 2005 at the Wayback Machine at Encyclopaedia of the Orient.
history: 1012 days from now, Earth's overall surface temperature will reach 420 K.
history: The coronation of James VI and Anne of Denmark went ahead on 25 July.
history: I doubt it, and the lean applause of the crowd at the inauguration of the [new] Grand Vizier [Mahmud Shevket Pasha] and the Sheik ul-Islam [after the coup] has done nothing to soothe my uncertainty.
history: Other opposition came from conscientious objectors—some socialist, some religious—who had refused to fight.
history: Most reforestation occurred in western Libya.
history: Some Turks settled in Libya during the rule of the Ottoman Empire.
history: But in all this, the financial and political interests of the state were dominant.
history: It was only after various European physicians gave their opinions that it was plague that strict containment measures were enforced, but by then it was too late.
history: This resulted in around 400,000 Muslims fleeing with the retreating Ottoman armies (with many dying from cholera brought by the soldiers), and 400,000 non-Muslims fled territory still under Ottoman rule.
history: The adult literacy rate in 2010 was 89.2%.
history: 4, Istanbul: Baha Matbaasi
history: During the 19th century the Empire came under pressure from Western European countries to outlaw the practice.
history: The politics of the state had a number of advisors and ministers gathered around a council known as Divan.
history: The earliest known use of the term First World War appeared in September 1914, when German biologist and philosopher Ernst Haeckel wrote that the ongoing "European War" would become "the first world war in the full sense of the word."
history: The economy became heavily dependent on France, dominated by vineyards at the expense of food production, leaving the Muslim population marginalized, discriminated against, and impoverished.
history: From the oldest and most famous of the Greek colonies, the fertile coastal plain took the name of Cyrenaica.
history: She prudently  banned the transportation of goods into Windsor from London, as she too had a fear of contagion.
history: The war in Mount Lebanon and the Beqaa Valley caused inter-communal tension throughout Ottoman Syria.
history: When the war spread to the Beqaa Valley, which was geographically closer to Damascus, a number of Damascenes volunteered or were dispatched to the battlefronts, including Muslims from the Salihiya quarter who marched towards Zahle.
history: The Groupe Salafiste pour la Prédication et le Combat (GSPC), a splinter group of the Armed Islamic Group, continued a terrorist campaign against the Government.
history: After the Empire lost the First Balkan War (1912–1913), it lost all its Balkan territories except East Thrace (European Turkey).
history: One of the most successful was the SMS Emden, part of the German East Asia Squadron stationed at Qingdao, which seized or sank 15 merchantmen, a Russian cruiser and a French destroyer.
history: 118–106 BC) reunified Numidia through ruthless means but provoked Rome through conflict and the massacre of Roman citizens at Cirta.
history: That time coincided with the Nakba and the consequent bustling of political thought in the university, which attracted students and notable thinkers from across the Levant, as well as North Africa.
history: Ultimately the 1557 flu lasted in varying waves of intensity for around four years in epidemics that increased European death rates, disrupted the highest levels of society, and frequently spread to other continents.
history: The traditional mourning customs of the Maltese seem to have changed as a result of the 1676 plague.
history: The Ottomans absorbed some of the traditions, art, and institutions of cultures in the regions they conquered and added new dimensions to them.
history: These people are called Muhacir.
history: On 17 March 2011, the UN Security Council passed Resolution 1973, with a 10–0 vote and five abstentions including Russia, China, India, Brazil and Germany.
history: Since the fall of Gaddafi, ultra-conservative strains of Islam have reasserted themselves in places.
history: Among the Berber groups are the minority Berber populations of Zuwarah and the Nafusa Mountains.
history: Their greatest achievement was the successful shift of the caliphate's centre to Egypt; Under al-Mu'izz, the brilliant general Jawhar al-Siqilli conquered Egypt in 969, founded Cairo and al-Azhar University, and the Fatimids moved their capital to Egypt in 971.
history: California War History Committee.
history: The ancient Libyans were mainly pastoral nomads, living off their goats, sheep and other livestock.
history: The exact cause of the outbreak remains uncertain, but infected merchandise from North Africa seems to be a likely source since the disease first appeared in the household of a merchant who had received goods from Tripoli.
history: Since the storm many of the hospitals and primary health facilities in Derna and eastern Libya have been rendered partially or completely nonfunctional.
history: Subsequently, a specific issue arises in relation to a well which Abraham has dug but which Abimelech's servants have taken over.
history: Some migrations left indelible marks such as political tension between parts of the empire (e.g., Turkey and Bulgaria), whereas centrifugal effects were noticed in other territories, simpler demographics emerging from diverse populations.
history: The number 0 is the smallest nonnegative integer, and the largest nonpositive integer.
history: 300 BCE) eras.
history: The opposition parties, already sidelined by the coup, were heavily repressed by the CUP.
history: Upon Libyan independence in 1951, most of the Jewish community emigrated.
history: Other Beys saw their own Beylik promoted to statehood, e.g.:
history: Family life is important for Libyan families, the majority of whom live in apartment blocks and other independent housing units, with modes of housing depending on their income and wealth.
history: The mixture of peoples of North Africa coalesced eventually into a distinct native population that came to be called Berbers, who are the indigenous peoples of northern Africa.
history: Some 21st-century authors re-periodise conquest of the Balkans into the akıncı phase, which spanned 8 to 13 decades, characterised by continuous slave hunting and destruction, followed by administrative integration into the Empire.
history: Tripolitania remained under their control until 1146, when the region was overtaken by the Normans of Sicily.
history: Libya became the setting for the hard-fought North African Campaign that ultimately ended in defeat for Italy and its German ally in 1943.
history: The Grand Vizier had considerable independence from the sultan with almost unlimited powers of appointment, dismissal, and supervision.
history: The disturbances spread to Latakia and to central Mount Lebanon.
history: The British sponsored Arab nationalism in the First World War, promising an independent Arab state in return for Arab support.
history: There are a total of 346,065,536,839 positive primes less than it.
history: The Chinese-made drone Wing Loong II fired Blue Arrow 7 missile, which was operated from UAE-run Al-Khadim Libyan air base.
history: The Great Powers gave a note to the Sublime Porte (the Ottoman government) that they wanted the Ottoman Empire to cede Adrianople (Edirne) to Bulgaria and the Aegean islands under its control, most of which by that time had been captured by the Greek Navy, to the Great Powers themselves.
history: Consequently, the Ottoman presence in the Druze areas, as well as the non-Druze nahiyas of Sidon-Beirut, was negligible for much of the 16th and 17th centuries, during which time local chieftains, Druze and Muslim alike, governed the area through iltizam (limited-term tax farms).
history: Backed by Wilhelm II, Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz sought to use this growth to build an Imperial German Navy that could compete with the British Royal Navy.
history: After landing near Carthage, Belisarius decisively defeated the Vandals in two battles, occupied Carthage, and captured King Gelimer, who was exiled to Anatolia.
history: The Ottomans decided to conquer Venetian Cyprus and on 22 July 1570, Nicosia was besieged; 50,000 Christians died, and 180,000 were enslaved.
history: Unlike the previous eyalet system, the 1864 law established a hierarchy of administrative units: the vilayet, liva/sanjak/mutasarrifate, kaza and village council, to which the 1871 Vilayet Law added the nahiye.
history: The corsair industry alone accounted for 25 percent of the workforce of the city, not counting other activities of the port.
history: JSTOR 164015.
history: The two most important Deys were Mehmed Saqizli (r.
history: Emir Khaled (grandson of Abdelkader) called for broader democratic rights and was deported in 1923.
history: The Karamanli dynasty (also spelled Caramanli or Qaramanli) was an autonomous dynasty that ruled Ottoman Tripolitania from 1711 to 1835.
history: Some papers identify Abraham with the Amorite chieftain Abum, and his son Ishmael with Sumulael.
history: Eastern Libya again fell under the control of the Greeks, this time as part of the Ptolemaic Kingdom.
history: Grand Master Cotoner pledged to support the victims of the disease, and he gave alms to the needy.
history: Mikhail Mishaqa wrote his account of the events, which eventually resulted in him writing a historical work on Syria in the 18th and 19th century.
history: On 3 November, the Armistice of Villa Giusti ended hostilities between Austria-Hungary and Italy which occupied Trieste and areas along the Adriatic Sea awarded to it in 1915.
history: but there remains a terrible cough that lasts maybe eight days, and then they recover." This data would indicate that the first cases of flu, which has an incubation period of one to four days, began to fall ill in the Emilia-Romagna region around late June or early July.
history: Media related to Barbary Coast at Wikimedia Commons
history: The League quickly overran most of the Ottomans' territory in the Balkans during the 1912–1913 First Balkan War, much to the surprise of outside observers.
history: However, in typefaces with text figures (also known as Old style numerals or non-lining figures), the glyph usually is of x-height and designed to follow the rhythm of the lowercase, as, for example, in .
history: Five synagogues in Tripoli and four in provincial towns were destroyed, and over 1,000 Jewish residences and commercial buildings were plundered in Tripoli alone.
history: The Regency of Tripoli was defeated by the newly revived United States Navy.
history: During this time it was believed that a lot of places that had been affected were those with high numbers of travellers, as well as those places where poor people would lie as it was believed they had fewer facilities to be able to clean up and control the spread of the disease.
history: Youth unemployment was 29.4% in 2025.
history: The successive defeats prompted Ibrahim Pasha to arrive from Aleppo by himself.
history: The surrendered guns were soon looted by the Druze and according to the British consul, this had been Uthman Bey's actual intention.
history: The government hopes to increase food production to 800,000 tonnes of cereals by 2020.
history: Adam and humanity are cursed to die and return to the earth (or ground) from which he was formed.
history: Ali II was the last of the dynasty.
history: In addition, financial support was provided for university scholarships and employment programs.
history: In the elections, the FLN lost 66 of its seats, but remained the largest party with 98 seats.
history: doi:10.1111/j.1759-5436.2008.tb00458.x.
history: The first military unit of the Ottoman State was an army that was organised by Osman I from the tribesmen inhabiting the hills of western Anatolia in the late 13th century.
history: Pingala used the Sanskrit word śūnya explicitly to refer to zero.
history: A national assembly crafted a constitution that established a monarchy and extended an offer for the throne to Sayyid Idris, the Emir of Cyrenaica.
history: The outbreak appeared in Kalkara and some cases were reported in Żabbar and the urban area around the Grand Harbour.
history: The arsenals were provided using mercantile ships which docked in the Syrian ports.
history: Following Zahle's fall, groups of Sunni and Shia Muslims from Baalbek used the opportunity to settle scores with local Christians and plunder the town and its vicinity.
history: On eleven occasions, the sultan was deposed (replaced by another sultan of the Ottoman dynasty, who were either the former sultan's brother, son or nephew) because he was perceived by his enemies as a threat to the state.
history: Houses of infected people were guarded, and restrictions were imposed on movement between Valletta and the rest of the island.
history: On 8 August, the National Transitional Council officially handed power over to the wholly elected General National Congress, which was then tasked with the formation of an interim government and the drafting of a new Libyan Constitution to be approved in a general referendum.
history: It flourished economically due to its control of the major overland trade routes between Europe and Asia.
history: A period of civil war ensued, with no ruler able to hold office for more than a year.
history: In line with the expressed instruction of the Grand Sanusi, these gains were made largely without any coercion.
history: Philosophically, 1 symbolizes the ultimate reality or source of existence in various traditions.
history: 1,000,000,000,000 has a total of 169 divisors (156 even, 13 odd), whose geometric mean is 1,000,000.
history: A branch of the family, led by Hammad ibn Buluggin, broke away and established the Hammadid Dynasty (408–552 AH / 1018–1152 CE) in central Algeria.
history: 1,134,903,170 : 45th Fibonacci number.
history: As late as 2007, unexploded ordnance at battlefield sites like Verdun and Somme continued to pose a danger.
history: Revelation 5:11 And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders: and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands.
history: Among the most important universities, there are the University of Sciences and Technology Houari Boumediene, the University of Mentouri Constantine, and University of Oran Es-Senia.
history: According to the Great Karnak Inscription, the military alliance comprised the Meshwesh, the Lukka, and the "Sea Peoples" known as the Ekwesh, Teresh, Shekelesh, and the Sherden.
history: He was to be rewarded in virtue of his trust in God.
history: As a result of this conflict, the Ottoman Turks ceded the provinces of Tripolitania, Fezzan, and Cyrenaica to Italy.
history: Libya was early to convert to Nicene Christianity and was the home of Pope Victor I; however, Libya was also home to many non-Nicene varieties of early Christianity, such as Arianism and Donatism.
history: Driven forward by military escorts, the deportees were deprived of food and water and subjected to periodic robbery, rape, and systematic massacre.
history: Notably, the ethnic designation of Uzbeks comes from the name of Öz Beg Khan of the Golden Horde, being an example of the usage of this word in personal names and even names of whole ethnic groups.
history: Habsburg Netherlands was also heavily impacted by the flu in October.
history: The area of Mount Lebanon and the port towns of Sidon and Beirut became administratively part of the Sidon-Beirut Sanjak, a district of Damascus Eyalet.
history: During his sojourning in Canaan, Abraham was accustomed to extend hospitality to travelers and strangers and taught how to praise God also knowledge of God to those who had received his kindness.
history: Planting program goals included growing enough trees to meet domestic lumber needs, soil conservation and reclamation, and windbreaks for crops and settlements.
history: In one papyrus written around 1770 BC, a scribe recorded daily incomes and expenditures for the pharaoh's court, using the nfr hieroglyph to indicate cases where the amount of a foodstuff received was exactly equal to the amount disbursed.
history: The population of Libya is primarily of Arab ancestry.
history: Padua began to see cases in August, with sickness lasting into September.
history: For numeric fields it is not the value zero.
history: Serbian and French troops finally made a breakthrough in September 1918 in the Vardar offensive, after most German and Austro-Hungarian troops had been withdrawn.
history: John Jones, contracted plague after staying in the house of a sick person but survived the illness.
history: The British administration began the training of a badly needed Libyan civil service.
history: This eclectic administration was apparent even in the diplomatic correspondence of the Empire, which was initially undertaken in the Greek language to the west.
history: Secularists and liberals did well in the elections, to the consternation of Islamist lawmakers in the GNC, who reconvened and declared a continuing mandate for the GNC, refusing to recognise the new House of Representatives.
history: The Selective Service Act of 1917 drafted 2.8 million men, though training and equipping such numbers was a huge logistical challenge.
history: Later, as an adjective, it acquired the meaning of "rich".
history: From the Persian poetry that largely inspired it, it inherited a wealth of symbols whose meanings and interrelationships—both of similitude (مراعات نظير mura'ât-i nazîr / تناسب tenâsüb) and opposition (تضاد tezâd) were more or less prescribed.
history: The most well-known Karamanli ruler was Yusuf ibn Ali Karamanli who reigned from 1795 to 1832, who fought a war with the United States between 1801 and 1805.
history: Ġan Franġisk Bonamico, who survived the plague, wrote that it entered the island in a cargo of textiles from Tripoli which was delivered to Bonnici.
history: He appoints the Prime Minister who is also the head of government.
history: In mathematics, there is no "positive zero" or "negative zero" distinct from zero; both −0 and +0 represent exactly the same number.
history: Lacking tanks or motorised artillery, the Germans were unable to consolidate their gains.
history: Addition: x + 0 = 0 + x = x.
history: It restored the Constitution of the Ottoman Empire and brought in multi-party politics with a two-stage electoral system (electoral law) under the Ottoman parliament.
history: He did not conceive of this original sin of Adam as being biologically transmitted or that later generations were to be punished for the deeds of a remote ancestor.
history: A Nest of Corsairs: The Fighting Karamanlis of the Barbary Coast.
history: In 2010, spending on healthcare accounted for 3.88% of the country's GDP.
history: The fall of Muammar Gaddafi's regime favoured intense poaching: "Before the fall of Gaddafi even hunting rifles were forbidden.
history: Despite the vast sums spent by Tirpitz, the launch of HMS Dreadnought in 1906 made every existing battleship obsolete, and gave the British a technological advantage they never relinquished.
history: He was strongly supported by AEF commander General John J.
history: In 203–202 BC, Masinissa of the Massyli, after being supported by Rome and playing a key role in the Battle of Zama against Carthaginian general Hannibal, defeated his western rivals (including Syphax) and unified the territories into the Kingdom of Numidia.
history: Growing tensions in the Balkans reached a breaking point on 28 June 1914 when Gavrilo Princip, a Bosnian Serb, assassinated Franz Ferdinand, the heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne.
history: For some quantities, the zero level is naturally distinguished from all other levels, whereas for others it is more or less arbitrarily chosen.
history: Hessini, Leila (May 2007).
history: God then described to Abram the land that his offspring would claim: the land of the Kenites, Kenizzites, Kadmonites, Hittites, Perizzites, the Rephaim, Amorites, Canaanites, Girgashites, and Jebusites.
history: No longer is a condition either true or false, but it can be undetermined.
history: The city was founded in 950 by the Sanhaja Berber Emir Buluggin ibn Ziri on the site of the ancient city of Icosium, and its name later appeared in the writings of medieval Muslim geographers such as Al-Bakri.
history: The caliphate was abolished, madrasas were closed down, and the sharia courts were abolished.
history: The Belgian city of Bruges, controlled by Spain, falls to Dutch rebels.
history: In November 2024, the Government of National Unity announced it would instate a morality police to crack-down on "weird haircuts", enforce "modest" clothing, and require male guardians for women.
history: 'Riot of the Christians'), broke out in July when a crowd of Druzes, Bedouins, Arab Muslim city commoners, and Kurdish auxiliary forces attacked the inner city Christian neighborhood of Bab Tuma, resulting in the death of thousands of Christians.
history: Maronite peasants began to prepare for an armed uprising against their Druze lords.
history: Libya is highly vulnerable to the effects of climate change and underprepared to deal with them.
history: After the outbreak, quarantine and disinfection of mail were adopted in Malta.
history: In recent years, many of these generals have died, retired, or been imprisoned.
history: Physical quantities can also be expressed using the SI prefix mega (M), when dealing with SI units; for example, 1 megawatt (1 MW) equals 1,000,000 watts.
history: The dominance of Ibrahim Pasha over Ottoman Syria diminished with the 1840 agreement, which was signed during the Second Egyptian-Ottoman War (1839-1841).
history: Influenza's symptoms came on suddenly and attacked thousands of the city's residents at the same time.
history: The Ottomans became involved in multi-continental religious wars when Spain and Portugal were united under the Iberian Union.
history: In abstract algebra, 0 is commonly used to denote a zero element, which is the identity element for addition (if defined on the structure under consideration) and an absorbing element for multiplication (if defined).
history: It borders the Mediterranean Sea to the north, Egypt to the east, Sudan to the southeast, Chad to the south, Niger to the southwest, Algeria to the west, and Tunisia to the northwest.
history: Battles are usually named after some feature of the battlefield geography, such as a town, forest or river, commonly prefixed "Battle of...".
history: The Uzbek Khanate of Khiva, Emirate of Bukhara and The Khanate of Kokand used the "beks" as local administrations of "bekliks" or provinces.
history: Below is the list of basic calculations of 10,000,000,000,000:
history: Restrictive measures were imposed and the outbreak was contained after causing 20 deaths.
history: Since 2007 some new private universities such as the Libyan International Medical University have been established.
history: In 40 AD, Emperor Caligula executed Juba II's son Ptolemy.
history: the third season, saying: 'The wretched, fallen chief of Libya, Meryey, son of Ded, has fallen upon the country of Tehenu with his bowmen—Sherden, Shekelesh, Ekwesh, Lukka, Teresh.
history: 1602)
January 10 – Christopher Clitherow, Lord Mayor of London and Member of Parliament (d.
history: After the 1969 coup d'état, Muammar Gaddafi closed American and British bases and partly nationalised foreign oil and commercial interests in Libya.
history: In 1801, Yusuf demanded a tribute of $225,000 from United States President Thomas Jefferson.
history: The Ottoman army was also the first institution to hire foreign experts and send its officers for training in western European countries.
history: By 1821 Yusuf also agreed to aid the British in sending heir explorers to Bornu, but they encountered difficulties when al-Kanimi learned of Yusuf's designs on Bornu.
history: The following are some basic rules for dealing with the number 0.
history: However, this is not common anymore, and the word has been used to mean one thousand million (1,000,000,000) for several decades.
history: In Sicily it was commonly called coccolucio for the hood (resembling a coqueluchon - a kind of monk's cowl) the sick often wore over their heads.
history: In September 2012, however, the world record figure of 58 °C was determined to be invalid by the World Meteorological Organization.
history: The local Christian chronicler Mikhail Mishaqah expressed surprise at Muslim panic about the local Christians due to the significant military advantage of the local Muslims and Ottoman authorities against the local Christians, who were largely unarmed.
history: In 2022 it was announced that English would be taught in elementary schools.
history: But since 2011, poaching has been carried out with weapons of war and sophisticated vehicles in which one can find up to 200 gazelle heads killed by militiamen who hunt to pass the time.
history: The Eastern Front was more dynamic, but neither side gained a decisive advantage, despite costly offensives.
history: More generally, in algebra, it denotes the multiplicative identity in any unital ring or field.
history: Algeria has universal suffrage at 18 years of age.
history: The Long Turkish War against Habsburg Austria (1593–1606) created the need for greater numbers of Ottoman infantry equipped with firearms, resulting in a relaxation of recruitment policy.
history: Bey was also the title that was awarded by the Ottoman Sultan in the twilight of the Ottoman Empire to Oloye Mohammed Shitta, an African merchant prince of the Yoruba people who served as a senior leader of the Muslim community in the kingdom of Lagos.
history: The city itself became wealthy and heavily fortified, especially after failed European expeditions such as the attack of Emperor Charles V in 1541.
history: Abraham is mentioned in 35 chapters of the Quran, more often than any other biblical personage apart from Moses.
history: An aid-de-camp and nephew of Nazım Pasha, Kıbrıslı Tevfik Bey, had also drawn his revolver and fired at the raid party, his bullet also striking Mustafa Necip.
history: 63,129 primes between 7,000,000 and 8,000,000.
history: Writers such as Pliny the Elder, Diodorus Siculus, and Procopius also contributed to what is now primary source material on ancient Libya and the Libyans.
history: Alarm was raised at Windsor by the death of Queen Elizabeth's chambermaid Lady Scrope from plague on 21 August within the castle, which almost sent the royal court fleeing a second time.
history: Secretariat of Agriculture Land Reclamation and Animal Wealth .
history: It also participated in many Summer Olympics, such as the 2016 Summer Olympics, the 2008 Summer Olympics and more.
history: Each natural number, including 1, is constructed by succession, that is, by adding 1 to the previous natural number.
history: In philosophy, Lao Zi writes about ten thousand things in the Tao Te Ching.
history: Its Old Turkic cognate beg, which – in the form bäg – has been mentioned as early as in the 8th century AD Orkhon inscriptions and is usually translated as "tribal leader".
history: The students can also learn English, Italian, Spanish and German.
history: Order was not recovered easily, and the revolt of the Libyan under Abd-El-Gelil and Gûma ben Khalifa lasted until the death of the latter in 1858.
history: Agricultural slavery, like that in the Americas, was relatively rare.
history: The eponymous track on Bob Dylan's 1965 album Highway 61 Revisited contains five stanzas, with someone in each describing an unusual problem that is ultimately resolved on Highway 61.
history: In 1593, the Order requested assistance from Sicily to deal with the epidemic, and the measures taken were effective in containing plague.
history: German forces launched numerous counterattacks, but positions and outposts of the Line continued falling, with the BEF alone taking 30,441 prisoners in the last week of September.
history: The Hammadids were finally defeated by Abd al-Mu'min, the founder of the Almohad Caliphate, in 1152, ending both Sanhaja dynasties in the region.
history: The Bulgarians were defeated at the Battle of Dobro Pole, and by 25 September British and French troops had crossed the border into Bulgaria proper as the Bulgarian army collapsed.
history: Following Mahmud II's reign and the Tanzimat reforms over the course of the 19th century, the Ottoman state became more powerful and organised internally as a new Ottoman identity took hold.
history: The Order's fleet was anchored in open sea at night, and a temporary accommodation was built at Marsamxett for patients.
history: In 1977, Libya's fishing catch was 4,803 tons and 6,418 tons by 1981.
history: The roots of Algerian literature go back to the Numidian and Roman African era, when Apuleius wrote The Golden Ass, the only Latin novel to survive in its entirety.
history: There are a total of 1,229 prime numbers less than ten thousand, a count that is itself prime.
history: The outbreak began in the household of the Port Chief Sanitary Officer, and it is possible that it was caused by handling refuse from the earlier epidemic.
history: This is seen as a guidance for human-life, who sin, become aware of their mistake, and repent.
history: Abu-Husayn, Abdul-Rahim (1993).
history: The Ottomans threatened Russia's Caucasian territories and Britain's communications with India via the Suez Canal.
history: A jury of sailors convicts Doughty of treason and attempted mutiny.
history: other: 98.78% (2005).
history: However, to make the CBL services more accessible to commercial banks, branches and public departments located far from the headquarters.
history: King Louis XII's National Assembly of Bishops, Prelates, and university professors scheduled for September 1510 was delayed because of the intensity of the flu in Paris.
history: Surgeons and doctors from Naples and Marseille arrived on Malta within a month, either as volunteers or under paid contracts.
history: In 1997, the low annual catch of 34,500 mt demonstrates Libya’s still underdeveloped fisheries.
history: Licensed under CC BY 4.0 (license statement/permission).
history: 4,486,784,401 : Leyland number using 9 and 10 (910 + 109)
4,586,471,424 = 247
4,704,270,176 = 865
4,750,104,241 = 689212 = 16813 = 416
4,807,526,976 : 48th Fibonacci number.
history: The British were forced to dispatch 12,000 troops to oppose them in the Senussi campaign.
history: The most powerful man might have been Mohamed Mediène, the head of military intelligence, before he was brought down during the 2019 protests.
history: Because it afflicted entire populations at once in mass outbreaks, some contemporary scholars thought the flu was caused by stars, contaminated vapors brought about by damp weather, or the dryness of the air.
history: The negotiations failed and the Entente powers rejected the German offer on the grounds of honour, and noted Germany had not put forward any specific proposals.
history: Several artists have been inspired by the life of Abraham, including Albrecht Dürer (1471–1528), Caravaggio (1573–1610), Donatello, Raphael, Philip van Dyck (Dutch painter, 1680–1753), and Claude Lorrain (French painter, 1600–1682).
history: Between 29 and 31 May, 60 villages were destroyed in the vicinity of Beirut, and 33 Christians and 48 Druzes were murdered.
history: * Increasing a quantity by one order of magnitude is most widely understood to mean multiplying the quantity by ten.
history: Programmers often use a slashed zero to avoid confusion with the letter "O".
history: During the Tanzimat period (1839–1876), the government's series of constitutional reforms led to a fairly modern conscripted army, banking system reforms, the decriminalisation of homosexuality, the replacement of religious law with secular law, and guilds with modern factories.
history: James Lewis Farley, in a letter, spoke of 326 villages, 560 churches, 28 colleges, 42 convents, and 9 other religious establishments having been totally destroyed.
history: After a combined Austro-German force won a major victory at Caporetto, Cadorna was replaced by Armando Diaz who retreated more than 100 kilometres (62 mi) before holding positions along the Piave River.
history: It is neither a prime number nor a composite number.
history: He calculated the eccentricity of the Sun's orbit and the annual motion of the apogee.
history: During the American Civil War, the Union tended to name the battles after the nearest watercourse, such as the Battle of Wilsons Creek and the Battle of Stones River, whereas the Confederates favoured the nearby towns, as in the Battles of Chancellorsville and Murfreesboro.
history: The government responded with repressive measures.
history: Precipitation is heaviest in the northern part of eastern Algeria, where it reaches as much as 1,000 mm (39.4 in) in some years.
history: In Genesis 3 Adam and Eve eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge and God condemns Adam to labour on the earth for his food and to return to it on his death.
history: Due to severe lack of infrastructure, many under-developed areas and small towns do not have restaurants and instead food stores may be the only source to obtain food products.
history: During those last five days, rioters looted the few remaining objects in the ruined buildings of the Christian quarters, including doors, wood, and marble pieces.
history: Poetry was by far the dominant stream.
history: Austria and Hungary signed separate armistices following the overthrow of the Habsburg monarchy.
history: In 1768 Russian-backed Ukrainian Haidamakas, pursuing Polish confederates, entered Balta, an Ottoman-controlled town on the border of Bessarabia in Ukraine, massacred its citizens, and burned the town to the ground.
history: 10,000,000,000,000 (ten trillion on the short scale; ten billion on the long scale; ten thousand billion; ten million million) is the natural number following 9,999,999,999,999 and preceding 10,000,000,000,001.
history: During the 1600s, the world conflict between the Ottoman Caliphate and Iberian Union was a stalemate since both were at similar population, technology and economic levels.
history: Although agriculture is the second-largest sector in the economy, Libya depends on imports in most foods.
history: Following the Berber revolt numerous independent states emerged across the Maghreb.
history: The weaving of such carpets originated in the nomadic cultures of central Asia (carpets being an easily transportable form of furnishing), and eventually spread to the settled societies of Anatolia.
history: Although 1 meets the naïve definition of a prime number, being evenly divisible only by 1 and itself (also 1), by modern convention it is regarded as neither a prime nor a composite number.
history: The tribe probably lived in the area surrounding or close to Beth-Shean, in Galilee (the stele in fact refers to battles that took place in the area).
history: In history,
 Army of 10,000 Mississippi American Civil War military unit, 1861–1862.
history: By 2 December deaths had fallen to 178 per week and the Common Council released an order that none of the houses where plague patients had been can be rented out.
history: Some ethnic groups continued to speak within their families and neighbourhoods (mahalles) with their own languages, though many non-Muslim minorities such as Greeks and Armenians only spoke Turkish.
history: The government of Turkey continues to deny the genocide to the present day, arguing that those who died were victims of inter-ethnic fighting, famine, or disease during World War I; these claims are rejected by most historians.
history: Their territory comprised Tripoli and its surroundings in present-day Libya.
history: Laws regarding personal status are derived from Islamic law as of 2011.
history: Educational and technological reforms came about, including the establishment of higher education institutions such as the Istanbul Technical University.
history: Policies developed by various sultans throughout the 19th century attempted to curtail the Ottoman slave trade but slavery had centuries of religious backing and sanction and so was never abolished in the Empire.
history: 10,000,000,000 (ten billion) is the natural number following 9,999,999,999 and preceding 10,000,000,001.
history: Later still, beginning in 1320, a Grand Vizier was appointed to assume certain of the sultan's responsibilities.
history: Mass: A million cubic millimetres (small droplets) of water would have a volume of one litre and a mass of one kilogram.
history: Despite his conviction that Germany must be defeated, Wilson went to war to ensure the US played a leading role in shaping the peace, which meant preserving the AEF as a separate military force, rather than being absorbed into British or French units as his Allies wanted.
history: About the same time the Porte also began to grant lands along the upper Euphrates valley to Ottoman officers and loyal Bedouin chieftains and in 1586 created the Rakka Eyalet all toward exerting greater control of the desert interior of the Levant.
history: Epidemic diseases and famine caused major disruption and demographic changes.
history: 1,350,125,107 = 675
1,382,958,545 : 15th Bell number.
history: One million cubic inches would be the volume of a small room 8+1⁄3 feet long by 8+1⁄3 feet wide by 8+1⁄3 feet high.
history: In all nations, the government's share of GDP increased, surpassing 50% in both Germany and France and nearly reaching that level in Britain.
history: During the epidemic, some who stole items from houses belonging to people who had died were also hanged.
history: However, it was one of the most significant offensives of the war, diverting German resources from Verdun, relieving Austro-Hungarian pressure on the Italians, and convincing Romania to enter the war on the side of the Allies on 27 August.
history: Protestors refused to recognise Tebboune as president, citing demands for comprehensive reform of the political system.
history: In 1943, Abbas issued the Manifesto of the Algerian People demanding autonomy.
history: You came to raid the grand vizier's office?", using "ill-mannered" profanities in his rage, after which Enver Bey saluted him and tried to explain his intentions.
history: Farther inland, the rainfall is less plentiful.
history: Infections became so widespread in countries that influences like the weather, stars, and mass poisoning were blamed by observers for the outbreaks, a reoccurring pattern in influenza epidemics that has contributed to the disease's name.
history: In June 1940, Italy entered World War II.
history: Much of Libya's income from oil, which soared in the 1970s, was spent on arms purchases and on sponsoring dozens of paramilitaries and terrorist groups around the world.
history: A 2nd-century BCE Jewish religious work, the Book of Jubilees, tells how Adam had a daughter, Awân, born after Cain and Abel, and another daughter, Azura, born after Seth, and they had nine other sons; Cain married Awân and Seth married Azûrâ, thus accounting for their descendants.
history: The Qurʾān and the Bible: Text and Commentary.
history: The Ottoman legal system accepted the religious law over its subjects.
history: At Uweinat, as of 2006 the last recorded rainfall was in September 1998.
history: Its economy relied heavily on privateering, slave-taking, ransom, tribute payments, agriculture, artisanal production, and trans-Saharan trade.
history: 1653)
November 6 – Maximilian of Liechtenstein, Austrian nobleman and Imperial General (d.
history: This circle was called ṣifr.
history: The Christians suffered between 40 and 900 casualties, while the Druze and their allies suffered between 100 and 1,500 casualties.
history: By the 1970s, the rest of Libyan Jews (some 7,000) were evacuated to Italy.
history: ISBN 0-299-08340-3.
history: I have striven to compose this book in its entirety as understandably as I could, dividing it into fifteen chapters.
history: US president Woodrow Wilson attempted to intervene as a peacemaker, asking for both sides to state their demands.
history: He quickly had 110 Druze men executed for their role in the riots.
history: Numerous acts of vandalism and destruction of heritage were carried out by suspected Islamist militias, including the removal of the Nude Gazelle Statue and the destruction and desecration of World War II–era British grave sites near Benghazi.
history: By spring 1915, they had also retreated from Galicia, and the May 1915 Gorlice–Tarnów offensive allowed the Central Powers to invade Russian-occupied Poland.
history: In 2016, Algeria had 0.53 global hectares of biocapacity per person within its territory, much less than the world average of 1.6 global hectares per person.
history: Following the collapse of the Almohad Empire, Yaghmurasen ibn Zayyan founded a Zanata Berber dynasty known as the Zayyanid or Abd al-Wadid dynasty, which ruled the central Maghrib from 1236 to 1550.
history: After the 1877–1878 Russo-Turkish War, the League was dissolved due to Austrian concerns over the expansion of Russian influence in the Balkans, an area they considered to be of vital strategic interest.
history: Although oil drastically improved the Libyan government's finances, popular resentment began to build over the increased concentration of the nation's wealth in the hands of King Idris and the national elite.
history: On 6 September 1558 the Governor of the Isle of Wight, Lord St.
history: The media of the Ottoman Empire was diverse, with newspapers and journals published in languages including French, Greek, and German.
history: Adam is the first human being aware of God, and features as such in various belief systems (including Judaism, Christianity, Gnosticism, Islam, and the Baháʼí Faith).
history: Dutch historian Petrus Forestus described an outbreak in Alkmaar where 2000 fell sick with flu and 200 perished in a span of three weeks.
history: The earliest belonged to Orhan Gazi.
history: Imad's men retreated to Ain Dara, where the Christians followed them before being defeated.
history: The only Christian-owned property untouched during the riots were in the caravanserais of the city's souks (market places).
history: For all positive real x, 0x = 0.
history: This process of legal modernisation began with the Edict of Gülhane of 1839.
history: The Druze fighters then began killing the Christians who had taken refuge there.
history: It was written in Turkish but with Armenian script.
history: This forced the Ottomans to take action in order to show the European powers that they were capable of protecting their own minorities.
history: French rule brought mass European settlement that displaced the local population; by mid-1870, indigenous Algerians declined by up to a third due to warfare, disease, and starvation.
history: For example, the elements of an array are numbered starting from 0 in C, so that for an array of n items the sequence of array indices runs from 0 to n−1.
history: By developing commercial centres and routes, encouraging people to extend the area of cultivated land in the country and international trade through its dominions, the state performed basic economic functions in the Empire.
history: On 12 February 1585 an imperial order issued to the beylerbey of Damascus, Uveys Pasha, reaffirmed that Qurqumaz was "a rebellious chieftain ...
history: Likewise, Ottoman Jews came under the authority of the Haham Başı, or Ottoman Chief Rabbi, while Armenians were under the authority of the chief bishop of the Armenian Apostolic Church.
history: The attempt was largely unsuccessful, and effectively failed.
history: 1656)
May 11 – Christian Günther I, Count of Schwarzburg-Sondershausen (1601–1642) (d.
history: 21 (3): 311–322.
history: No military action was taken and the Druze continued to defy the authorities and were reported by the government to have acquired further muskets in 1582.
history: The Liberty Memorial was dedicated on 1 November 1921.
history: Referred to as Nizamiye, this system was extended to the local magistrate level with the final promulgation of the Mecelle, a civil code that regulated marriage, divorce, alimony, will, and other matters of personal status.
history: One of the most prominent and popular Italian nationalist supporters of the war was Gabriele D'Annunzio, who promoted Italian irredentism and helped sway the Italian public to support intervention in the war.
history: Once the war began, Austrian, British, French, German, and Russian socialists followed the rising nationalist current by supporting their countries' intervention in the war.
history: When this is done, the empty set is the von Neumann cardinal assignment for a set with no elements, which is the empty set.
history: One is also a gender-neutral pronoun used to refer to an unspecified person or to people in general as in one should take care of oneself.
history: Jones promotes the theory of contagion in his Dyall of Auges, writing that "I myself was infected by reason that unawares I lodged with one who had it running from him." As London's death toll soared, fear of the plague became palpable in the Royal Court.
history: On the same day, the German Supreme Army Command informed Wilhelm II and the Imperial Chancellor Count Georg von Hertling, that the military situation facing Germany was hopeless.
history: Historians of the mid-20th century once characterised this period as one of stagnation and decline, but this view is now rejected by the majority of academics.
history: The sheer numbers of people dying from epidemics and famine in England caused economic inflation to flatten out.
history: It is a perfect power, harshad number, square number (1,000,0002), cube number (10,0003), tesseractic number (1,0004), and a 6-hypercube number (1006).
history: Service in the military is compulsory for men aged 19–30, for a total of 12 months.
history: Facing a revolution at home, Kaiser Wilhelm II abdicated on 9 November, and the war ended with the Armistice of 11 November 1918.
history: A Royal Entry to London, deferred from the July coronation, was held on 15 April 1604.
history: "The Junblats and the Janbulads: A Case of Mistaken Identity".
history: Following the terms of the 1916 Sykes–Picot Agreement, the British and French later partitioned the Middle East into mandate territories.
history: Crimean Tatar refugees in the late 19th century played an especially notable role in seeking to modernise Ottoman education and in first promoting both Pan-Turkism and a sense of Turkish nationalism.
history: The Sharifian Army, led by Hussein and the Hashemites, with military backing from the British Egyptian Expeditionary Force, successfully fought and expelled the Ottoman military presence from much of the Hejaz and Transjordan.
history: The CUP members in the Chamber condemned and censured this threat.
history: He reigned (1711–1745), as the first Karamanli ruler of Tripolitania.
history: France, led by Napoleon III, recalled its ancient role as protector of Christians in the Ottoman Empire which was established in a treaty in 1523.
history: He largely sourced this work to the archival documents of the British and French consuls in Ottoman Syria and contemporary or near-contemporary Arabic manuscripts.
history: He was instructed by the Porte to subdue the Druze of Mount Lebanon.
history: After gaining the support of Prince Sabahaddin, another opposition leader, the Savior Officers published public declarations in newspapers.
history: Their reconstructed texts talk about the creator deity El, who lived in a vineyard or garden together with his wife Asherah on Mount Ararat.
history: According to Yazidi tradition, Adam and Eve each placed their own "seed" in a jar, to determine who is the true origin of life; Eve's jar was corrupted while Adam's jar contained Shahid bin-Jarr, his son.
history: Istanbul was occupied by combined British, French, Italian, and Greek forces.
history: 1547)
April 14 – James Hepburn, 4th Earl of Bothwell, consort of Mary, Queen of Scots (b.
history: 3,735,929,054 = DEADC0DE16; used as a magic debug value in programming.
history: As noted in the Xiahou Yang Suanjing (425–468 AD), to multiply or divide a number by 10, 100, 1000, or 10000, all one needs to do, with rods on the counting board, is to move them forwards, or back, by 1, 2, 3, or 4 places.
history: Some of them asked themselves, "How can not being be?", leading to philosophical and, by the medieval period, religious arguments about the nature and existence of zero and the vacuum.
history: The plague spread to other family members in Żabbar, and physicians were informed of the possibility of a contagious disease.
history: On 7 July 2012, Libyans voted in parliamentary elections, the first free elections in almost 40 years.
history: He is also among the seven prophets who appeared in different periods of history according to the Druze faith.
history: Medical historians like Thomas Short, Lazare Rivière and Charles Creighton gathered descriptions of catarrhal fevers recognized as influenza by modern physicians attacking populations with the greatest intensity between 1557 and 1559.
history: In March 1604, the plague was said to be "stayed in the city and suburbs", and people now came to London  "without fear or hurt".
history: On 25 August 2012, in what Reuters reported as "the most blatant sectarian attack" since the end of the civil war, unnamed organised assailants bulldozed a Sufi mosque with graves in the centre of the Libyan capital Tripoli.
history: On 31 July, Britain sent notes to Germany and France, asking them to respect Belgian neutrality; France pledged to do so, but Germany did not reply.
history: Upon entering the Pacific Ocean, the fleet encounters violent storms.
history: Many of the militias were disciplined, but the most powerful of them answered only to the executive councils of various Libyan cities.
history: Although the mob targeted several different areas at the same, in general, the first homes to be targeted were those of the wealthier Christians, followed by the neighboring Christian homes.
history: In addition, 2,500 men manned the pirate fleet of Tripoli, 3,000 in Tunis, and several thousand more in the various minor pirate bases such as Bona, Susa, Bizerta, and Salé.
history: About 40–50 men survived after managing to escape.
history: The Babylonian cuneiform script notation for numbers used the same symbol for 1 and 60 as in the Sumerian system.
history: The Ottomans sent Fuad Pasha to the region in order to restore order and fend off the European powers.
history: An important consequence of the French expedition was the establishment of the autonomy of the Mount Lebanon Mutasarrifate from Ottoman Syria, with the nomination by the Sultan of an Armenian Christian governor from Constantinople, Daud Pasha, on 9 June 1861.
history: In 2008, 11.2 million Algerians could read and write in French.
history: Bendjedid resigned and a High Council of State was installed to act as the Presidency.
history: The control over the country is currently split between the House of Representatives (HoR) in Tobruk and the Government of National Unity (GNU) in Tripoli and their respective supporters, as well as various jihadist groups and tribal elements controlling different parts of the country.
history: This was known as the Al-Jawazi massacre.
history: a great catastrophe that could strike a city."
The plague remained endemic in London with outbreaks of varying virulence returning in the years that followed.
history: Some images do not include Abraham and Sarah, like Andrei Rublev's Trinity, which shows only the three visitors as beardless youths at a table.
history: These pressures led to a series of crises around the year 1600, placing great strain upon the Ottoman system of government.
history: Selim I established Ottoman rule in Egypt by defeating and annexing the Mamluk Sultanate of Egypt and created a naval presence on the Red Sea.
history: However, this attempt was rejected out of hand as a "duplicitous war ruse".
history: The floods were the worst natural disaster in Libya's modern history.
history: By January 1913, the CUP was thoroughly frustrated with Kâmil Pasha.
history: The name is based on the ethnonym Libu (Ancient Greek: Λίβυες Líbyes, Latin: Libyes).
history: Six famines hit Egypt alone between 1687 and 1731 and the last famine to hit Anatolia was four decades later.
history: Westminster John Knox.
history: In May 1919, Greece also took control of the area around Smyrna (now İzmir).
history: The million is sometimes used in the English language as a metaphor for a very large number, as in "Not in a million years" and "You're one in a million", or a hyperbole, as in "I've walked a million miles" and "You've asked a million-dollar question".
history: LBW appears as an ethnic name on the Merneptah Stele to designate Libyans.
history: Algeria has given the Muslim world a number of prominent thinkers, including Emir Abdelkader, Abdelhamid Ben Badis, Mouloud Kacem Naît Belkacem, Malek Bennabi and Mohamed Arkoun.
history: This has origins in capitulations of the Ottoman Empire, dating back to the first commercial treaties signed with France in 1536 and taken further with capitulations in 1673 and 1740, which lowered duties to 3% for imports and exports.
history: The war uprooted more than 2 million Algerians.
history: Religious officials formed the Ulama, who had control of religious teachings and theology, and also the Empire's judicial system, giving them a major voice in day-to-day affairs in communities across the Empire (but not including the non-Muslim millets).
history: There are numerous copper plate inscriptions with the same small o in them, some of them possibly dated to the 6th century, but their date or authenticity may be open to doubt.
history: Muhammad Ali had close relations with France, and the prospect of him becoming the Sultan of Egypt was widely viewed as putting the entire Levant into the French sphere of influence.
history: 2,219,006,624 = 745
2,222,222,222 : repdigit
2,276,423,485 : number of ways to partition {1,2,...,12} and then partition each cell (block) into subcells.
history: In an attempt to clarify the division of judicial competences, an administrative council laid down that religious matters were to be handled by religious courts, and statute matters were to be handled by the Nizamiye courts.
history: The attack was unsuccessful, and the Druze succeeded in withstanding the pressure until July 17, when Egyptian reinforcements crushed them at Shebaa.
history: While coastal areas saw grand Roman construction, much of the interior was turned into grain-exporting latifundia, pushing Berbers into the hinterland where they retribalized and resisted for generations.
history: The name derives from a generalised identity given to a large confederacy of ancient east "Libyan" Berbers, North African people(s) and tribes who lived around the lush regions of Cyrenaica and Marmarica.
history: Kitson discovered important new deposits of manganese, used in munitions production, in the Gold Coast.
history: Mohamed Al Genedal.
history: Searching for the World's First Zero
A History of Zero
Zero Saga
The History of Algebra
Edsger W.
history: Apart from the 122 private schools, the Universities of the State are free of charge.
history: In 1934, Italy combined Cyrenaica, Tripolitania and Fezzan and adopted the name "Libya" (used by the Ancient Greeks for all of North Africa except Egypt) for the unified colony, with Tripoli as its capital.
history: In 1571, the Crimean khan Devlet I Giray, commanded by the Ottomans, invaded Russia and burned Moscow.
history: During the Iron Age and Classical antiquity, Libya (from Greek Λιβύη: Libyē, which came from Berber: Libu) referred to the area of North Africa directly west of the Nile River (modern-day Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, and Morocco).
history: JSTOR 164441.
history: While en route to Malta, an outbreak of the plague began on board the ships, killing 20 crew members.
history: The digit plays the same role in decimal fractions and in the decimal representation of other real numbers (indicating whether any tenths, hundredths, thousandths, etc., are present) and in bases other than 10 (for example, in binary, where it indicates which powers of 2 are omitted).
history: This life, richly depicted in the Tassili n'Ajjer paintings, predominated in Algeria until the classical period.
history: This marked the beginning of the Zirid Dynasty (362–543 AH / 973–1152 CE), which ruled from Achir then al-Mansuriyya near Kairouan.
history: On 14 June, it was concluded that there were enough medical supplies on Malta, and the restrictions placed on certain areas of Valletta were lifted two days later.
history: The Legends of the Jews: From the Creation to Exodus: Notes for Volumes 1 and 2.
history: One of these, in the region of Bithynia on the frontier of the Byzantine Empire, was led by the Turkish tribal leader Osman I (d.
history: The Ten Thousand: A Novel of Ancient Greece by Michael Curtis Ford.
history: Are we not descendants of the glorious king Philip, of Alexander the Great and of Emperor Basil?
history: George Segal created figural sculptures by molding plastered gauze strips over live models in his 1987 work Abraham's Farewell to Ishmael.
history: The Ottomans and Germans were aided by Kurdish and Azeri forces, together with a large number of major Iranian tribes, while the Russians and British had the support of Armenian and Assyrian forces.
history: It was catarrh, marked by fever of the double tertian type, with such pernicious symptoms that many died." The season's poor harvests and hunger in the Spanish population, as well as negligent medical care, likely contributed to the severity of the influenza pandemic in Spain.
history: The territory of modern Libya had separate histories until Roman times, as Tripoli and Cyrenaica.
history: This soul would have been transferred by Sophia (wisdom) onto the creator (Demiurge) of the material world, who in turn is tricked into blowing the soul into a body.
history: The first cases of influenza began to appear in Sicily around July after the arrival of infected merchant ships from Malta.
history: The influx of refugees and peasants caused overcrowding in the city, particularly in the Christian quarter, which had a demoralizing effect on the Damascene Christians.
history: 1639)
July 31 – Countess Catharina Belgica of Nassau, regent of Hanau-Münzenberg (d.
history: According to a revelation received by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founder of the community, the Adam mentioned in the Qur'an was born 4,598 years before Muhammad.
history: Imad disguised his contingent as Christians by adorning them with crosses and Christian flags taken from slain Christian fighters in previous battles.
history: He is regarded as the common forefather of both the Arab people through his son Ishmael and the Jewish people through his son Isaac.
history: Oqba ibn Nafi played a central role: in 670, he founded the city of Kairouan, which became a major Islamic base and cultural centre.
history: From 1927 to 1934, the territory was split into two colonies, Italian Cyrenaica and Italian Tripolitania, run by Italian governors.
history: 1637)
July 21 – Philipp Hainhofer, German merchant, banker, diplomat and art collector (d.
history: The Order's archives record only 8,726 deaths, while other sources give the death toll as 8,732 or estimate it to have been between 11,000 and 12,000.
history: The main roads were cut by the Druze, disrupting the Egyptian army supplies.
history: A ten sided polygon is called a decagon.
history: The Ottoman Empire and its vassal, the Crimean Khanate, continued to invade Eastern Europe in a series of slave raids, and remained a significant power in Eastern Europe until the end of the 17th century.
history: Cyrenaica, by contrast, was Greek before it was Roman.
history: Two years after independence, on 28 March 1953, Libya joined the Arab League.
history: British medical historian Thomas Short wrote that "At Mantua Carpentaria, three miles outside of Madrid, the first cases were reported...There it began with a roughness of the jaws, small cough, then a strong fever with a pain in the head, back, and legs.
history: 10 physicians, 16 surgeons and over 1000 hospital attendants also died in the plague.
history: The Paris Peace Conference imposed a series of peace treaties on the Central Powers officially ending the war.
history: The ensuing civil war lasted from 1402 to 1413 as Bayezid's sons fought over succession.
history: Elizabeth began coordinating a government response to the epidemic by communicating orders to her people through the Church.
history: This was a religious revival adapted to desert life.
history: The Queen moved the Royal Court to Windsor Castle and erected a gallows in the town square, threatening to hang anyone who followed them from London.
history: The first invasion (647–648), led by Abdallah ibn Saad under Caliph Uthman, targeted the Exarchate of Carthage.
history: Major battles, including those at Verdun, the Somme, and Passchendaele, failed to break the stalemate on the Western Front.
history: The Ottoman Empire was first subdivided into provinces, in the sense of fixed territorial units with governors appointed by the sultan, in the late 14th century.
history: For this reason, systems that include strings with both letters and numbers (such as postcodes in the UK) may exclude the use of the letter O.
history: Adults with pertussis will usually cough for weeks before becoming gradually more ill then recovering over a period of months.
history: Earlier, a parliamentary commission said it would be "impossible" to hold the election on 24 December 2021.
history: American forces were in the forefront of NATO operations against Libya.
history: The 1655 Malta plague outbreak was a minor outbreak of plague (Maltese: pesta) on the island of Malta, then ruled by the Order of St John.
history: This resulted in the arrest and executions of the coup plotters.
history: On land, Ahmed expanded Tripolitania's control as far as Fezzan and Cyrenaica before his 1745 death.
history: The 1908–1909 Bosnian Crisis began when Austria annexed the former Ottoman territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which it had occupied since 1878.
history: About 109 decades ago, the thin disk of the Milky Way started to form.
history: AltaMira Press.
history: As the base of the decimal numeral system, powers of ten are used to express orders of magnitude and form the basis of common scientific notation.
history: The total area of Libya is estimated at 1,760,000 km2.
history: Baptism rates in native communities were deeply connected with outbreaks of disease, and missionary policies of conducting religious activities while sick likely helped spread the flu.
history: Aid for the refugees was insufficient and most did not have shelter, sleeping in alleys between the churches and in stables.
history: Abu Mohammad Jawad Walieddine (Arabic: الشيخ أبو محمد جواد ولي الدين; 1916 – April 27, 2012) was a Lebanese religious leader and the supreme spiritual authority (Marja) of the Druze community in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, and Israel from 1988 until his death in 2012.
history: Once Abram received this news, he immediately assembled 318 trained servants.
history: High hydrocarbon prices have improved the current account and the already large international reserves position.
history: Around 168 BC or 164 BC, he won a gold medal for his people in Numidia at the Athens Hippodrome at the Panathenaic Games in the prestigious horse-drawn chariot racing event.
history: 1,406,818,759 : 30th Wedderburn–Etherington number.
history: By 2 March, there were 100 deaths.
history: land: 1,759,540 km².
history: Subsequently, Shibli moved to southern Wadi al-Taym, where he was attacked by the Christian fighters of Emir Bashir, led by his son Emir Khalil.
history: The head of state is the President of Algeria, who is elected for a five-year term.
history: Political and military power in Algeria was largely controlled by the Turks, while Algerian locals mainly served as taxpayers, soldiers, merchants and religious officials.
history: Battles can be planned, encountered or forced by one side when the other is unable to withdraw from combat.
history: About 88% of the population is urban, mostly concentrated in the three largest cities, Tripoli, Benghazi and Misrata.
history: In David Noel Freedman (ed.).
history: God then places this first man in the Garden of Eden, telling him that "Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat: But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die" (Genesis 2:16–17).
history: In the BC calendar era, the year 1 BC is the first year before AD 1; there is not a year zero.
history: While the exact number of deaths is unknown, the International Association of Genocide Scholars estimates around 1.5 million.
history: ISSN 0020-8728.
history: As the Ottoman state attempted to modernise its infrastructure and army in response to outside threats, it opened itself up to a different kind of threat: that of creditors.
history: It is also the first pandemic where influenza is pathologically linked to miscarriages, given its first English names, and is reliably recorded as having spread globally.
history: His story is read in the weekly Torah reading portions, predominantly in the parashot: Lech-Lecha (לֶךְ-לְךָ), Vayeira (וַיֵּרָא), Chayei Sarah (חַיֵּי שָׂרָה), and Toledot (תּוֹלְדֹת).
history: The government bag began providing inducements for absentee landlords to encourage productive land use and initiated agricultural wage policies.
history: Many battles of the Western Front in the First World War were intentionally (Verdun) or unintentionally (Somme) attrition battles.
history: In November, London's College of Physicians convened a meeting to discuss the "insolent and illicit practice" of London's unlicensed medical physicians with the intention to "summon them all" before the college for quackery.
history: Germany lost 15.1% of its active male population, Austria-Hungary lost 17.1%, and France lost 10.5%.
history: For example, a Boolean variable stores a value that is either true or false, and 0 is often the numerical representation of false.
history: Beginning in the early 19th century, society, government, and religion were interrelated in a complex, overlapping way that was deemed inefficient by Atatürk, who systematically dismantled it after 1922.
history: In finance, on March 29, 1999, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 10006.78, which was the first time the index closed above the 10,000 mark.
history: This strict quarantine may have had an immediate effect, with plague deaths the next week dropping over 30% to 1,262 for the week ending 8 October.
history: After Germany expanded its standing army by 170,000 troops in 1913, France extended compulsory military service from two to three years, sparking similar measures from the Balkan powers, Italy, the Ottoman Empire and Austria-Hungary.
history: The letter addressed to the sultan read:
history: Several socialist parties initially supported the war when it began in August 1914.
history: The epidemics of fevers and respiratory illness eventually became referred to as the new sickness in England, new acquaintance in Scotland, and coqueluche or simply catarrh by medical historians in the rest of Europe.
history: The Empire was now a major part of European politics.
history: However, not all cities used Turkish as a lingua franca.
history: Since the Germans were normally able to choose where to stand, they generally held the high ground, while their trenches tended to be better built; those constructed by the French and English were initially considered "temporary", only needed until an offensive would destroy the German defences.
history: The German army was the first to successfully deploy chemical weapons during the Second Battle of Ypres (April–May 1915), after German scientists under the direction of Fritz Haber at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute developed a method to weaponise chlorine.
history: Tuareg music and dance are popular in Ghadames and the south.
history: Since the Second World War, land or sea battles have come to rely on air support.
history: PMC 4154910.
history: In 1984, Libya imported over 2 million mt of cereals (up from 612,000 mt in 1974).
history: However, the nation ranked as the 21st highest emitter per capita globally and the highest in Africa, at just over 13 tonnes per person.
history: He instructed her to return to Abram's camp and that her son would be "a wild ass of a man; his hand shall be against every man, and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the face of all his brethren." She was told to call her son Ishmael.
history: Britain sent Germany an ultimatum demanding they withdraw from Belgium; when this expired at midnight, without a response, the two empires were at war.
history: For his obedience he received another promise of numerous descendants and abundant prosperity.
history: Some war memorials date the end of the war as being when the Versailles Treaty was signed in 1919, which was when many of the troops serving abroad finally returned home; by contrast, most commemorations of the war's end concentrate on the armistice of 11 November 1918.
history: Turkic peoples practiced a form of shamanism before adopting Islam.
history: Giving incentives and rewarding best performers, as well as offering funds in a faster and more flexible manner, are the two main principles underlying the European Neighbourhood Instrument (ENI) that came into force in 2014.
history: The climate is mostly extremely dry and desertlike in nature.
history: When Caliph Harun al-Rashid appointed Ibrahim ibn al-Aghlab as his governor of Ifriqiya in 800, Libya enjoyed considerable local autonomy under the Aghlabid dynasty.
history: Queen Elizabeth I had ruled for 34 years and her government struggled with London's quickly growing population.
history: The sixth cholera pandemic (1899–1923) was a major outbreak of cholera beginning in India, where it killed more than 800,000 people, and spreading to West Asia, North Africa, Eastern Europe, and Russia.
history: Fawaz asserts that the Damascene Muslims' rejoicing at the fall of Zahle stemmed from what they believed was the end of Zahle's threats to the interests of Damascene grain and livestock merchants.
history: Although the government supported Arab causes, including the Moroccan and Algerian independence movements, it took little active part in the Arab–Israeli conflict or the tumultuous inter-Arab politics of the 1950s and early 1960s.
history: Ruling over so many peoples, the empire granted varying levels of autonomy to its many confessional communities, or millets, to manage their own affairs per Islamic law.
history: In their consistent efforts to counter their incorporation into the administrative and fiscal system, the Druze benefited from a rugged terrain, possession of firearms and sectarian and tribal cohesion, making it difficult to impose government authority in the Druze areas.
history: The earliest known name of such a tribe was the Garamantes, based in Germa.
history: Terrain may have lost importance in modern warfare, due to the advent of aircraft, though the terrain is still vital for camouflage, especially for guerrilla warfare.
history: When the French invaded, local tribes rallied to support the Ottomans despite their resistance to the Regency.
history: Though Tripoli continued to pay nominal tribute to the Ottoman padishah, it acted otherwise as an independent kingdom.
history: 66,330 primes between 3,000,000 and 4,000,000.
history: In 1551, Turgut Reis enslaved almost the entire population of the Maltese island of Gozo, some 5,000 people, sending them to Libya.
history: The most common practice throughout human history has been to start counting at one, and this is the practice in early classic programming languages such as Fortran and COBOL.
history: Economic and political migrations made an impact across the empire.
history: Abortion in Libya is illegal except to preserve the life of the mother.
history: On 28 May, the Greeks repulsed the initial Ottoman offensive at Houn Havral but were forced to accept foreign diplomatic intervention after being overwhelmed by the numerical superiority of the Ottoman army.
history: Active denial of war guilt in Germany and German resentment at both reparations and continued Allied occupation of the Rhineland made widespread revision of the meaning and memory of the war problematic.
history: Small numbers of Ibadi Muslims live in the country.
history: After the Young Turk Revolution of 1908, the Ottoman state became a constitutional monarchy.
history: The Battle of the Somme was an Anglo-French offensive from July to November 1916.
history: This representation underlies the tetractys, a triangular figure of ten points important in Pythagoreanism.
history: The U-boats sunk more than 5,000 Allied ships, at the cost of 199 submarines.
history: It is commonly abbreviated:
history: Archaic Sumerian numerals for 1 and 60 both consisted of horizontal semi-circular symbols,  by c.
history: Language was not an obvious sign of group connection and identity in the 16th century among the rulers of the Ottoman Empire, Safavid Iran and Abu'l-Khayrid Shibanids of Central Asia.
history: In April 1917, the US Army had fewer than 300,000 men, including National Guard units, compared to British and French armies of 4.1 and 8.3 million respectively.
history: The Ottoman Empire conquered the Levant from the Mamluks following the Battle of Marj Dabiq near Aleppo in 1516.
history: Scientists have estimated that the number of fish in the ocean is around 3.5 trillion.
history: 1,003,003,001 = 10013.
history: 10,000,000 (ten million) is the natural number following 9,999,999 and preceding 10,000,001.
history: Almost all of this population left during the war of independence or immediately after its end.
history: When King James was at Woodstock Palace in September 1603, Spanish and Flemish diplomats lodged at Jesus College, Oxford.
history: Poor security meant German intelligence was well informed on tactics and timetables, but despite this, when the attack began on 16 April the French made substantial gains, before being brought to a halt by the newly built and extremely strong defences of the Hindenburg Line.
history: Sin, for Paul, was a power to which all humans are subject, but Christ's coming held out the means by which the righteous would be restored to the Paradise from which Adam's sin had banished mankind.
history: 1561)
October 1 – Don John of Austria, military leader (b.
history: 2 (1): 51–55.
history: However, Christianity rapidly declined among Berbers after being associated with Roman exploitation, especially following the suppression of the Donatist movement.
history: Because of the losses experienced by the army so far in the war, the Kâmil Pasha government was inclined to accept the "Midye-Enez Line" as a border to the west and, while not outright giving Edirne to Bulgaria, favored transferring control of it to an international commission.
history: Following a coup d'état led by Muammar Gaddafi in 1969, the name of the state was changed to the Libyan Arab Republic (الجمهورية العربية الليبية al-Jumhūriyyah al-'Arabiyyah al-Lībiyyah).
history: Contemporary physicians to the 1557 flu, like Ingrassia, Valleriola, Dodoens, and Mercado, described symptoms like severe coughing, fever, myalgia, and pneumonia that all occurred within a short period of time and led to death in days if a case was to be fatal.
history: The Allies sought guarantees that would prevent or limit future wars.
history: Some of the first clashes of the war involved British, French, and German colonial forces in Africa.
history: More resourceful, upper-class individuals continued fleeing during 1593 as the government's countermeasures proved ineffective due to the disease-harboring conditions in some areas of London.
history: In his studies and teachings in Damascus, Rafeq became one of the first historians of the period to make use of the sijillat (records) of the local sharia courts and waqfs (endowments or trusts), as well as the fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence) books and fatwa collections of Ottoman-era Syria.
history: Today, the word is still used formally as a social title for men, similar to the way the titles "sir" and "mister" are used in the English language.
history: The most commonly seen animals include the wild boars, jackals, and gazelles, although it is not uncommon to spot fennecs (foxes), and jerboas.
history: French lawyer Étienne Pasquier wrote that the disease began with a severe pain in the head and a 12- to 15-hour fever while sufferers' noses "ran like a fountain." Paris saw its judiciary disrupted when the Paris Law Court suspended its meetings to slow the spread of flu.
history: 12285 = amicable number with 14595
12287 = Thabit number
12288 = 3-smooth number (212×3).
history: The Ministry of Youth and Sports in Algeria manages sport-related activities.
history: Despite the growing European presence in the Indian Ocean, Ottoman trade with the east continued to flourish.
history: Ibn Khaldun and Herodotus distinguish the Libyans on the basis of their lifestyles rather than ethnic background, those practicing agriculture, and the others nomadic pastoralism.
history: In the US, the Espionage Act of 1917 and Sedition Act of 1918 made it a federal crime to oppose military recruitment or make any statements deemed "disloyal".
history: A large number of Libyan television stations are devoted to political review, Islamic topics and cultural phenomena.
history: The Great Karnak Inscription reads:
history: That set the stage for a slow process of modernisation of government functions, as the government sought, with mixed success, to adopt the main elements of Western bureaucracy and military technology.
history: The ruling classes of the region resented Egyptian authority and the Druze in particular resisted the rule of Ibrahim Pasha, who personally considered the Druze as heretics and oppressed them.
history: The Russians were especially targeted likely due to resentment against them stemming from the Crimean War between Russia and the Ottomans four years before.
history: Most of the cadets were teenagers and none of them were armed.
history: Translated by Henrietta Szold.
history: On 19 October 1676, Cotoner appointed Giuseppe Zammit as lettore in anatomy and surgery at the Sacra Infermeria.
history: Meanwhile, Druze fighters from Moukhtara, Baakline, Ain al-Tineh, Arqub district, Manasif district, Boutmeh, Jdaideh, Shahahir, and Ammatour were streaming into Deir al-Qamar from several directions.
history: 74 members of the LPDF cast ballots for four-member slates, which would fill positions including prime minister and the head of the Presidential Council.
history: Abram, the birth name of Abraham, is also the name of Dylan's father.
history: His dismissal in 1890 led to a change in policy and the start of an Anglo-German naval arms race.
history: As of March 2024, Libya was actively promoting business development and encouraging both domestic and foreign investment.
history: ISBN 9781139486811.
history: Analog genres did exist, though, in both Turkish folk literature and in Divan poetry.
history: The flu also reached South America.
history: Philo of Alexandria (20 BC – AD 50) regarded the number one as God's number, and the basis for all numbers.
history: It is also even, composite, abundant, polite, practical, frugal, and regular.
history: In the Treaty of Versailles, this statement was Article 231.
history: Another popular way to serve Asida is with rub (fresh date syrup) and olive oil.
history: Where the duration of the battle is longer than a week, it is often for reasons of planning called an operation.
history: Tebboune is accused of being close to the military and being loyal to the deposed president.
history: However, he relied much more on the army for his support, and reduced the sole legal party to a symbolic role.
history: the Middle Persian title bag (also baγ or βaγ, Old Iranian baga; cf.
history: In Bunge, Marcia J.
history: As a result, flu would have quickly spread through Portuguese colonies due to mandatory church attendance.
history: At the lower echelons, French troop commanders acted in both military and civil capacities according to customary French practice in the Algerian Sahara.
history: Sultan Mahmud II crushed the revolt, executed the leaders and disbanded the large organisation.
history: Sifr evolved to mean zero when it was used to translate śūnya (Sanskrit: शून्य) from India.
history: Some sources state that plague was introduced in Malta in about 1575, but there are records of outbreaks of the disease in Malta before the arrival of the Order.
history: The International Monetary Fund estimated Libya's real GDP growth at 122% in 2012 and 16.7% in 2013, after a 60% plunge in 2011.
history: This act drastically altered the fabric of the Libyan countryside, and cemented the cultural and linguistic Arabisation of the region.
history: Even a man of peace such as [Gustav] Stresemann publicly rejected German guilt.
history: Snakes, monitor lizards, and numerous other reptiles can be found living among an array of rodents throughout the semi arid regions of Algeria.
history: An outbreak of cholera in New York City from 1910 to 1911 is thought to be part of the pandemic,  having spread through infected people aboard the steamship Moltke which was transporting passengers from Naples.
history: ISSN 0044-8699.
history: He died at age 175, and was buried in the cave of Machpelah by his sons Isaac and Ishmael.
history: ISBN 978-1-4473-4043-0.
history: In 1970, a law was introduced affirming equality of the sexes and wage parity.
history: By October 2012, the average oil production has surpassed 1.4 million bpd.
history: The pre-1914 Italian army was short of officers, trained men, adequate transport and modern weapons; by April 1915, some of these deficiencies had been remedied but it was still unprepared for the major offensive required by the Treaty of London.
history: The European consuls also tasked Yorgaki, the vice-consul of Greece and a Turkish-speaker, with conveying their concerns to him about the danger posed to Christians amid the hostile environment in the city.
history: Also in set theory, 0 is the lowest ordinal number, corresponding to the empty set viewed as a well-ordered set.
history: Various Berber languages are also spoken, including Tamasheq, Ghadamis, Nafusi, Suknah and Awjilah.
history: While religious minorities were never equal under the law, they were granted recognition, protection, and limited freedoms under both Islamic and Ottoman tradition.
history: An outbreak at Newcastle in 1589 killed 1727 residents by January 1590, while from 1590 to 1592 Plymouth and Devon were affected with 997 plague deaths at Totnes and Tiverton.
history: The royal family and court moved to Hampshire, in the belief that the area were more healthy.
history: Until the 19th century the majority of battles were of short duration, many lasting a part of a day.
history: doi:10.1177/0020872811421619.
history: There were many tribes in ancient Libya, including the now extinct Psylli, with the Libu being the most prominent.
history: Bey is also used colloquially in Urdu-speaking parts of India, and its usage is similar to "chap" or "man".
history: The Austro-Hungarian provinces of Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia provided troops for Austria-Hungary.
history: Specific land codes (1858), civil codes (1869–1876), and a code of civil procedure also were enacted.
history: The Battle of Jutland in May/June 1916 was the only full-scale clash of battleships during the war, and one of the largest in history.
history: This was necessary so that the Europeans would not use this insurrection as a way to enlarge their power within the Ottoman Empire.
history: Algeria also has a small African leopard and Saharan cheetah population, but these are seldom seen.
history: New waves of "agues" and fevers were recorded in England into 1559.
history: covenant theology).
history: An unexpected consequence of the riots was the increase in historical documentation about Damascus and the violence.
history: Many APIs and operating systems that require applications to return an integer value as an exit status typically use zero to indicate success and non-zero values to indicate specific error or warning conditions.
history: Salt affected soils are spread in the coastal area as Salic Haplocambids, Typic Aquisalids, Typic Haplosalids, Typic Haplocalcids, Lithic Haplocalcids, and Typical Torriorthents.
history: From 1948 to 1951, 30,972 Libyan Jews moved to Israel.
history: By the end of 1917, however, the major armies had modernised and were making use of telephone, wireless communication, armoured cars, tanks (especially with the advent of the prototype tank, Little Willie), and aircraft.
history: The French forces occupied the area that was the former Italian Territorio Sahara Libico and made several requests to administratively annex Fezzan to the French colonial Empire.
history: These representations include the signed magnitude and ones' complement binary integer representations (but not the two's complement binary form used in most modern computers), and most floating-point number representations (such as IEEE 754 and IBM S/360 floating-point formats).
history: Deir al-Qamar had already been captured by Druze forces and its residents had consistently appealed for protection from their friends among the local Druze and from the Ottoman authorities.
history: The Regency became one of the major naval powers of the Mediterranean during the 16th and 17th centuries.
history: The highpoint of the Sanusi influence came in the 1880s under the Grand Senussi's son, Muhammad al-Mahdi al-Sanusi.
history: The same principle applies in place-value notations that uses a base other than ten, such as binary and hexadecimal.
history: 18:32) had been found, as "the smoke of the land went up as the smoke of a furnace."
history: These included Eugene Debs in the US and Bertrand Russell in Britain.
history: With the Empire's population reaching 30 million people by 1600, the shortage of land placed further pressure on the government.
history: The Ottoman Empire, historically also known as the Turkish Empire or Turkey, was a state that spanned much of Southeastern Europe, West Asia, and North Africa from the 14th century to the early 20th century, centred in modern-day Turkey.
history: Germany and Russia were similarly affected.
history: Diplomatic History.
history: In 1986 a fishing port was constructed at Zuwara, and ice plants were built at several coastal sites.
history: By the fifth century BC, Berbers in what is now Algeria had developed mixed farming and pastoral economies, advanced manufacturing, trade and political organisation supported several states.
history: April 27 – The Duel of the Mignons claims the lives of two favorites of Henry III of France, and two favourites of Henry I, Duke of Guise.
history: When this was granted, many others followed and the Imperial army disintegrated, the Italians taking over 300,000 prisoners.
history: Haran died there while Terah was still alive.
history: This circular system collapsed in 1931 and some loans were never repaid.
history: The Ottoman Aviation Squadrons fought on many fronts during World War I, from Galicia in the west to the Caucasus in the east and Yemen in the south.
history: The result was that even countries which benefited from the Balkan Wars, such as Serbia and Greece, felt cheated of their "rightful gains", while for Austria it demonstrated the apparent indifference with which other powers viewed their concerns, including Germany.
history: Maritime claims:
territorial sea: 12 nm
note: Gulf of Sidra closing line - 32 degrees, 30 minutes north
exclusive fishing zone: 62 nautical miles (115 km)
Climate: Mediterranean along coast; dry, extreme desert interior.
history: André de Burgo's letters dated 24 August 1510 indicate Margaret of Austria had to intervene at a royal assembly between her father, Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I, and Louis XII of France because the King of France was too sick with "coqueluche" to be spoken to.
history: Horon also spreads around a poisonous fog, Adam is sent from the mountain to restore life on earth, Horon takes the shape of a large serpent and bites him, which leads to Adam and his wife losing their immortality.
history: As a kingdom, Libya maintained a definitively pro-Western stance and was recognised as belonging to the conservative traditionalist bloc in the League of Arab States (the present-day Arab League), of which it became a member in 1953.
history: In 1711, Ahmed Karamanli, an Ottoman cavalry officer and son of a Turkish officer and Libyan woman, seized power and founded the Karamanli dynasty, which would last 124 years.
history: Conversely, the Arabs adopted the name as a singular form, adding an "h" for the plural form in Arabic.
history: The Algerian national oil company is Sonatrach, which plays a key role in all aspects of the oil and natural gas sectors in Algeria.
history: The first time is on 9 October (for those churches which follow the traditional Julian Calendar, 9 October falls on 22 October of the modern Gregorian Calendar), where he is commemorated together with his nephew "Righteous Lot".
history: In turn, the Druze lords, who had been hesitant to confront the growing assertiveness of the Maronite peasantry due to the numerical imbalance in the Maronites' favour, began to arm Druze irregulars.
history: The new nation faced enormous challenges in rebuilding a dislocated economy and forging a coherent national identity.
history: The revolt was suppressed with a bitter campaign by Ibrahim Pasha, after a major Druze defeat in the Wadi al-Taym, and the Egyptian rule effectively restored in Galilee and Mount Lebanon with a peace agreement signed between the Egyptians and Druze leaders on 23 July 1838.
history: On 19 June he began efforts to set up the defense of the Christian quarter in case of attack, but while he attempted to secretly prepare the defenses, local residents were likely aware of his activities.
history: In the Middle East, Arab nationalism soared in Ottoman territories in response to the rise of Turkish nationalism during the war.
history: It is then said to have a null value.
history: Days of Glory (2006) and Outside the Law (2010) recorded the highest number of admissions in the European Union, 3,172,612 and 474,722, respectively.
history: Italian physician Francisco Vallerioli, known as François Valleriola, was a witness to the epidemic in France and described the 1557 flu's symptoms as featuring a fever, severe headache, intense coughing, shortness of breath, chills, hoarseness, and expulsion of phlegm after 7 to 14 days.
history: It can be also written in tetration notation as 210.
history: Total military personnel include 147,000 active, 150,000 reserve, and 187,000 paramilitary staff (2008 estimate).
history: In practice, authority often rested with the Odjak (the janissary corps) and the ta'ifa of corsair captains, while the dey ruled through negotiation with military elites.
history: Congress had not yet decided whether the members of the body would be elected or appointed.
history: After the failure of this expedition, the CUP's leaders, Enver, Cemal, and Talaat, were involved in ordering the deportations and massacres of 1 and 1.5 million Armenians in 1915–1916 in what became known as the Armenian genocide.
history: The word is derived from the early Italian millione (milione in modern Italian), from mille, "thousand", plus the augmentative suffix -one.
history: Sarsa Dengel, Emperor of Ethiopia, defeats and kills Bahr negus Yeshaq along with his Ottoman allies, finally ending his rebellion.
history: In 2016, an announcement from the company said the company aims 900,000 barrel per day in the next year.
history: The President is the head of the army, the Council of Ministers and the High Security Council.
history: Artillery also underwent a revolution.
history: In the east, the Ottoman Turks took Baghdad from the Persians in 1535, establishing Ottoman rule in Iraq and gaining naval access to the Persian Gulf.
history: In August 1914, The Independent stated of the conflict, "This is the Great War.
history: After Vienna refused to withdraw its cruiser SMS Kaiserin Elisabeth from Tsingtao, Japan declared war on Austria-Hungary, and the ship was scuttled in November 1914.
history: The Fatimids built a powerful army and navy and achieved military successes.
history: Disposition of Italian colonial holdings was a question that had to be considered before the peace treaty officially ending the war with Italy could be completed.
history: Jealous of their privileges and firmly opposed to change, the Janissary revolted.
history: The British administered it as the British Military Administration of Libya.
history: 1522)
February 5 or 1579  – Giovanni Battista Moroni, Italian painter (b.
history: Faced with Russia in the east, Austria-Hungary could spare only one-third of its army to attack Serbia.
history: Often spelled out yksi – kaksi – seitsemän – kuusi – viisi, ei voittoa, "one – two – seven – six – five, no prize".
history: Small foreign communities of Christians remained.
history: Woman convinces Adam to do likewise, whereupon they become conscious of their nakedness, cover themselves, and hide from the sight of God.
history: The ancient historian Herodotus describes Libya and the Libyans in his fourth book, The Libyan Book.
history: In fact, in certain axiomatic developments of mathematics from set theory, 0 is defined to be the empty set.
history: The tension broke out into open conflict later that day during a Druze assault against the mixed village of Beit Mery, with the village's Druze and Christian residents subsequently calling for support from their co-religionists in Abadiyeh and al-Sahil, respectively.
history: By June 1918, over 667,000 members of the American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) were transported to France, a figure which reached 2 million by the end of November.
history: On the way Abram told Sarai to tell the Egyptians she was his sister, so that the Egyptians would not kill him.
history: He was honored with the Al-’Imama al-Mukawwara (the rounded turban), a rare distinction signifying supreme piety and wisdom.
history: Libya was ranked fourth on Open Doors' 2022 World Watch List, an annual ranking of the 50 countries where Christians face the most extreme persecution.
history: It is the direct successor of the National Liberation Army (Armée de Libération Nationale or ALN), the armed wing of the nationalist National Liberation Front which fought French colonial occupation during the Algerian War of Independence (1954–62).
history: Fitzgerald, Timothy J.
history: The 1623 Malta plague outbreak was a minor outbreak of plague (Maltese: pesta) on the island of Malta, then ruled by the Order of St John.
history: A major outbreak in March 1630 resulted from relaxed health measures during the carnival season, followed by a second wave in the spring and summer of 1631.
history: The facts below give a sense of how large 1,000,000,000 (109) is in the context of time according to current scientific evidence:
history: "Preparations for Civil War in Tripoli in the 1820s: Ali Karamanli, Hassuna D'Ghies and Jeremy Bentham".
history: This narrative led to the oversimplification of the conflict and justified the violence carried out by the Ottoman rule in Damascus.
history: 1600), the Italian historian and traveller Giovanni Tomasso Minadoi (d.
history: A combined German-Bulgarian-Turkish offensive captured Dobruja and Giurgiu, although the bulk of the Romanian army managed to escape encirclement and retreated to Bucharest, which surrendered to the Central Powers on 6 December 1916.
history: Influenza likely arrived in Spain around July, with the first cases being reported near Madrid in August.
history: The digit 0 with a dot in the center seems to have originated as an option on IBM 3270 displays and has continued with some modern computer typefaces such as Andalé Mono, and in some airline reservation systems.
history: Idris represented Libya in the subsequent UN negotiations.
history: In 1532, he made another attack on Vienna, but was repulsed in the siege of Güns.
history: Her story was greatly developed, during the Middle Ages, in the tradition of Aggadic midrashim, the Zohar and Jewish mysticism.
history: Modern Arabic uses Libya.
history: Influenza returned in 1558.
history: Two of Mary's physicians died as well.
history: ISBN 978-0-664-25592-3.
history: However, John Day argues that these stories are not explicitly attested in the Ugaritic texts but are reconstructed on the basis of speculative and dubious suppositions.
history: Informal or slang terms for 0 include zilch and zip.
history: The Hammadids developed a strong navy, promoted agriculture, industry, trade, and culture.
history: Members of the Agius family, relatives of the Bonnicis, also became ill and died, and this raised alarm and the authorities closed the houses of the victims.
history: A population estimate for the empire of 11,692,480 for the 1520–1535 period was obtained by counting the households in Ottoman tithe registers, and multiplying this number by 5.
history: Prior to greater research being conducted into influenza in the 19th century, some medical historians considered the descriptions of epidemic "angina" from 1557 to be scarlet fever, whooping cough, and diphtheria.
history: Its most prominent Berber figures were Saint Augustine, the bishop of Hippo Regius (modern-day Annaba, Algeria) and his mother, Saint Monica.
history: Aircraft began becoming much more prominent in the Spanish Civil War and especially World War II.
history: It is estimated that between 30,000 and 150,000 Harkis and their dependents were killed by the FLN or by lynch mobs in Algeria.
history: Some historians see this as a significant escalation, ending any chance of Austria cooperating with Russia in the Balkans, while also damaging diplomatic relations between Serbia and Italy.
history: In the aftermath of the war, the German, Austro-Hungarian, Ottoman, and Russian empires disappeared.
history: Jifara Plain has an underground aquifer, enabling well-driven irrigation.
history: The Ottoman Turks began using falconets, which were short but wide cannons, during the Siege of Constantinople.
history: In 1611, the local chiefs of the area conducted a coup d'état and successfully appointed Suleiman Safar, their own leader, as dey (local chief).
history: Ottoman Sultan Mahmud II sent in troops ostensibly to restore order, but instead deposed and exiled Ali II, marking the end of both the Karamanli dynasty and an independent Tripolitania.
history: A bloodless military coup in 1969, initiated by a coalition led by Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, overthrew King Idris I and created a republic.
history: Genesis 4 deals with the birth of Adam's sons Cain and Abel and the story of the first murder, followed by the birth of a third son, Seth.
history: Albanian resistance was a major obstacle to Ottoman expansion on the Italian peninsula.
history: Two Christians from Jezzine were murdered at Khan Iqlim al-Shumar by Druze from Hasbaya on 26 April, and the next day, another four Christians were murdered in Katuli.
history: Under 2% of the land is arable and about 4% is suitable for grazing livestock.
history: After further advances by the Turks, the Habsburg ruler Ferdinand officially recognised Ottoman ascendancy in Hungary in 1547.
history: doi:10.1186/s12978-024-01805-1.
history: As previously agreed with French president Raymond Poincaré, Russian plans at the start of the war were to simultaneously advance into Austrian Galicia and East Prussia as soon as possible.
history: Most of the Christian settlers left to France after the country's independence.
history: Further cases appeared in the next few days, and on 28 January the health authorities held a secret meeting and concluded that the disease was probably the plague.
history: The resulting plunder by the Druze rebels, which targeted the Jewish community, lasted for three days.
history: February 8 – The city council of Amsterdam in the Netherlands ratifies a treaty placing the city under the authority of Willem, Prince of Orange, and joining the States of Holland.
history: "The Global Gag Rule: Impacts of conservative ideology on women's health".
history: Foreign consulates were also assaulted, with the Russian consulate plundered and burned and its dragoman, Khalil Shehadi, killed.
history: On some occasions, simple weapons employed in an unorthodox fashion have proven advantageous; Swiss pikemen gained many victories through their ability to transform a traditionally defensive weapon into an offensive one.
history: The Soviet Union proposed separate provincial trusteeships, claiming Tripolitania for itself and assigning Fezzan to France and Cyrenaica to Britain.
history: In 1817, Muhammad al-Mukni, the Bey of Fezzan under Karamanli authority, obtained permission from Yusuf to assist Muhammad al-Kanimi, the de facto ruler of Kanem–Bornu, in the latter's war against the neighbouring kingdom of Baghirmi.
history: This gave influenza unrestricted access to Athens, Sofia, and Sarajevo as it spread throughout the empire.
history: In December 2021, the country's first presidential election was scheduled, but was delayed to June 2022 and later postponed further.
history: The Other Press.
history: Ottoman illumination covers non-figurative painted or drawn decorative art in books or on sheets in muraqqa or albums, as opposed to the figurative images of the Ottoman miniature.
history: By the Second World War, the use of the smaller divisions, platoons and companies became much more important as precise operations became vital.
history: The second period of direct Ottoman rule saw administrative changes, and greater order in the governance of the three provinces of Libya.
history: After eating, Abraham and the three visitors got up.
history: The surviving Serbian soldiers were evacuated to Greece.
history: The development of the tourism sector in Algeria had previously been hampered by a lack of facilities, but since 2004 a broad tourism development strategy has been implemented resulting in many hotels of a high modern standard being built.
history: They were also commonly donated to mosques, which often amassed large collections of them.
history: Brant and the other consuls were generally content with Ahmad Pasha's repeated reassurances that the situation in Damascus was under control.
history: The Ottoman navy recovered quickly, persuading Venice to sign a peace treaty in 1573, allowing the Ottomans to expand and consolidate their position in North Africa.
history: In Islam, Adam is considered Khalifa (خليفة) (successor) on earth.
history: 1642)
May 11 – Sophie Axelsdatter Brahe, Danish noblewoman (died 1646)
June 5 – Claude, Duke of Chevreuse (d.
history: He ranked in the top 10 in the Tawjihi exams, scoring a 902 out of a possible 1000, which earned him a scholarship at AUB through USAID.
history: The partition of the Ottoman Empire was finalised under the terms of the 1920 Treaty of Sèvres.
history: 30 (1955) started its operations on 1 April 1956 under the name of National Bank of Libya, to replace the Libyan Currency Commission which was established by the United Nations and other supervising countries in 1951 to ensure the well-being of the weak and poor Libyan economy.
history: In 1883, a German military mission under General Baron Colmar von der Goltz arrived to train the Ottoman Army, leading to the so-called "Goltz generation" of German-trained officers, who played a notable role in the politics of the empire's last years.
history: The Christians who remained in the quarter were largely in hiding for fear of attack.
history: World War I also saw the first use of aircraft carriers in combat, with HMS Furious launching Sopwith Camels in a successful raid against the Zeppelin hangars at Tondern in July 1918, as well as blimps for antisubmarine patrol.
history: According to the 1910 census, speakers of the Hungarian language included approximately 54% of the entire population of the Kingdom of Hungary.
history: Mastanbal was a sportsman who was passionate about horseback riding.
history: The epidemic spread rapidly and efforts to contain it were poor, in part due to disagreements on whether the disease was actually plague or not.
history: Since 1977 families receive enough land to satisfy their personal requirements; this policy was designed to prevent large private sector farms and end using fertile "tribal" lands for grazing.
history: Instead, many Christians pooled money together to pay for protection by local Muslims, who formed an ad hoc police force.
history: However, Abraham's nephew, Lot, met with them and strongly insisted that these two "men" stay at his house for the night.
history: The rest of the fleet continues its voyage around the world.
history: Early next morning, Abimelech informed his servants of his dream and approached Abraham inquiring as to why he had brought such great guilt upon his kingdom.
history: 1520)
December – Nicholas Heath, Archbishop of York and Lord Chancellor of England (b.
history: The British government placed Ireland under martial law in response to the Easter Rising, though once the immediate threat of revolution had dissipated, the authorities did try to make concessions to nationalist feeling.
history: The government recognized this in 1976, and took measures discouraging citrus and tomato cultivation, which require large water amounts.
history: The support provided by the NATO air forces contributed to the ultimate success of the revolution.
history: 1509)
April 19 – Uesugi Kenshin, Japanese samurai and warlord (b.
history: The country's health law permits abortions if the pregnancy risks the life of the mother.
history: On 7 October 2012, Libya's Prime Minister-elect Mustafa A.G.
history: Stone argued this insecurity in land tenure strongly discouraged Timariots from seeking long-term development of their land, and instead led them to adopt a strategy of short-term exploitation, which had deleterious effects on the Ottoman economy.
history: Surname-i Hümayun (Imperial Festival Books) were albums that commemorated celebrations in the Ottoman Empire in pictorial and textual detail.
history: Egypt, which had been conquered by the Ottoman Empire around 40 years prior, became an access point for influenza to travel south through the Red Sea along shipping routes.
history: By 1998, cereal production was 207,000 mt and met only 15% of the country's needs.
history: To cope with social demands, the authorities raised expenditure, especially on basic food support, employment creation, support for SMEs, and higher salaries.
history: He also led an attack on Thessaloniki, in which there also was a brief rebellion.
history: The project utilises a pipeline system that pumps fossil water from the Nubian Sandstone Aquifer System from down south in Libya to cities in the populous Libyan northern Mediterranean coast including Tripoli and Benghazi.
history: Project Gutenberg.
history: The militias made up the so-called Libya Shield Force, a parallel national force, which operated at the request, rather than at the order, of the defence ministry.
history: 1,453,933,568 = 685
1,464,407,113 : number of series-reduced trees with 39 nodes
1,475,789,056 = 384162 = 1964 = 148
1,528,823,808 = 11523
1,533,776,805 : both pentagonal and triangular.
history: Many Christians did not trust Nayifa due to her frequent hosting of Uthman Bey, who the local Christians increasingly lost trust of, and her family's leadership of the Druzes.
history: However, the northern regions enjoy a milder Mediterranean climate.
history: However, the 2021 Arab Barometer report found that those who said they were not religious among Algerians has decreased, with just 2.6% identifying as non-religious.
history: Germany sought to strangle Allied sea lanes before the United States could transport a large army overseas, but, after initial successes, eventually failed to do so.
history: The sailors' revolt, which then ensued in the naval ports of Wilhelmshaven and Kiel, spread across the whole country within days and led to the proclamation of a republic on 9 November 1918, shortly thereafter to the abdication of Wilhelm II, and German surrender.
history: Length: There are one million millimetres in a kilometre, and roughly a million sixteenths of an inch in a mile (1 sixteenth = 0.0625).
history: In the second half of the 16th century, the Ottoman Empire came under increasing strain from inflation and the rapidly rising costs of warfare that were impacting both Europe and the Middle East.
history: The origin of the name "Libya" first appeared in an inscription of Ramesses II, written as rbw in hieroglyphic.
history: In April 1918, the Rome Congress of Oppressed Nationalities met, including Czechoslovak, Italian, Polish, Transylvanian, and Yugoslav representatives who urged the Allies to support national self-determination for the peoples residing within Austria-Hungary.
history: The former legislature was the General National Congress, which had 200 seats.
history: As of 2013, civil courts employed sharia judges in regular courts of appeal as specialists in sharia appellate cases.
history: Agriculture contributed 9% of GDP in 1962, 2% in 1978, 3.5% in 1984 and 5.6% by 1997.
history: The demand was refused by third American President Thomas Jefferson, an American naval force was sent and blockaded Tripoli, and the desultory First Barbary War dragged on from 1801 until 3 June 1805.
history: Fighting between the Shihab emirs led by Sa'ad al-Din Shihab and the Druze led by Sa'id al-Shams and Sa'id Jumblatt had been going on since the last days of May, particularly in Deir Mimas.
history: 1850), was maintained when in 1826 the local Kabyle population declared independence, and when it was on 13 October 1837 conquered by France, until it was incorporated into Algeria in 1848.
history: In late 1915, a Franco-British force landed at Salonica in Greece to offer assistance and to pressure its government to declare war against the Central Powers.
history: Germany on 10 January 1920.
history: He has brought his wife and his children—leaders of the camp, and he has reached the western boundary in the fields of Perire."
The name "Libya" was brought back into use in 1903 by Italian geographer Federico Minutilli.
history: Christian rule lasted then until 1551, when Tripoli was besieged and conquered by famed Ottoman admirals Sinan Pasha and Turgut Reis.
history: This period of renewed assertiveness came to a calamitous end in 1683 when Grand Vizier Kara Mustafa Pasha led a huge army to attempt a second Ottoman siege of Vienna in the Great Turkish War of 1683–1699.
history: In 1979, fishing boats were estimated at 325, 13 being commercial trawlers; the rest small and medium-sized boats.
history: The new legislature allocated 30 seats for women, would have 200 seats overall (with individuals able to run as members of political parties), and allowed Libyans of other nationalities to run for office.
history: "Access to mifepristone, misoprostol, and contraceptive medicines in eight countries in the Eastern Mediterranean Region: descriptive analyses of country-level assessments".
history: However, the new kingdom faced challenging prospects.
history: While sources vary as to the exact number of people killed, around one-fifth of London's population is estimated to have died.
history: Health records have been maintained in Algeria since 1882 and began adding Muslims living in the south to their vital record database in 1905 during French rule.
history: It had one of the lowest per capita incomes in the world and also one of the highest illiteracy rates.
history: Four years later, John Hunyadi prepared another army of Hungarian and Wallachian forces to attack the Turks, but was again defeated at the Second Battle of Kosovo in 1448.
history: While he was living in there, Abraham openly claimed that Sarah was his sister, and she confirmed this assertion, leading King Abimelech to call for Sarah to be brought to him.
history: (In ancient Rome, the killing of one in ten soldiers in a cohort was the punishment for cowardice or mutiny; or, one-tenth of the able-bodied men in a village as a form of retribution, thus causing a labor shortage and threat of starvation in agrarian societies.)
history: As part of commemorations for the centenary of the 1918 Armistice, French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited the site of the signing of the Armistice of Compiègne and unveiled a plaque to reconciliation.
history: JSTOR 3776232.
history: The Empire faced continuous unrest in the years leading up to World War I, including the 31 March Incident and two further coups in 1912 and 1913.
history: In Judaism, he is the founding father of the covenant, the special relationship between the Jewish people and God—leading to the belief that the Jews are the chosen people of God.
history: Abu-Husayn views the constant state of rebellion by the Druze and the general insubordination of chieftains in parts of Syria where the government had been unable to exercise authority as the direct cause of Ibrahim Pasha's expedition.
history: Supplied with arms by extremists within the Serbian Black Hand intelligence organisation, they hoped his death would free Bosnia from Austrian rule.
history: In 1821, the Greeks declared war on the Sultan.
history: While the Allies debated a response to Wilson's offer, the Germans chose to rebuff it in favour of "a direct exchange of views".
history: The Ottomans ended the Byzantine Empire with the conquest of Constantinople in 1453 by Mehmed II.
history: Duwayhi's version attributes the cause of the campaign to a raid of the Constantinople-bound tribute caravan of Egypt's governor Ibrahim Pasha by bandits in Jun Akkar, a coastal area north of Tripoli.
history: Barbosa-Machado referred to 1557 as the "anno de catarro."
history: Resistance continued through revolts by the Kabyles in the 1850s and 1871, and other uprisings, all brutally suppressed, followed by massive land expropriation.
history: In contradiction to Duwayhi's account of the tribute having been robbed, contemporary accounts indicate it arrived in Constantinople with about 300,000–1,000,000 piasters, 173,000 gold pieces, an emerald throne for Sultan Murad III (r.
history: Abram and Sarai tried to make sense of how he would become a progenitor of nations, because after 10 years of living in Canaan, no child had been born.
history: He therefore incited rebellions in Greek majority areas of the Ottoman Empire, including Thessaly, Epirus and to a lesser extent Macedonia.
history: Rainfall is fairly plentiful along the coastal part of the Tell Atlas, ranging from 400 to 670 mm (15.7 to 26.4 in) annually, the amount of precipitation increasing from west to east.
history: If a person walks at a speed of 4 km/h (2.5 mph), it would take them approximately five and a half hours to reach the end of the fingers.
history: Its crude oil production stands at around 1.1 million barrels/day, but it is also a major gas producer and exporter, with important links to Europe.
history: After the coup, opposition parties were subject to heavy repression.
history: On 23 May, Italy declared war on Austria-Hungary, and on Germany fifteen months later.
history: Libya gained independence in 1951 as the United Libyan Kingdom (المملكة الليبية المتحدة al-Mamlakah al-Lībiyyah al-Muttaḥidah), changing its name to the Kingdom of Libya (المملكة الليبية al-Mamlakah al-Lībiyyah), literally "Libyan Kingdom", in 1963.
history: However, the collapsing Ottoman economy could not sustain the fleet's strength for long.
history: The government was also friendly towards Western countries such as the United Kingdom, United States, France, Italy, and Greece, and established full diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union in 1955.
history: The Allied breakthrough on the Macedonian front cut communications between the Ottoman Empire and the other Central Powers, and made Vienna vulnerable to attack.
history: Ginzberg, Louis (1998).
history: Qurqumaz's son Fakhr al-Din II was appointed sanjak-bey of Sidon-Beirut in the early 1590s and was additionally assigned Safad Sanjak in 1602.
history: In 1916, the Arab Revolt began in Ottoman-controlled territories of the Middle East to achieve independence.
history: Troopships were too fast for the submarines and did not travel the North Atlantic in convoys.
history: In 1998 the budget allocation for education represented 38.2% of Libya's national budget.
history: In Genesis, the name "Adam" is given to the first human.
history: According to the CIA, the official language of Libya is Arabic.
history: For unclear reasons, the population in the 18th century was lower than that in the 16th century.
history: Hundreds of Libyans lost their lives in the country's support for Idi Amin's Uganda in its war against Tanzania.
history: The Ottoman constitution of 1876 did officially cement the official imperial status of Turkish.
history: Lawyer Francesco Muralto noted that "the disease killed 10 people out of a thousand in one day," supporting a fatality rate of around 1%.
history: Christopher Stevens, and three others.
history: Abram and God then made a covenant ceremony, and God told Abram of the future bondage of his people "in a land that is not theirs", referring to Egypt.
history: Morgan, Alaina M (June 2024).
history: Approximately 15,000 deployed men sustained gruesome facial injuries, causing social stigma and marginalisation; they were called the gueules cassées (broken faces).
history: In classical antiquity, the Phoenicians established city-states and trading posts in western Libya, while several Greek cities were established in the East.
history: After Homer, Aeschylus, Pindar, and other ancient Greek writers used the name.
history: It permitted the Turkic Begs in the Altishahr region to maintain their previous status, and they administered the area for the Qing as officials.
history: Along with Isaac and Jacob, he is the one whose name would appear united with God, as God in Judaism is called Elohei Avraham, Elohei Yitzchak, vEilohei Ya'akov ("God of Abraham, God of Isaac, and God of Jacob").
history: Through the use of Ottoman imperial archives and other original sources from the Ottoman period, Abu-Husayn expanded on Salibi's work in this field, and successfully challenged many of the myths of Lebanese history during the Ottoman era.
history: These restrictions are just starting to be lifted off recently although questions about Algeria's slowly-diversifying economy remain.
history: July 31
At the Battle of Rijmenam, fought near Antwerp in what is now Belgium, a combined Dutch and English force under the command of the Count of Boussu and England's John Norreys defeats Spanish troops commanded by Don Juan de Austria.
history: Prisoners from the Allied armies totalled about 1.4 million (not including Russia, which lost 2.5–3.5 million soldiers as prisoners).
history: Timed to coincide with the Bulgarian Declaration of Independence from the Ottoman Empire, this unilateral action was denounced by the European powers, but accepted as there was no consensus on how to resolve the situation.
history: Among the Christians who fled the city, a number were confronted by peasants and either killed or forced to convert to Islam.
history: On 18 June, Druze forces under Khattar Imad's command and reinforced by Shia peasants and Sunni Sardiyya Bedouin cavalry from Hauran (3,000 men altogether) began their assault on Zahle, some of whose defenders were feuding among each other at the time of the attack.
history: The law establishing the CBL stipulates that the objectives of the central bank shall be to maintain monetary stability in Libya and to promote the sustained growth of the economy in accordance with the general economic policy of the state.
history: Church services, Sicilian social life, and the economy were disrupted as the flu sickened a large portion of the population.
history: Families were altered by the departure of many men.
history: The country had the only plain-coloured flag in the world until 2011, when Libya adopted its current flag.
history: The disease was imported to Malta by Tuscan galleys that had captured vessels from Alexandria.
history: Late-period sources give more detailed descriptions of Libya and its inhabitants.
history: On 23 July, Austria delivered an ultimatum to Serbia, listing ten demands made intentionally unacceptable to provide an excuse for starting hostilities.
history: However, from 1908 to 1913, military spending by the six major European powers increased by over 50% in real terms.
history: Shibli and 1,500 of his men fled to Mount Hermon, while most of the insurgents in the Hauran surrendered and were granted amnesty.
history: Both the spoken Arabic dialects and Berber, still retain words from Italian, that were acquired before and during the Libia Italiana period.
history: Almost 50 people (including three Italian soldiers) were killed and over 800 people were arrested.
history: 1621)
April 17 – Maximilian van der Sandt, Dutch theologian (d.
history: Sometimes the soldiers are unable to immediately gauge the significance of the combat; in the aftermath of the Battle of Waterloo, some British officers were in doubt as to whether the day's events merited the title of "battle" or would be called an "action".
history: In 1754 the artillery school was reopened on a semi-secret basis.
history: Algeria has been categorised by the US government funded Freedom House as "not free" since it began publishing such ratings in 1972, with the exception of 1989, 1990, and 1991, when the country was labelled "partly free".
history: British military historians J.F.C.
history: Sadiq al-Kabir said that he had been forced to flee Libya to escape threats from armed militants, and called Abdul Hamid Dbeibah's attempt to replace him illegal, as it breached United Nations negotiated accords regarding control over the bank.
history: Slightly further to the south are the massifs of Arkenu, Uweinat, and Kissu.
history: The disease crept west towards London, and on 1 May deaths were being recorded just outside the city's northern walls in St Botolph-without-Bishopsgate.
history: In January 2015, meetings were held with the aim to find a peaceful agreement between the rival parties in Libya.
history: The episodes are often only loosely linked, and the sequence is not always logical.
history: IDS Bulletin.
history: Supraorbital pain and vision problems were symptoms of coqueluche, so sufferers may have felt tempted to wear hoods due to light sensitivity.
history: See for example this 11th-century Christian altar engraved with Abraham's and other sacrifices taken to prefigure that of Christ in the Eucharist.
history: Egypt today contains the Siwa Oasis, which borders Libya at the Western Desert.
history: Libya is one of the world's most tribal countries.
history: There, he studied under the historian Peter M.
history: 1650)
Samuel Jordan, American colonial legislator (d.
history: Trillion is often abbreviated as T, t, or tn.
history: In addition, Algeria's external debt is low at about 2% of GDP.
history: The results of the elections had CUP win 269 of 275 seats in the Chamber, with Freedom and Accord only netting 6 Deputies.
history: This policy was based on the work of US naval author Alfred Thayer Mahan, who argued that possession of a blue-water navy was vital for global power projection; Tirpitz had his books translated into German, while Wilhelm made them required reading for his advisors and senior military personnel.
history: The sultanate was abolished on 1 November 1922, and the last sultan, Mehmed VI (reigned 1918–1922), left the country on 17 November 1922.
history: ISBN 978-0-8054-0101-1.
history: Their house and its contents were burnt down, and a cordon sanitaire was imposed on the town of Żabbar.
history: The Siwi language, one of the Berber languages, is still spoken in the area by around 21,000 people.
history: In addition, the National Transitional Council estimated 50,000 wounded.
history: Abraham moved to live between Kadesh and Shur, settling in Gerar, later associated with the Philistines".
history: Many rural traditionalists never accepted this secularisation, and by the 1990s they were reasserting a demand for a larger role for Islam.
history: Much of the local population sought refuge in Acre.
history: 1533)
September 22 – Archduke Wenceslaus of Austria (b.
history: At least 3,000 targets were struck in 14,202 strike sorties, 716 of them in Tripoli and 492 in Brega.
history: This revolution is profoundly popular?
history: Algeria was the site of the highest state of development of Middle Paleolithic Flake tool techniques.
history: In turn, Christians' higher educational levels allowed them to play a larger role in the economy, with the rise in prominence of groups such as the Sursock family indicative of this.
history: Berossus and Genesis, Manetho and Exodus.
history: An estimate of 7,230,660 for the first census held in 1831 is considered a serious undercount, as this census was meant only to register possible conscripts.
history: In Genesis 2 God forms "Adam", this time meaning a single male human, out of "the dust of the ground", places him in the Garden of Eden, and forms a woman, Eve, as his companion.
history: All nations pledged to follow the Hague Conventions on fair treatment of prisoners of war, and the survival rate for POWs was generally much higher than that of combatants at the front.
history: Bloomer, Fiona; Pierson, Claire; Estrada Claudio, Sylvia (5 December 2018).
history: 19729 is the number of digits in 
  
    
      
        2
        ↑↑
        5
      
    
    {\displaystyle 2\uparrow \uparrow 5}
  
(Tetration)
19739 = fourth nice Friedman prime
19871 = octahedral number
19891 = palindromic prime
19927 = cuban prime
19991 = palindromic prime
history: Two further outbreaks would occur in Hospitaller-ruled Malta, a limited outbreak in 1655 which killed 20 people and a massive epidemic in 1675–1676 which killed some 11,300 people, a considerable part of the island's population.
history: In 1977 imported food valuations were over 37 times higher than in 1958.
history: At the same time the Ottomans unleashed a wave of reprisals against the Greek civilian population and threatened to kill Metropolite Agapios of Grevena.
history: The appeals court in Tripoli rejected appeals for his disqualification and allowed Dbeibeh back on the candidates' list, along with a number of other previously disqualified candidates, for the election originally scheduled for 24 December.
history: A letter in the English Daily News in July 1860 stated that between 7,000 and 8,000 had been murdered, 5,000 widowed, and 16,000 orphaned.
history: During the reign of Suleiman the Magnificent in the 16th century, the Ottoman Empire became a global power.
history: The war had killed approximately 825,000 indigenous Algerians since 1830".
history: The CUP's Talaat Bey went as far as to say some time after the coup that the CUP had previously offered Nazım Pasha the position of grand vizier and the leadership its cabinet.
history: Following its capture, the Druze plundered Deir al-Qamar until 6 June and destroyed 130 houses.
history: This tactic worked as Fuad Pasha's swift reaction to the violence conveyed the message that the Ottomans did not need the help of the French or any other European nation.
history: The Spaniards occupied Tripoli in 1510, but the Spaniards were more concerned with controlling the port than with the inconveniences of administering a colony.
history: Libyan dinar
List of banks in Libya
List of central banks
List of central banks of Africa
Ministry of Finance (Libya)
Payment system
Real-time gross settlement
history: Group 1 of the periodic table consists of hydrogen and the alkali metals.
history: The fraud included early balloting, secret counting and reporting of votes, ballot stuffing, reapportioning electoral districts, and more, although the CUP still enjoyed genuine support outside of the cities.
history: But Sophia later sends her daughter Zoe (the spiritual Eve) to give the physical Adam life before leaving the physical Eve with Adam and entering the Tree of Knowledge.
history: According to some accounts, Englishman Martin Frobisher holds the first Thanksgiving celebration by Europeans in Canada, on Newfoundland, after he and his fleet encounter two ships that they feared had been lost.
history: In 1913, there was a cholera outbreak in forces of the Romanian Army which were taking part in military operations of the Second Balkan War in Bulgarian areas.
history: Socially, Algeria resembled pre-Revolutionary southern European societies, with a powerful aristocracy, a poor peasantry, a weak middle class, and little influence from Enlightenment ideas.
history: Ferhat Abbas shifted from assimilationism after the rejection of the Blum-Viollette bill (1936).
history: Both Christian and Druze elite families shared a culture of lordship and often allied against their own commoners (ahali).
history: Non-Muslims remained a significant and economically influential minority, albeit declining significantly by the 19th century, due largely to migration and secession.
history: ISBN 978-90-04-53113-0.
history: In an effort to expand education of the Ottoman period among Syrian and Arab students in general, he wrote a comprehensive textbook of the period al-'Arab wa-al-'Uthmaniyyun, 1516–1916 ('The Arabs and the Ottomans, 1516-1916'), published in 1974.
history: After the front was broken, Allied forces started to liberate Serbia and reached Skopje at 29 September, after which Bulgaria signed an armistice with the Allies on 30 September.
history: At the same time the Qanun (or Kanun), dynastic law, co-existed with religious law or Sharia.
history: The narrative of the opera is based on the story of Abraham, and his immediate family, as it is recounted in religious texts, and understood by individuals from different cultures and religious traditions.
history: Modern research by the historian Abdul-Rahim Abu-Husayn in the 1980s suggests that the Jun Akkar raid did not occur and that successive government–Druze hostilities from the 1520s onward culminated with the 1585 government expedition.
history: Between 2007 and 2013, FDATIC subsidised 98 films (feature films, documentaries and short films).
history: By contrast, in astronomical year numbering, the year 1 BC is numbered 0, the year 2 BC is numbered −1, and so forth.
history: These reforms included the "fair and public trial[s] of all accused regardless of religion", the creation of a system of "separate competences, religious and civil", and the validation of testimony on non-Muslims.
history: The German General Staff had long assumed they faced a war on two fronts; the Schlieffen Plan envisaged using 80% of the army to defeat France, then switching to Russia.
history: He is said to have been called by God to leave the house of his father Terah and settle in the land of Canaan, which God now promises to Abraham and his progeny.
history: Washing places near the sea were set up in Valletta, Birgu and Senglea allowing suspected cases to wash in an attempt to purify themselves and their clothes.
history: Bibcode:1978TrIBG...3..285M.
history: They are located about 1,500 km (932 mi) south of the capital, Algiers, and just east of Tamanghasset.
history: Selim's efforts cost him his throne and his life, but were resolved in spectacular and bloody fashion by his successor, the dynamic Mahmud II, who eliminated the Janissary corps in 1826.
history: 1613)
François Ravaillac, killer of Henry IV of France (d.
history: After Masinissa's death in 148 BC, succession struggles arose.
history: UN sanctions were lifted in September 2003, and Libya announced in December 2003 that it would abandon programs to build weapons of mass destruction.
history: Like a Fascist Italy, Nazi Germany sought to redirect the memory of the war to the benefit of its policies.
history: The word "battle" can also be used infrequently to refer to an entire operational campaign, although this usage greatly diverges from its conventional or customary meaning.
history: Hessini, Leila (July 2008).
history: The Sétif and Guelma massacre in 1945 catalysed local resistance that culminated in the outbreak of the Algerian War in 1954.
history: In 1914, the British Indian Army was larger than the British Army itself, and between 1914 and 1918 an estimated 1.3 million Indian soldiers and labourers served in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.
history: 1 is the most common leading digit in many sets of real-world numerical data.
history: 1632)
Horio Tadauji, Japanese daimyō (d.
history: In 1921, the total reparation sum was placed at 132 billion gold marks.
history: Napoleon III's more sympathetic policies toward Muslims alarmed the settlers.
history: Teachers of Arabic, brought in from other Muslim countries, spread conventional Islamic thought in schools and sowed the seeds of a return to Orthodox Islam.
history: After difficult negotiations, the Évian Accords were signed in March 1962, leading to a ceasefire and a referendum in which Algerians overwhelmingly voted for independence.
history: Algerian literature contains works whose main concern is the assertion of Algerian national entity.
history: Toward the end of the Caucasian Wars, 90% of the Circassians were ethnically cleansed and exiled from their homelands in the Caucasus, fleeing to the Ottoman Empire, resulting in the settlement of 500,000 to 700,000 Circassians in the Ottoman Empire.
history: As a result, his successors continually held the title and even occasionally identified as pasha.
history: Rather than a direct attack across their shared frontier, the German right wing would sweep through the Netherlands and Belgium, then swing south, encircling Paris and trapping the French army against the Swiss border.
history: 14 (2): 144–166.
history: Improvements in health and sanitation made them more attractive to live and work in.
history: The rest of the population was told to self-isolate in their own houses, with only one person per family being allowed to go out daily for errands.
history: Many animals are now extinct, including the Barbary lions, Atlas bears and crocodiles.
history: A second despatch from 11 P.M.
history: Adam ate the fruit unaware of what he was doing, and was filled with grief.
history: Previously in British English (but not in American English), the word "billion" referred exclusively to a million millions (1,000,000,000,000).
history: An hour later, as Ferdinand was returning from visiting the injured officers in hospital, his car took a wrong turn into a street where Gavrilo Princip was standing.
history: For example, the annual number of burials in Tonbridge increased from 33 on average in 1556 to 61 in 1557, 105 in 1558, and 94 in 1559.
history: Internally, the Regency expanded its authority over much of present-day Algeria while allowing considerable autonomy to tribal and regional leaders.
history: For the 2021 Press Freedom Index its score dropped to 165th out of 180 countries.
history: The Arab Revolt began in 1916 with British support.
history: Geographically, the Mount Lebanon Emirate corresponded with the central part of present-day Lebanon, which historically has had a Christian and Druze majority.
history: In standard form, it is written as 1 × 109.
history: Hence, the Ain Boucherit evidence shows that ancestral hominins inhabited the Mediterranean fringe in northern Africa much earlier than previously thought.
history: The meaning of the word "million" is common to the short scale and long scale numbering systems, unlike the larger numbers, which have different names in the two systems.
history: Afterwards, the French consulate, which the rioters held in particular disdain, was burned down, followed by the Dutch, Austrian and Belgian consulates.
history: Modern Ottoman studies indicate that the change in relations between the Ottoman Turks and central Europe was caused by the opening of the new sea routes.
history: Alexander the Great ended Persian rule in 331 BC and received tribute from Cyrenaica.
history: If no resolution is reached in a battle, it can result in a stalemate.
history: Algeria is also crossed by the Trans-Sahara Highway, which is now completely paved.
history: Lakh is derived from lakṣa for 100,000 in Sanskrit.
history: The resulting counter-attack, which started the Hundred Days Offensive on 8 August, led to a marked collapse in German morale.
history: Colloquial Algerian Arabic has some Berber loanwords which represent 8% to 9% of its vocabulary.
history: The dissolution of the Russian, German, Austro-Hungarian, and Ottoman empires led to new national boundaries and the creation of new independent states including Poland, Finland, the Baltic states, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia.
history: Italy, Bulgaria, Romania, Greece, and others entered the war from 1915 onward.
history: Beirut: American University of Beirut.
history: Ginzberg, Louis (1909).
history: Forces with inferior weapons have still emerged victorious at times, for example in the Wars of Scottish Independence.
history: This Turkic word is usually considered a borrowing from an Iranian language.
history: European naval superiority, the weakening of corsair warfare after the Napoleonic era, internal unrest, economic difficulties, and repeated bombardments reduced Algerian power.
history: The Zahalni militiamen prepared the town's defences by digging deep trenches around it, building a brick wall at its southern edge and fortifying parts of the town's narrow roads and paths.
history: Just Bey itself was part of the territorial title of the ruler, and also as a title used by all male members of the family (rather like Sultan in the Ottoman dynasty).
history: The lower case "j" can be considered a swash variant of a lower-case Roman numeral "i", often employed for the final i of a "lower-case" Roman numeral.
history: One of two major outbreaks in Italy during the 17th century, it affected northern and central Italy and resulted in at least 280,000 deaths, with some estimating fatalities as high as one million, or about 35% of the population.
history: Fleas can also carry the disease between people.
history: On the other end of the spectrum were ethnic parties, which included Poale Zion, Al-Fatat, and Armenian national movement organised under Armenian Revolutionary Federation.
history: Nonetheless, Tyre and Sidon were at the brink of civil strife due to violence between Sunni and Shia residents on the one side and Christian refugees fleeing the war on the other.
history: 24 (4): 665–675.
history: The Algerian cuisine is a mix of Arab, Berber, Turkish and French roots.
history: What other time are you awaiting, brother Macedonians?
history: Among these, Cyrenaica was made an independent sanjak in 1863 that was directly dependent on Istanbul, then it was assigned to Tripoli's supervision in 1871, and finally it was attached to Istanbul again in 1888.
history: It occurred between December 1675 and August 1676, and resulted in approximately 11,300 deaths, making it the deadliest epidemic in Maltese history.
history: The other assassins were also unsuccessful.
history: Sayyid Idris held the esteemed position as the leader of the influential Senussi religious brotherhood, which was founded by his grandfather in the preceding century as a response to Western influence in the Arab world.
history: The University of Algiers, founded in 1879, is the oldest, it offers education in various disciplines (law, medicine, science and letters).
history: Besides solar energy, areas of research in Algeria include space and satellite telecommunications, nuclear power and medical research.
history: Abraham lived to see Isaac marry Rebekah, and to see the birth of his twin grandsons Jacob and Esau.
history: According to one of the possible definitions, a battle is an occurrence of combat in warfare between opposing military units of any number or size.
history: The Arab nationalist goal was to create a single unified and independent Arab state stretching from Aleppo, Syria, to Aden, Yemen, which the British promised to recognise.
history: By 19 June, the town was emptied of its inhabitants.
history: The most prominent of these were the Mauro-Roman and Altava Kingdoms.
history: Around thirty women were elected to become members of parliament.
history: Due to the fact that the journalists and activists criticise the ruling government, some media organisations' licenses are cancelled.
history: The local Druze leadership considered the Maronite mobilization at Baabda to be a provocation to the Druze in the mixed Metn district, while the Maronites saw the garrisoning of Ottoman troops under Khurshid Pasha near Naccache on 26 May as a prelude to a Druze assault.
history: 23 AD), a highly cultured scholar and husband of Cleopatra Selene, as client king of Mauretania (central Algeria and Morocco), bringing a period of prosperity.
history: These issues were exacerbated by unimaginative strategies and tactics.
history: Their accounts were the principal source used for the event by the modern historians Peter Malcolm Holt, Abdul-Karim Rafeq, Kamal Salibi and Muhammad Adnan Bakhit.
history: By 2017, 60% of the Libyan population were malnourished.
history: 0 also plays a role in array indexing.
history: Baker Books.
history: Libya's population includes 1.7 million students, over 270,000 of whom study at the tertiary level.
history: After heavy fighting that day, the Christians, who suffered 26 casualties, managed to briefly push back the Druzes, who suffered 130 fatalities, and proceeded to burn down Druze homes in the area.
history: On 6 April 1917, Congress declared war on Germany as an "Associated Power" of the Allies.
history: 1,000,000,000 is also the cube of 1000.
history: Libyans have a heritage in the traditions of the previously nomadic Bedouin Arabic speakers and sedentary Berber tribes.
history: During this period, at least 15,000 people died of plague within the City of London and another 4,900 died of plague in the surrounding parishes.
history: A battle of envelopment involves an attack on one or both flanks; the classic example being the double envelopment of the Battle of Cannae.
history: The first issue had an image of former Iraqi president Saddam Hussein and the Spiral Minaret - Al-Minārat Al-Malwiyyah in Samarra.
history: Joined by two sheikhs from Mount Lebanon—Hasan Junbalat and Nasir ad-Din al-Imad—the Druze fighters were led into Wadi Bakka, where on July 4 they suffered a decisive defeat, losing some 640 men including al-Imad.
history: By 11 June, a 5,000-strong Druze force assembled outside Rashaya consisting of local Druze militiamen, the Druze force from the previous Hasbaya battle and Druze troops under the command of Isma'il al-Atrash.
history: 1510)
September 3 – Giulio della Rovere, Italian Catholic cardinal (b.
history: Algeria showed the highest LGBT acceptance compared to other Arab countries where the survey was conducted.
history: The Macedonian front was at first mostly static.
history: The sultans also made an important contribution in the development of Persian literature.
history: In the west there is a widely dispersed group of oases in unconnected shallow depressions, the Kufra group, consisting of Tazerbo, Rebianae and Kufra.
history: The Turkish minority are often called "Kouloughlis" and are concentrated in and around villages and towns.
history: Its scope was the history of Damascus under the governors of the al-Azm family and their political conflicts with local and regional rivals, "marking an assertion of local, Syria-based interests and powerbrokers in the late Ottoman Empire", according to James A.
history: Although he was killed during the coup, both the CUP and Freedom and Accord claimed that they had been planning to give Minister of the Navy Nazım Pasha a position in their next cabinet.
history: Women would not go out for forty days, while men would go out unshaven after eight days.
history: According to the Legends of the Jews, God created heaven and earth for the sake of the merits of Abraham.
history: The ordinal form is tenth.
history: In December 1916, Robert Nivelle replaced Pétain as commander of French armies on the Western Front and began planning a spring attack in Champagne, part of a joint Franco-British operation.
history: 499), states sthānāt sthānaṁ daśaguṇaṁ syāt "from place to place each is ten times the preceding".
history: Upon the latter's arrival on 15 May, he took control of dealing with the outbreak along with the Health Commissioners and the Maltese doctor Gregorio Mamo.
history: Thanks to its strategic location on the trans-Saharan trade routes, Tlemcen flourished as a major political, economic, and cultural center, famous for trade in leather goods, precious metals, and slaves.
history: Although the French dismantled the Ottoman Regency of Algiers, an embryonic form of Algerian nationalism and state consciousness already existed.
history: The Islamist militants conducted a violent campaign of civilian massacres.
history: Syrian-Kurdish Intersections in the Ottoman Period.
history: Fernel and Paré suggested that the 1510 influenza "spread to almost all countries of the world" (not concerning Spain's territories in the New World).
history: In the last two centuries, usage of these became limited, though, and specific: Persian served mainly as a literary language for the educated, while Arabic was used for Islamic prayers.
history: "Goose egg" is another general slang term used for zero.
history: Harris, William (2012).
history: A large number of Christians from Bab Sharqi joined the metropolitan of the Syriac Catholics and found safety in the Greek Orthodox monastery of Saidnaya, a Christian village some 25 km from the Christian quarter.
history: Reports of the riots had made the international media, which led to international outrage.
history: In the late 19th century, the Ottoman legal system saw substantial reform.
history: Wars and military campaigns are guided by military strategy, whereas battles take place on a level of planning and execution known as operational mobility.
history: Stamoulis Ant.
history: The concept of zero plays multiple roles in mathematics: as a digit, it is an important part of positional notation for representing numbers, while it also plays an important role as a number in its own right in many algebraic settings.
history: The other Libyan territories were called "Africa", which were Roman provinces.
history: 1638)
October 19 – Christine of Hesse-Kassel, Duchess of Saxe-Eisenach and Saxe-Coburg (d.
history: After Kâmil Pasha finished writing, Enver Bey immediately left the Sublime Porte to deliver the letter to Sultan Mehmed V in his palace, driving to the palace in the Sheikh ul-Islam's (Şeyhülislam) car.
history: Both sides struggled to develop tactics for breaching entrenched positions without heavy casualties.
history: The plague spread quickly but stealthily through the large rat populations that lived off the filth.
history: The UN called on Libya's interim leaders to "expeditiously address all legal and political obstacles to hold elections, including finalising the list of presidential candidates".
history: The Ottoman state, which had begun taking on debt with the Crimean War, was forced to declare bankruptcy in 1875.
history: Adding (or subtracting) 0 to any number leaves that number unchanged; in mathematical terminology, 0 is the additive identity of the integers, rational numbers, real numbers, and complex numbers, as well as other algebraic structures.
history: 10,000 is the number of Muhammad's soldiers during the conquest of Mecca.
history: Tebboune rejects these accusations, claiming to be the victim of a witch hunt.
history: "Libya." Encyclopedia of Ancient Egypt.
history: ISBN 978-1851096589.
history: There was particular devotion to patron saints of the plague-infected such as Saint Roch and Saint Sebastian, and also to other saints including Our Lady, Saint Rosalia, Saint Nicholas and Saint Anne.
history: Likewise, vectors are often normalized into unit vectors (i.e., vectors of magnitude one), because these often have more desirable properties.
history: Montenegro allied itself with Serbia.
history: When Shibli met Ibrahim Pasha, he proposed his services as an irregular, and was accepted into Egyptian service.
history: Prior to independence, Libya was home to more than 140,000 Christians (mostly of Italian and Maltese ancestry).
history: The internationally recognised Government of National Accord established in 2015 had its own army that replaced the LNA, consisting largely of undisciplined and disorganised militia groups.
history: They sought restoration of damages, the evacuation of occupied territories, reparations for France, Russia and Romania, and a recognition of the principle of nationalities.
history: In 1510, an acute respiratory disease emerged in Asia before spreading through North Africa and Europe during the first chronicled, inter-regional flu pandemic generally recognized by medical historians and epidemiologists.
history: As of 2004, this number has increased to more than 200,000, with another 70,000 enrolled in the higher technical and vocational sector.
history: Barbary corsairs from the North African cities of Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli, which were nominally part of the Ottoman Empire, captured thousands of merchant ships and raided coastal towns in Europe, enslaving the people they captured.
history: Parliamentary elections were last held in June 2021.
history: Cosgrove, Charles H.
history: By February 1943, the last German and Italian soldiers were driven from Libya and the Allied occupation of Libya began.
history: It was a part of the Ottoman Book Arts together with the Ottoman miniature (taswir), calligraphy (hat), Islamic calligraphy, bookbinding (cilt) and paper marbling (ebru).
history: During the second Libyan civil war, lasting from 2014 to 2020, the water infrastructure suffered neglect and occasional breakdowns.
history: Russian expansion, however, presented a large and growing threat.
history: This book was later translated into Latin in the 12th century under the title Algoritmi de numero Indorum.
history: Horse racing is also a popular sport in Libya.
history: By the early 19th century, the Regency began to decline.
history: Zero divided by a negative or positive number is either zero or is expressed as a fraction with zero as numerator and the finite quantity as denominator.
history: On 7 September, soldiers marching from England's north to embark on foreign campaigns were rerouted around the city due to concerns about infection, and by the 21st at least 35 parishes were infected with the plague.
history: When the epidemic was on the decline by early 1593, its patients were transferred into a private house and the temporary hospital was closed in February.
history: doi:10.1017/S002074380006445X.
history: Local physician Thomas Lodge writes in his Treatise of the Plague that "For where the infestation most rageth, poverty reigns among the Commons..." Orders to shutter theatres were given and remained in place for nearly a year.
history: German planning provided broad strategic instructions while allowing army commanders considerable freedom in carrying them out at the front, but Alexander von Kluck used this freedom to disobey orders, opening a gap between the German armies as they closed on Paris.
history: The ayan collected taxes, formed local armies to compete with other notables, took a reactionary attitude toward political or economic change, and often defied policies handed down by the Sultan.
history: Currently, Algeria has 20,000 research professors at various universities and over 780 research labs, with state-set goals to expand to 1,000.
history: They were afterward returned to their home regions and confirmed in their tax farms.
history: Hundreds of Christians opted to leave Syria altogether, boarding ships to Malta or Alexandria.
history: After the death of Sarah, Abraham took another wife, a concubine named Keturah, and together they had six sons: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah.
history: Geopolitically, the kingdom was constantly threatened by its powerful neighbours — the Marinids of Morocco to the west and the Hafsids of Ifriqiya to the east — while also facing internal family intrigues and hostility from rival Zanata tribes.
history: In May 1801, Pasha Yusuf Karamanli demanded from the United States an increase in the tribute ($83,000) which it had paid since 1796 for the protection of their commerce and enslavement of crews by barbary pirates when the Treaty of Tripoli was signed.
history: Hydrocarbons have long been the backbone of the economy, accounting for roughly 60% of budget revenues, 30% of GDP, and 87.7% of export earnings.
history: By the end of 1914, German troops held strong defensive positions inside France, controlled the bulk of France's domestic coalfields, and inflicted 230,000 more casualties than it lost itself.
history: B&H Publishing Group.
history: 1590 but his son Musa succeeded him in Baalbek and was appointed sanjak-bey of Homs in 1592.
history: Its composition was later modified to include military officers and local elites (such as religious and political advisors).
history: This formalisation of medical training is regarded as the predecessor of the medical school of the University of Malta.
history: In December 1991 the Islamic Salvation Front dominated the first of two rounds of legislative elections.
history: He began dominating history and politics of Libya for the next four decades.
history: When one of Nazım Pasha's relatives assassinated him in revenge in June 1913, the CUP used the opportunity to crack down on the opposition.
history: Classical Arabic literature called Libya Lubya, indicating a speculative territory west of Egypt.
history: In Taoism, the "10,000 Things" is a term meaning all of phenomenal reality.
history: Ottoman classical music arose largely from a confluence of Byzantine music, Armenian music, Arabic music, and Persian music.
history: While overthrowing the regimes in Egypt and Tunisia was a relatively quick process, Gaddafi's campaign posed significant stalls on the uprising in Libya.
history: Today, estimates of the Christian population range from 100,000 to 200,000.
history: By 300 BC, a punctuation symbol (two slanted wedges) was repurposed as a placeholder.
history: Death did not take place till the 9th or 14th day." He further observed that the flu was very dangerous to pregnant women, killing at least eight such citizens in Alkmaar who contracted it.
history: During the more than four years since, Kâmil Pasha had made a series of efforts to keep CUP members far from government and keep the army, which had many CUP members among its ranks, out of politics.
history: Ibrahim Pasha was appointed to "rectify the situation" in the Levant in 1583 and launched the expedition against the Druze of Mount Lebanon in the summer of 1585 as a Porte-ordered diversion for his Constantinople-bound caravan.
history: The Lokavibhāga, a Jain text on cosmology surviving in a medieval Sanskrit translation of the Prakrit original, which is internally dated to AD 458 (Saka era 380), uses a decimal place-value system, including a zero.
history: From 1912 to 1927, the territory of Libya was known as Italian North Africa.
history: Arabs and indigenous Berbers as well as Phoenicians, Romans, Vandals, Byzantine Greeks, Turks, various Sub-Saharan Africans, and French have contributed to the history and culture of Algeria.
history: A pious queen, Elizabeth also wrote to Thomas Young, the Archbishop of York, to recommend universal prayer and fasting for hastening "remedy and mitigation" of the plague in her realm.
history: The Berber tribes of the hinterland accepted Islam, however they resisted Arab political rule.
history: Before the war, Germany had attempted to use Indian nationalism and pan-Islamism to its advantage, a policy continued post-1914 by instigating uprisings in India, while the Niedermayer–Hentig Expedition urged Afghanistan to join the war on the side of Central Powers.
history: The Divan, in the years when the Ottoman state was still a Beylik, was composed of the elders of the tribe.
history: Justin McCarthy estimates that from 1821 to 1922, 5.5 million Muslims died in southeastern Europe, with the expulsion of 5 million.
history: The Druze experienced twice as many casualties as the Christians, but ultimately forced the Christians to retreat to Zahle.
history: Enver would enter the empire into World War I that same year as part of the Central Powers, on the side of Germany, in contrast to the overthrown Kâmil Pasha, who was partial towards the British.
history: The Imperial government protected them and prevented major violent clashes between ethnic groups.
history: The Legends of the Jews (PDF).
history: Libya had long been a notoriously difficult country for Western tourists to visit due to stringent visa requirements.
history: Before the flu epidemic, England had suffered from a poor harvest and widespread famine that medical historian Thomas Short believed made the epidemic more deadly.
history: Jefferson, confident in the ability of the new United States Navy to protect American shipping, refused the Pasha's demands, leading the Pasha to unofficially declare war, in May 1801, by chopping down the flagpole before the American consulate.
history: The empire's Christian population, owing to their higher educational levels, started to pull ahead of the Muslim majority, leading to much resentment.
history: This period also saw Augustine of Hippo, Nonius Marcellus and Martianus Capella.
history: Some records of the plague were copied by John Stow during his own research in the 17th century and have survived time despite the original documents being lost.
history: In philosophy, the number 1 is commonly regarded as a symbol of unity, often representing God or the universe in monotheistic traditions.
history: Algeria held elections in 1999, considered biased by international observers and most opposition groups which were won by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.
history: In the 14th century, the Banu Thabit dynasty ruled Tripolitania before reverting to direct Hafsid control.
history: These findings support the hypothesis that seventeenth-century plagues played a fundamental role in triggering the process of relative decline of the Italian economies."
history: After Janbirdi declared himself sultan following Selim's death in 1520, the Ottomans stamped out his revolt and began to incorporate the Levant more firmly into the empire's structures.
history: Pershing, a proponent of pre-1914 "open warfare" who considered the French and British emphasis on artillery misguided and incompatible with American "offensive spirit".
history: The fennec fox is the national animal of Algeria.
history: In May 2012, an estimated 35,000 personnel had joined its ranks.
history: It occurred in three waves between June 1592 and September 1593, during the second plague pandemic, and it resulted in approximately 3000 deaths, which amounted to about 11% of the population.
history: Among the important novelists of the 1980s were Rachid Mimouni, later vice-president of Amnesty International, and Tahar Djaout, murdered by an Islamist group in 1993 for his secularist views.
history: The presence of other digits, indicating that the string contains only numbers, avoids confusion with the letter O.
history: Libya's previous national army was defeated in the First Libyan Civil War and disbanded.
history: He also considered Dutch neutrality essential for German trade and cancelled the incursion into the Netherlands, which meant any delays in Belgium threatened the viability of the plan.
history: The poor generally receive healthcare free of charge.
history: Italian socialists were divided on whether to support the war or oppose it; some were militant supporters of the war, including Benito Mussolini and Leonida Bissolati.
history: The war had precipitated an influx of Christian refugees to Damascus, mostly women and children and smaller numbers of adult males, from Hasbaya and Rashaya.
history: All inhabitants had either died or fled from the violence towards the city's citadel.
history: The Ottoman army continued to be an effective fighting force throughout the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, falling behind the empire's European rivals only during a long period of peace from 1740 to 1768.
history: It prospered through trans-Saharan trade.
history: His first act as ruler is to have Pari Khan Khanum strangled to death.
history: Irregular troops took the lead and priority in the plunder and they were followed by others in the mob.
history: In May 1854, Greek insurgents under Theodoros Ziakas inflicted a serious defeat on the Ottoman army at Karpero.
history: Hendel, Ronald S (2000).
history: The French conquests of Nice (1543) and Corsica (1553) occurred as a joint venture between French king Francis I and Suleiman, and were commanded by the Ottoman admirals Hayreddin Barbarossa and Dragut.
history: Prior to independence, Algeria was home to more than 1.3 million Christians (mostly of European ancestry).
history: From there the party travelled to the Negev, or to the south.
history: National World War I Museum and Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri, is a memorial dedicated to all Americans who served in World War I.
history: The country has a taboo surrounding abortion and lacks safe abortion guidelines.
history: In addition to a mosque, these could include a madrasa, a hammam, an imaret, a sebil, a market, a caravanserai, a primary school, or others.
history: Many of these publications were centred in Constantinople, but there were also French-language newspapers produced in Beirut, Salonika, and Smyrna.
history: He named them as the Nizam-ı Cedid (New Order).
history: The feminine equivalent title was begum.
history: He launched an offensive against the Russians in the Caucasus in December 1914 with 100,000 troops, insisting on a frontal attack against mountainous Russian positions in winter.
history: However, the observatory's primary purpose was almost certainly astrological rather than astronomical, leading to its destruction in 1580 due to the rise of a clerical faction that opposed its use for that purpose.
history: The Pythagoreans considered the numbers to be plural and therefore did not classify 1 itself as a number, but as the origin of all numbers.
history: The United States suggested a trusteeship for the whole country under control of the United Nations (UN), whose charter had become effective in October 1945, to prepare it for self-government.
history: Bey or a variation has also been used as an aristocratic title in various Turkic states, such as Bäk in the Tatar Khanate of Kazan, in charge of a Beylik called Bäklek.
history: It was initially established as an Ottoman province ruled by a pasha (governor) in Tripoli who was appointed from Constantinople, though in practice it was semi-autonomous due to the power of the local Janissaries.
history: Nevertheless, Cyrenaica between 1995 and 1998 was politically unstable, due to the tribal allegiances of the local troops.
history: Abraham then prayed for Abimelech and his household, since God had stricken the women with infertility because of the taking of Sarah.
history: The mass demonstrations resulted in a crisis for the Russian Provisional Government.
history: Arriving aboard infected sailors from Sicily, influenza struck the Kingdom of France through the ports of Marseille and Nice and spread through the international crowds of the shipyards.
history: After persuading the Ottomans to recognize him as governor, Ahmed established himself as ruler and made his post hereditary.
history: Ottomans adopted Persian bureaucratic traditions and culture.
history: In practice, the terms "Lebanon" and "Mount Lebanon" tended to be used interchangeably by historians until the formal establishment of the post-World War I Mandate of Lebanon.
history: Chaos-ridden Libya emerged as a major transit point for people trying to reach Europe.
history: The most significant factor in creating the support Wilson needed was the German submarine offensive, which not only cost American lives but paralysed trade as ships were reluctant to put to sea.
history: Mehmed allowed the Eastern Orthodox Church to maintain its autonomy and land in exchange for accepting Ottoman authority.
history: At this time Yakub Cemil, approaching Nazım Pasha from the back while he was engaged with Enver Bey and the rest of the coup party, fired his gun at Nazım Pasha's right temple, killing him.
history: ISSN 1742-4755.
history: Sanitary Commissioners isolated people who had been infected and those who came in contact with them on Bishop's Island in Marsamxett Harbour.
history: On 30 August 2024, the Tripoli-based Government of National Unity sent armed militants to remove CBL governor Sadiq al-Kabir from his office, accusing him of "mishandling oil revenues".
history: These pose significant threats to Libya's agriculture, food and water security and economic development and sustainability.
history: Fig, eucalyptus, agave, and various palm trees grow in the warmer areas.
history: Algeria's government has been described as authoritarian, and elected politicians have relatively little sway over affairs in the country.
history: 1012 square kilometres is almost 2,000 times the Earth's total surface area.
history: However, public attitudes towards theatergoing and actors soured as these venues became associated with the epidemic.
history: 1510)
February 12 – Catherine of Austria, Queen of Portugal (b.
history: Agricultural was the cornerstone of the 1981-85 development plan, attaching high priority to funding the GMMR project, designed to bring water from aquifers in Sarir and Kufra.
history: In 1402, the Byzantines were temporarily relieved when the Turco-Mongol leader Timur, founder of the Timurid Empire, invaded Ottoman Anatolia from the east.
history: Also, 0 is a standard way to refer to a null pointer in code.
history: In the summer of 1917, a Central Powers offensive began in Romania under the command of August von Mackensen to knock Romania out of the war, resulting in the battles of Oituz, Mărăști and Mărășești, where up to 1,000,000 Central Powers troops were present.
history: 1012 square feet is larger than the total area of Portugal.
history: Relations with the West were strained for most of Gaddafi's rule, with incidents including the killing of London policewoman Yvonne Fletcher, the bombing of a West Berlin nightclub frequented by U.S.
history: In western Algeria, Emir Abdelkader organized a real state and led fierce resistance against the French, notably at the Battle of Macta (1835).
history: The advantage of superior numbers was offset by the difficult terrain; much of the fighting took place high in the Alps and Dolomites, where trench lines had to be cut through rock and ice and keeping troops supplied was a major challenge.
history: Abraham can sometimes be identified by the context of the image –  the meeting with Melchizedek, the three visitors, or the sacrifice of Isaac.
history: The International Religious Freedom Report 2004 noted that "bishops, priests and nuns wear religious dress freely in public and report virtually no discrimination," while also "enjoying good relations with the Government".
history: To this end, Mehmed and his successor Bayezid, also encouraged and welcomed migration of the Jews from different parts of Europe, who were settled in Istanbul and other port cities like Salonica.
history: Weight: A million 80-milligram (1.2 gr) honey bees would weigh the same as an 80 kg (180 lb) person.
history: Around 25–31% of Russian losses (as a proportion of those captured, wounded, or killed) were to prisoner status; for Austria-Hungary 32%; for Italy 26%; for France 12%; for Germany 9%; for Britain 7%.
history: When news of London's plague subsiding reached the countryside, opportunistic traders quickly moved from rural areas to London to fill in the void left by those who'd deceased or fled.
history: Centuries of large-scale Arab migration to the Maghreb since the 7th century shifted the demographics of Libya in favour of Arabs.
history: The British and French opened overseas fronts with the Gallipoli (1915) and Mesopotamian campaigns (1914).
history: When God informed the angels that he would place a Caliph (translated to vicegerent, deputy, successor,...
history: People have been arrested on suspicion of being Christian missionaries, as proselytising is illegal.
history: The Druze assaulted the government house and murdered the men inside, including priests.
history: The Christians of Hasbaya, along with 150 Christian refugees from Qaraoun, had taken shelter in the government house on 3 June.
history: If I have perchance omitted anything more or less proper or necessary, I beg indulgence, since there is no one who is blameless and utterly provident in all things.
history: 9,999,800,001 = 999992, the largest ten-digit square.
history: Ethnic nationalism, based on distinctive religion and language, provided a centripetal force that eventually destroyed the Ottoman Empire.
history: The city of Venice was severely hit, with recorded casualties of 46,000 out of a population of 140,000.
history: The Shihab emirs of Rashaya, with the exception of two, were slain.
history: From 1617 onward, pirate raids targeted the northwest of Spain (Galicia), prompting the formation of a Spanish fleet around 1621 to defend against Barbary corsairs and the Dutch, albeit with limited success.
history: In 1793, Ottoman officer Ali Burghul intervened, deposed Hamet and briefly restored Tripolitania to Ottoman rule.
history: In Urbino, Venetian court poet Bernardo Tasso, his son Torquato, and the occupants of a monastery fell sick "from hand to hand" with influenza for four to five days.
history: Further defeats from Austria and Russia culminated in the loss of territory, and with rising nationalism after the French Revolution, a number of new states emerged in the Balkans.
history: In protest against the Dbeibah government, tribal leaders from the desert town of Ubari shut down the El Sharara oil field, Libya's largest oil field, on 18 April 2022.
history: These competing interests divided Russian policy-makers and added to regional instability.
history: Meanwhile, the Holy League consisting of mostly Spanish and Venetian fleets won a victory over the Ottoman fleet at the Battle of Lepanto (1571), off southwestern Greece; Catholic forces killed over 30,000 Turks and destroyed 200 of their ships.
history: Early the next morning, Abraham went to the place where he stood before God.
history: A number of niches and churches were built to give thanks by survivors of the plague, including the Sarria Church in Floriana, which was rebuilt by the Order after a vow made during the epidemic.
history: The politicians elected to lead the interim government initially agreed not to stand in the national elections scheduled for 24 December 2021.
history: At 1,770 kilometres (1,100 mi), Libya's coastline is the longest of any African country bordering the Mediterranean.
history: Jason Aronson.
history: A descendant family with the same name still exists in modern Tripoli-Libya.
history: Although their attack on Galicia was largely successful, and the invasions achieved their aim of forcing Germany to divert troops from the Western Front, the speed of mobilisation meant they did so without much of their heavy equipment and support functions.
history: In 1830, the French invaded the Deylik of Algiers.
history: During the shooting, a secret police agent and an attendant of the Sheikh ul-Islam were also killed.
history: With the discovery of oil in the 1950s also came the discovery of a massive aquifer underneath much of Libya.
history: October 21 – Battle of Wenden: The Russians are defeated by the Swedes, who proceed to take Polotsk.
history: German medical writer Justus Hecker suggested the 1510 influenza most likely came from Asia because of the historical nature of other influenzas to originate there in more recent pandemics.
history: Many Christians stayed home during this time and avoided visits to public places, relinquished rights to monetary debts owed them by Muslims and did not attend their jobs during the Eid festivities, bringing the local government to a standstill as most government clerks in the city were Christians.
history: On 24 February 2011, the government lifted Algeria's 19-year-old state of emergency.
history: Sonam Gyrso receives from Prince Atlan Khan the title of Talaï, and becomes the third Dalai Lama of Tibet.
history: There are about 140 tribes and clans in Libya.
history: After Russia mobilised in Serbia's defence, Germany declared war on Russia and France, who had an alliance.
history: In March 2020, Prime Minister of the GNA Fayez Al-Sarraj commenced Operation Peace Storm.
history: Sarai then offered her Egyptian slave, Hagar, to Abram with the intention that she would bear him a son.
history: These reforms were based heavily on French models, as indicated by the adoption of a three-tiered court system.
history: 29 (2): 161–184.
history: One of the visitors told Abraham that upon his return next year, Sarah would have a son.
history: The determiner has two senses: numerical one (I have one apple) and singulative one (one day I'll do it).
history: The assassination of Hasan Bey in June 1790 by 'Ali's youngest son Yusuf Karamanli triggered a war of succession between Yusuf and Hamet Karamanli ('Ali's middle son, whom he appointed as bey after Hasan's death).
history: According to the constitution, no political association may be formed if it is "based on differences in religion, language, race, gender, profession, or region".
history: However, while a large part of oil wealth was spent on imported food this was not necessarily disturbing.
history: Twelve men held responsible by the CUP for Mahmud Shevket Pasha's death, including Nazım Pasha's relative, were convicted for murder and hanged.
history: The Army of the Ten Thousand were a group of Ancient Greek mercenaries who marched against Artaxerxes II of Persia.
history: The bonds, the agreement, still exist." Thus, following the Second World War, at the London Conference in 1953, Germany agreed to resume payment on the money borrowed.
history: Doctor John Jones, a prominent 16th Century London physician, refers in his book Dyall of Agues to a "great sweat" during the reign of Mary I of England.
history: SpaceX's market capitalization reached $2 trillion in 2026.
history: The discovery of new maritime trade routes by Western European states allowed them to avoid the Ottoman trade monopoly.
history: In 1835, the Ottomans reestablished direct control over the region until its annexation by Italy in 1912.
history: The nahiyas of the Matn, the Jurd, the Gharb and the Chouf were predominantly inhabited by Druze, followers of an 11th-century offshoot of Isma'ili Shia Islam.
history: Menelaus had travelled there on his way home from Troy; it was a land of wonderful richness, where the lambs have horns as soon as they are born, where ewes lamb three times a year and no shepherd ever goes short of milk, meat or cheese.
history: On 21 November 1949, the UN General Assembly passed a resolution stating that Libya should become independent before 1 January 1952.
history: In 1958, agriculture supplied over 26% of GDP.
history: A battle always has as its purpose the reaching of a mission goal by use of military force.
history: Hardy's novel Father Abraham (1935) tells the fictionalized life story of Abraham.
history: The general rule is that the honorific is used with first names and not with surnames or last names.
history: Its zawaaya (lodges) were found in Tripolitania and Fezzan, but Senussi influence was strongest in Cyrenaica.
history: One significant difference of modern naval battles, as opposed to earlier forms of combat is the use of marines, which introduced amphibious warfare.
history: By keeping his left-wing deliberately weak, he hoped to lure the French into an offensive into the "lost provinces" of Alsace-Lorraine, which was the strategy envisaged by their Plan XVII.
history: After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the area of Libya was mostly occupied by the Vandals until the 7th century when invasions brought Islam to the region.
history: That month, Germany launched a spring offensive in the west, which despite initial successes left the German Army exhausted and demoralised.
history: 3,405,697,037 = CAFED00D16; used as a magic debug value in programming.
history: The use of chemical weapons had been sanctioned by the German High Command to force Allied soldiers out of their entrenched positions, complementing rather than supplanting more lethal conventional weapons.
history: 1610)
April 1 – William Harvey, English physician (d.
history: The Great Man-Made River is the world's largest irrigation project.
history: Shahin feared antagonizing the Ottoman authorities and did not respond to the appeal, while al-Shantiri preferred to wait and assess any moves made by Shahin or Karam first.
history: Druze armed with long muskets attacked officials sent to collect the taxes from their sub-districts and repulsed the subsequent Ottoman raid against them at Ain Dara in 1565.
history: On 10 November 1444, Murad repelled the Crusade of Varna by defeating the Hungarian, Polish, and Wallachian armies under Władysław III of Poland and John Hunyadi at the Battle of Varna, although Albanians under Skanderbeg continued to resist.
history: Since then, 1.3 million people are waiting for emergency humanitarian aid, out of a total population of 7.1 million.
history: Patchy sanitation by city authorities and an abundance of organic litter in the impoverished neighborhoods fueled a large rat population within the city walls, where one-third of London lived.
history: God blesses mankind, commands them to "be fruitful and multiply", and gives them "dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth".
history: They will be forced to turn back six months later.
history: Reilly and Elyse Semerdjian.
history: 1524)
Louis I, Cardinal of Guise, French cardinal (b.
history: According to the historian Leila Terazi Fawaz, the initial acts were "random and unpredictable enough to seem more the acts of lawless men than a calculated war against other sects, especially since banditry was always part of the objective".
history: Doughty is beheaded on July 2.
history: After the capture of Salonica (Thessaloniki), the birthplace of many progressive political leaders and movements of the era, by Greece in November 1912, many CUP members were arrested by Greek forces and exiled to Anatolia.
history: Archived from the original (PDF) on 2020-06-05.
history: The Qur'an states that all the prophets preached the same faith of submission to God.
history: Following the Vardar Offensive, Bulgaria signed an armistice in late September.
history: Numerous nations regained their former independence, and new ones were created.
history: The Zayyanids generally used the title of emir, though some adopted shaykh or khalifa.
history: (The Battle of Preston (1648), the Battle of Nations (1813) and the Battle of Gettysburg (1863) were exceptional in lasting three days.) This was mainly due to the difficulty of supplying armies in the field or conducting night operations.
history: A few were arrested, shackled and sent to the Christian quarter with brooms to sweep the streets.
history: Gaddafi merged civil and sharia courts in 1973.
history: The Sicilian Senate asked a well-known Palermitan physician named Giovanni Filippo Ingrassia to help combat the epidemic in an advisory capacity, which he accepted.
history: Algeria has a long history in other sports such as athletics, boxing, volleyball, handball and the study of martial arts.
history: Tensions between the Druze and the Porte rose considerably as the Druze, along with other tribal and sectarian groups in Syria, acquired firearms which were at times superior to the firearms used by the Ottoman armies.
history: Until the second half of the 15th century, the majority of Ottoman subjects were Christian.
history: Accompanied by Abraham, the visitors walked over to the peak that overlooked the "cities of the plain" to discuss the fate of Sodom and Gomorrah for their detestable sins that were so great, they moved God to action.
history: There was a high incidence of random and hostile acts against Christians, particularly refugees, by Muslims.
history: Historically, the area of Libya was considered three provinces (or states), Tripolitania in the northwest, Barka (Cyrenaica) in the east, and Fezzan in the southwest.
history: Algerian citizens who are Christians predominantly belong to Protestant denominations, which have seen increased pressure from the government in recent years including many forced closures.
history: Further, Abimelech gave Abraham a thousand pieces of silver to serve as Sarah's vindication before all.
history: 1784, in office 1826–1848, d.
history: The term milliard could also be used to refer to 1,000,000,000; whereas "milliard" is rarely used in English, variations on this name often appear in other languages.
history: Under the Treaty of Versailles, Germany lost significant territories, was disarmed, and was required to pay large war reparations to the Allies.
history: August 20–September 6 – After renaming this flagship, Pelican to the Golden Hind, Francis Drake and his fleet begin their passage through the Strait of Magellan.
history: The Ottoman state tended not to interfere with non-Muslim religious law systems, despite legally having a voice to do so through local governors.
history: On 10 September 2023, catastrophic floods due to dam failures generated by Storm Daniel devastated the port city of Derna, killing more than 5,900 and possibly as many as 24,000.
history: It persuaded Druze leaders to negotiate peace with Ibrahim Pasha.
history: Prison sentences are enforced.
history: Many Arabic speaking Libyans consider themselves as part of a wider Arab community.
history: Modern Algerian literature, split between Arabic, Tamazight and French, has been strongly influenced by the country's recent history.
history: Since the eight earliest Long Count dates appear outside the Maya homeland, it is generally believed that the use of zero in the Americas predated the Maya and was possibly the invention of the Olmecs.
history: The second half of the 16th century also saw the apogee of some types of decoration, most notably in the production of Iznik tiles.
history: Mohammed Khadda and M'hamed Issiakhem have been notable in recent years.
history: Words that derive their meaning from one include alone, which signifies all one in the sense of being by oneself, none meaning not one, once denoting one time, and atone meaning to become at one with the someone.
history: Epidemics and Pandemics: Their Impacts on Human History.
history: These events marked the beginning of a recurring pattern where the Sublime Porte needed the help of foreign powers to protect itself.
history: Historians have described the Regency as a "military republic", combining Ottoman administrative institutions with local political traditions inherited from medieval North African states.
history: Several Christians were murdered before the Druze force withdrew after a meeting with the Ottoman authorities at Ziltatiat.
history: After the Franco-Prussian War, the Third Republic firmly established settler dominance, reinforced by figures like Eugène Étienne.
history: This decision was driven by German concerns over the speed of Russia's recovery from defeat in the Russo-Japanese War and the subsequent 1905 Russian Revolution.
history: The most common representative glyph used in the modern Western world for the number 1 is the Arabic numeral, a vertical line, often with a serif at the top and sometimes a short horizontal line at the bottom.
history: The Ottoman Eastern Mediterranean was the scene of intense piracy.
history: "Abortion, Islam, and the 1994 Cairo Population Conference".
history: It also controlled parts of southeastern Central Europe between the early 16th and early 18th centuries.
history: Three suzerain states – the Principality of Serbia, Wallachia and Moldavia – moved towards de jure independence during the 1860s and 1870s.
history: Around the end of May, Christians reported to the European consuls that killings of their co-religionists occurred in the districts of Beqaa, Arqub and Gharb.
history: The Portuguese discovery of the Cape of Good Hope in 1488 initiated a series of Ottoman-Portuguese naval wars in the Indian Ocean throughout the 16th century.
history: The empire's First Constitutional era was short-lived.
history: The exodus to mainland France accelerated after the Oran massacre of 1962, in which many Europeans were murdered as reprisal for OAS terror attacks.
history: Most Algerians identify as Arabs, while Berbers form a sizeable minority.
history: The disease first spread to Venetian troops and in October 1629 reached Milan, Lombardy's major commercial centre.
history: Government orders forbidding performances at theatres were again extended, into 1593.
history: However, the pro-German King Constantine I dismissed the pro-Allied government of Eleftherios Venizelos before the Allied expeditionary force arrived.
history: This article incorporates public domain material from U.S.
history: A drama in three acts.
history: In 1858, Tanyus Shahin, a Maronite Christian peasant leader, demanded for the feudal class to abolish its privileges.
history: The Venetian defenders held out for 11 months against a force that at its peak numbered 200,000 men with 145 cannons; 163,000 cannonballs struck the walls of Famagusta before it fell to the Ottomans in August 1571.
history: The corsairs were not solely natives of the cities where they were based; while many were Arabs and Berbers, there were also Turks, Greeks, Albanians, Syrians, and renegade Italians, especially Corsicans, among their number.
history: The Ottoman bashi-bazouks suppressed the Bulgarian uprising of 1876, massacring up to 100,000 people in the process.
history: The Druze tribesmen of southern Mount Lebanon proved challenging for the authorities to pacify, and a provincial law code from Sultan Suleiman's reign (1520–1566) referenced them as a "misguided folk where each follows his own cult" and from whom tax collection was difficult.
history: Dijkstra: Why numbering should start at zero, EWD831 (PDF of a handwritten manuscript)
Zero on In Our Time at the BBC
Weisstein, Eric W.
history: The country does not have abortion care guidelines.
history: In 1839, the Ottoman Empire issued the Gülhane decree, thereby launching the Tanzimat reforms that promised equality for all subjects.
history: As the Rum Sultanate declined in the 13th century, Anatolia was divided into a patchwork of independent Turkish principalities known as the Anatolian Beyliks.
history: $10,000 note depicts a picture of Salmon P.
history: Meanwhile, fighting between Druzes and Christians had broken out in nearby Shebaa, prompting Uthman Bey to intervene in the village and then confer with Druze sheikhs in Marj Shwaya ostensibly to gain assurances from them that they would cease hostilities.
history: Abraham is revered in all other Abrahamic religions, such as the Baháʼí Faith and the Druze faith.
history: A captain of local irregulars, Salim Agha al-Mahayani, may have led the initial crowds to the Christian quarter.
history: Libya so remained united.
history: Hunger likely contributed to a higher death toll, as the authorities had been struggling to provide food to the needy amid a severe bread shortage during the summer.
history: ISSN 0968-5332.
history: Fighting the Plague in Seventeenth Century Italy.
history: A decisive battle can change the balance of power or boundaries between countries.
history: By 1914, less than a fifth of the empire's population (19.1%) was non-Muslim, mostly made up of Jews and Christian Greeks, Assyrians, and Armenians.
history: This makes the iPhone one of the most successful product lines in history, surpassing the PlayStation and the Rubik's Cube.
history: During the 1655 outbreak, contact between Malta and Sicily was limited due to restrictions imposed by the Viceroy of Sicily.
history: In 1914, cannons were positioned in the front line and fired directly at their targets.
history: Most physicians of the time subscribed to the theory of humorism, and believed the cosmos or climate directly affected the health of entire communities.
history: Some battle-survivors have nightmares about the conditions they encountered or abnormal reactions to certain sights or sounds and some experience flashbacks.
history: Measuring sound intensity in decibels or phons, the zero level is arbitrarily set at a reference value—for example, at a value for the threshold of hearing.
history: In 1514, Sultan Selim I ordered the massacre of 40,000 Anatolian Alevis (Qizilbash), whom he considered a fifth column for the rival Safavid Empire.
history: Islamic tradition considers Abraham the first "pioneer of Islam" (which is also called millat ʾIbrāhīm, the 'religion of Abraham'), and that his purpose and mission throughout his life was to proclaim the oneness of God.
history: Computer programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more intelligible to humans than the binary instructions that are directly executed by the central processing unit.
history: Salibi, Kamal (June 1967).
history: According to Fawaz, the ceasefire negotiated between by the Druze sheikhs and the authorities marked the "end to the most violent phase of the civil war" in Mount Lebanon.
history: Libya was one of the first ten countries to sign the Maputo Protocol, which includes a right to abortion.
history: Military expeditions into the central Sahara helped to secure the trade routes in 1816.
history: But the most striking features of scarlet fever and diphtheria, like rashes or pseudomembranes, remain unmentioned by any of the 1557 pandemic's observers and the first recognized whooping cough epidemic is a localized outbreak in Paris from 1578.
history: This measure targeted tribes in the Jebel Akhdar claiming large land tracts.
history: European consuls who witnessed the killings or their aftermath reported that many women were assaulted as well in an unprecedented manner.
history: Discontent and the weaknesses of the Provisional Government led to a rise in the popularity of the Bolshevik Party, led by Lenin, which demanded an immediate end to the war.
history: In the west, Ghat was attached to the French military region of southern Algeria and Ghadamis to the French command of southern Tunisia--giving rise to Libyan nationalist fears that French intentions might include the ultimate detachment of Fezzan from Libya.
history: Early results of the vote showed the National Forces Alliance, led by former interim prime minister Mahmoud Jibril, as front runner.
history: The Almoravids' successors were the Almohads (Al-Muwahhidun), meaning "Unitarians"; a reformist movement founded by Muhammad ibn Tumart, a Masmuda Berber who proclaimed himself the Mahdi.
history: Algerian athletes have competed in the Olympic Games and have won medals in various events.
history: For the year 2015, 80% of the forest area was reported to be under public ownership, 18% private ownership and 2% with ownership listed as other or unknown.
history: John, wrote in a despatch to Mary I of England about a highly-contagious illness afflicting more than half the people of Southampton, the Isle of Wight, and Portsmouth (places where Lord St.
history: Peter's Basilica) in the Vatican.
history: On 11 May, Christians from Katuli murdered two Druzes at the Nahr al-Assal River, and three days later, two Druzes from Chouf were murdered near Sidon.
history: 39,916,801 = Factorial prime
history: Eight million equines, mostly horses, donkeys and mules died, three-quarters of them from the extreme conditions they worked in.
history: German and Austro-Hungarian diplomats scored a coup by persuading Bulgaria to join the attack on Serbia.
history: Teaching World War I has presented special challenges.
history: After 1919, the US demanded repayment of these loans.
history: In June 1914 a new military academy, the Naval Aviation School (Bahriye Tayyare Mektebi) was founded.
history: The World Bank defines Libya as an 'Upper Middle Income Economy', along with only seven other African countries.
history: Once the German ultimatum to Russia expired on the morning of 1 August, the two countries were at war.
history: ISBN 978-0-8108-6836-6.
history: The highest position in Islam, caliph, was claimed by the sultans starting with Selim I, which was established as the Ottoman Caliphate.
history: Most notably, radical Islamist fighters seized Derna in 2014 and Sirte in 2015 in the name of the Islamic State.
history: In total, there are 586,081 prime numbers between 1,000,000 and 10,000,000.
history: Yazidis regard Adam and Eve as the ancestors of most of humanity while they believe that Yazidis are descendents of Adam alone, tracing this story to Gnostic Christianity.
history: Collection: California.
history: He remains Algeria's greatest national hero, and his struggle deeply inspired future Algerian nationalism.
history: Abram went south to Hebron and settled in the plain of Mamre, where he built another altar to worship God.
history: Common names for the number 0 in English include zero, nought, naught (), and nil.
history: In the Indian numbering system, it is known as 100 crore or 1 arab.
history: Abram declined to accept anything other than the share to which his allies were entitled.
history: For example, by definition 1 is the probability of an event that is absolutely or almost certain to occur.
history: The 1860 civil conflict in Mount Lebanon and Damascus, also known as the 1860 Christian–Druze war, was a civil conflict in Mount Lebanon during Ottoman rule in 1860–1861 fought mainly between the local Druze and Christians.
history: The conquest by Italy in the Italo-Turkish War united them into a single political unit.
history: 62,090 primes between 9,000,000 and 10,000,000.
history: Two trans-African automobile routes pass through Libya, the Cairo–Dakar Highway and Tripoli–Cape Town Highway.
history: The successful Turkish War of Independence, led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk against the occupying Allies, led to the end of the Ottoman sultanate in 1922.
history: Access to biocapacity in Algeria is lower than world average.
history: In orders of magnitude (speed), the speed of a fast neutron is 10000 km/s.
history: Cipolla, Carlo M.
history: As a result, Hungary lost 64% of its total population, decreasing from 20.9 million to 7.6 million, and losing 31% (3.3 out of 10.7 million) of its ethnic Hungarians.
history: In sports,
In athletics, 10,000 meters, 10 kilometers, 10 km, or 10K (6.2 miles) is the final standard track event in a long-distance track event and a distance in other racing events such as running, cycling, and skiing.
history: In early July, Ahmad Pasha had 14 cannons installed at the Citadel of Damascus and a cannon installed at the gate of the Umayyad Mosque and other mosques during Friday prayer as a means of deterrence.
history: The two primary streams of Ottoman written literature are poetry and prose.
history: Many combats are too small to be battles; terms such as "action", "affair", "skirmish", "firefight", "raid", or "offensive patrol" are used to describe small military encounters.
history: During the epidemic, the deceased were usually not buried in churches as was common practice at the time.
history: For the simple notion of lacking, the words "nothing" (although this is not accurate) and "none" are often used.
history: The Balkar princes in the North Caucasus highlands were known as taubiy (taubey), meaning the "mountainous chief".
history: 10 is the smallest noncototient number.
history: 1835) and Tannus al-Shidyaq (d.
history: It was Augustine who took this step, locating sin itself in male semen: when Adam and Eve ate of the fruit they were ashamed and covered their genitals, identifying the place from which the first sin was passed on to all succeeding generations.
history: Algeria has 26 universities and 67 institutions of higher education, which must accommodate a million Algerians and 80,000 foreign students in 2008.
history: According to this Christian legend, current in the time of Origen (early 3rd century CE), the holy blood of Christ trickled down and restored to life the father of the human race, who then led the saints who appeared to many in Jerusalem on that day as described in Scripture.
history: The works of the Sanusi family in pre-colonial times, and of Emir Abdelkader and Sheikh Ben Badis in colonial times, are widely noted.
history: With the development of military aircraft during World War II, battles were fought in the sky as well as below the ocean.
history: Because of this sworn oath, they called the place of this well Beersheba.
history: A predominantly Bosniak special militia known as the Schutzkorps was established, and carried out the persecution of Serbs.
history: In the latter city, the Ottoman governor Umar Pasha appeared keen to maintain order, but his garrison was too small to ensure security in the city.
history: The role of 0 as additive identity generalizes beyond elementary algebra.
history: Composed of members of the various religious communities, the councils were intended to assist the deputy governor.
history: This means they use just under 4.5 times as much biocapacity as Algeria contains.
history: Algeria emerged as a bilingual state after 1962.
history: Vigilant health authorities isolated the infected on Swinburne Island, built in the nineteenth century as a quarantine facility.
history: In 525 BC the Persian army of Cambyses II overran Cyrenaica, which for the next two centuries remained under Persian or Egyptian rule.
history: Texts on Wikisource:
"Zero".
history: The Devshirme falls within modern definitions of genocide.
history: Thanks to strong hydrocarbon revenues, Algeria has a cushion of $173 billion in foreign currency reserves and a large hydrocarbon stabilization fund.
history: The new name denotes a new stage in Abraham's life.
history: Suleiman died of natural causes during the siege of Szigetvár in 1566.
history: There can be confusion between 0- and 1-based indexing; for example, Java's JDBC indexes parameters from 1 although Java itself uses 0-based indexing.
history: 1299–1453) ===
history: As a numerical digit, 0 plays a crucial role in decimal notation: it indicates that the power of ten corresponding to the place containing a 0 does not contribute to the total.
history: However, after using the Babylonian placeholder zero for astronomical calculations they would typically convert the numbers back into Greek numerals.
history: Influenza spread out from the Holy Roman Empire towards Northern Europe, the Baltic states, and west towards France and England.
history: The Eastern Orthodox Church commemorates him as the "Righteous Forefather Abraham", with two feast days in its liturgical calendar.
history: Mathews, K.
history: Hassan recaptured and destroyed Carthage in 697 after fierce fighting against Byzantine reinforcements.
history: The government has encouraged fishing and attempted to stimulate demand.
history: Along the way, Isaac asked his father where the animal for the burnt offering was, to which Abraham replied "God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering".
history: Throughout Ottoman history, there were many instances in which local governors acted independently, and even in opposition to the ruler.
history: These people believed not in one God but in many gods, to whom they ascribed miracles, and hence they all rose up against Abraham.
history: Abram married Sarah (Sarai) but, unlike Nahor and his wife Milcah, they were childless.
history: The Islamic Sharia law system had been developed from a combination of the Qur'an; the Hadīth, or words of Muhammad; ijmā', or consensus of the members of the Muslim community; qiyas, a system of analogical reasoning from earlier precedents; and local customs.
history: Estimates vary based on different sources.
history: January 31 – Battle of Gembloux: Spanish forces under Don John of Austria and Alexander Farnese defeat the Dutch; Farnese begins to recover control of the French-speaking Southern Netherlands.
history: The first death outside Valletta occurred on 8 March in Attard.
history: Statistics.
history: A myriagon is a polygon with ten thousand edges and a total of 25 dihedral symmetry groups when including the myriagon itself, alongside  25 cyclic groups as subgroups.
history: Moreover, the empty product, that is the product of a set of zero numbers, is also 1.
history: In 1826 Sultan Mahmud II abolished the Janissary corps and established the modern Ottoman army.
history: In the Caucasus campaign, however, the Russian forces had the upper hand from the beginning, especially after the Battle of Sarikamish (1914–1915).
history: Thus, when Imad and his men approached Zahle from the north, its defenders enthusiastically welcomed them, believing them to be Karam's men.
history: The country has opposed the right to abortion, including at the International Conference on Population and Development; it is also a party to the Maputo Protocol, which includes a right to abortion.
history: It was especially unpopular among minority ethnicities, especially the Irish Catholics in Ireland, Australia, and the French Catholics in Canada.
history: Meanwhile, terrorism within Libya steadily increased, also affecting neighbouring countries.
history: Malta is located in the Mediterranean sea  about 81 kilometers from Sicily.
history: An army that holds the high ground forces the enemy to climb and thus wear themselves down.
history: Some of the symptoms that were saw in these people, were high fever, boils, cough, and bleeding.
history: The first known use of special glyphs for the decimal digits that includes the indubitable appearance of a symbol for the digit zero, a small circle, appears on a stone inscription found at the Chaturbhuj Temple, Gwalior, in India, dated AD 876.
history: When Adam blamed Eve after eating the forbidden fruit, God rebuked him that Adam as a man should not have obeyed his wife, for he is the head, not her.
history: The Bank saw its administration split twice, first during the first civil war, (February–August 2011), then from September 2014 on, as a result of the second civil war.
history: She declared that Ishmael would not share in Isaac's inheritance.
history: Records of Californians who served in World War I, 1918–1922.
history: It names itself." In the decade after its end, many hoped it would be "the war to end all wars," because of its unprecedented destructiveness and death toll.
history: While this is the simplest way to represent the natural numbers, base-1 is rarely used as a practical base for counting due to its difficult readability.
history: The 1592–93 Malta plague epidemic killed about 3,000 people, and there were smaller outbreaks in 1623 and 1655.
history: Since 1972, Arabic is used as the language of instruction during the first nine years of schooling.
history: On 20 January 2022, Elkaber and Al-Hibri signed an agreement on a four-stage unification plan, with the appointment of Deloitte to oversee the process.
history: Genesis 2:7 is the first verse where "Adam" takes on the sense of an individual man (the first man), and the context of sex is absent; the gender distinction of "adam" is then reiterated in Genesis 5:1–2 by defining "male and female".
history: Even before the 2011 war, Libya's infrastructure was in a poor state due to "utter neglect" by Gaddafi's administration, according to the NTC.
history: Bloomsbury Publishing.
history: The Armenians were intentionally marched to death and a number were attacked by Ottoman brigands.
history: This tribe may have ranged from the Atlantic Ocean to modern Libya, however, and was referred to by Corippius as Laguatan; he linked them with the Maures.
history: The Tughra were calligraphic monograms, or signatures, of the Ottoman Sultans, of which there were 35.
history: ISBN 9780816069354.
history: Libya was slow to join climate efforts, signing the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 2016 and the Paris Climate Agreement in 2021.
history: Much of this period was characterised by Ottoman expansion into the Balkans.
history: World War I proved transformative: Algerians fought bravely (25,000 dead) and worked in French factories, yet promised reforms like the Jonnart Law (1919) were largely undermined by settler opposition.
history: With British approval, Free French forces moved north from Chad to take control of the territory in January 1943.
history: Publications at all critical of the government were removed from circulation by postal censors, and many served long prison sentences for statements of fact deemed unpatriotic.
history: In 2016, Algeria used 2.4 global hectares of biocapacity per person – their ecological footprint of consumption.
history: The speeches made by Ömer Naci and Ömer Seyfettin were effective, and the front of the Sublime Porte was soon filled with a crowd shouting slogans against Kâmil Pasha's government.
history: Influenza attacked Africa through the Ottoman Empire, which by 1557 was expanding its territories in the northern and eastern parts of the continent.
history: Of the 60 million European military personnel who were mobilised from 1914 to 1918, an estimated 8 million were killed, 7 million were permanently disabled, and 15 million were seriously injured.
history: bayān, baʾān), Parthian baγ, Bactrian bago, Sogdian βγ-, and were used as honorific titles of kings and other men of high rank in the meaning of "lord".
history: Even though it is often stressed that counting to precisely a million would be an exceedingly tedious task due to the time and concentration required, there are many ways to bring the number "down to size" in approximate quantities, ignoring irregularities or packing effects.
history: Slavery was part of Ottoman society, with most slaves employed as domestic servants or in the case of female slaves as concubines (sexual slaves).
history: Following this victory, an Egyptian Expeditionary Force advanced across the Sinai Peninsula, pushing Ottoman forces back in the Battle of Magdhaba in December and the Battle of Rafa on the border between the Egyptian Sinai and Ottoman Palestine in January 1917.
history: The title refers to the Cave of the Patriarchs.
history: Genesis 4 deals with the birth of Adam's sons, and Genesis 5 lists his descendants from Seth to Noah.
history: The use of English in Algeria, though limited in comparison to the previously mentioned languages, has increased due to globalisation.
history: Ten Thousand a Year 1883?.
history: The Ottomans amassed an army of 3,000 men which left Ormylia and marched on the insurgents.
history: Although they remained secret, these provisions were incorporated into the April 1915 Treaty of London, and Italy joined the Allies.
history: After the Austro-Turkish War, the Treaty of Passarowitz confirmed the loss of the Banat, Serbia, and "Little Walachia" (Oltenia) to Austria.
history: Zeidan was sworn in after his cabinet was approved by the GNC.
history: In the weeks prior, some of the town's wealthier residents managed to leave for Beirut or gained Sa'id Jumblatt's protection in Moukhtara.
history: Although nominally loyal to the Ottoman sultan, the Regency gradually evolved into a highly autonomous "imperial state" dominated by janissaries, corsair captains, and the divan council rather than direct Ottoman administration.
history: Some historians believe that the drastic loss of life, and its impact on commerce, ultimately resulted in the downfall of Venice as a major commercial and political power.
history: The Ottoman Empire entered World War I on the side of the Central Powers and was ultimately defeated.
history: According to Herodotus, it is the Libyans who taught Greeks how to ride four-horse chariots, this is further shown when Mastanbal the prince of Numidia who is well versed in Greek literature.
history: Although the predominant literary language of the Ottoman Empire was Turkish, Persian was the preferred vehicle for the projection of an imperial image.
history: The Ottoman garrison established itself at Hazmiyeh with the support of the European consuls in order to bring order to Mount Lebanon.
history: The View from Istanbul: Lebanon and the Druze Emirate in the Ottoman Chancery Documents, 1546–1711.
history: It also fatally weakened both the Austrian and Russian armies, whose offensive capabilities were badly affected by their losses and increased disillusion with the war that ultimately led to the Russian revolutions.
history: He is also considered an important prophet of God in Druze faith, being among the seven prophets who appeared in different periods of history.
history: On land, Ahmed expanded Tripoli's control as far as Fezzan and Cyrenaica before his death in 1745.
history: Turkish, in its Ottoman variation, was a language of military and administration since the nascent days of the Ottomans.
history: Short found that the number of burials for market towns was much higher than christenings from 1557 to 1562.
history: The constitution offered hope by freeing the empire's citizens to modernise the state's institutions, rejuvenate its strength, and enable it to hold its own against outside powers.
history: 650 of 674 deaths during September in Stepney parish were from the plague.
history: Women often travel to receive legal abortions in Tunisia.
history: The French army, reinforced by the British expeditionary corps, seized this opportunity to counter-attack and pushed the German army 40 to 80 km back.
history: Women and International Human Rights Law: Volume 3.
history: By the day's end, the Druze fighters were in complete control of Metn, where clashes were widespread, and between 35 and 40 Maronite-majority villages were set alight and some 600 Maronites in the district slain.
history: Chinese authors had been familiar with the idea of negative numbers, and decimal fractions, by the Han dynasty (2nd century AD), as seen in The Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art.
history: They were primarily Greek, Armenian, or Jewish.
history: For many years there have been no public theatres, and only very few cinemas showing foreign films.
history: These five cities were also known as the Western Pentapolis; not to be confused with the Pentapolis of the Roman era on the current west Italian coast.
history: As the Age of Enlightenment dawned, armies began to fight in highly disciplined lines.
history: The conquest unfolded in three main phases and ultimately brought most of the region under Umayyad Caliphate control.
history: The Ottomans mobilized an army of approximately 12,000 soldiers under Abdi Pasha near Spilaio and another force commanded by Mehmet Tagu at Parorio.
history: After Abbasid control was weakened, Cyrenaica was under Egypt-based states such as the Tulunids, Ikhshidids, Ayyubids, and Mamluks before Ottoman conquest in 1517.
history: Zirid rule in Tripolitania was short-lived though, and already in 1001 the Berbers of the Banu Khazrun broke away.
history: After his assassination in June, the CUP would take full control of the empire, and opposition leaders would be arrested or exiled to Europe.
history: For the next hundred years, a series of deys effectively ruled Tripolitania.
history: Upon the request from the people and the military, I have been obliged to submit my humble letter of resignation to your majestic presence, and I have been informed that the command and decree in this regard and in the matter of the situation belongs to our holy lord, the guardian of commands.
history: About 90% of Algerians live in the northern, coastal area; the inhabitants of the Sahara desert are mainly concentrated in oases, although some 1.5 million remain nomadic or partly nomadic.
history: Likewise, the temperature in the Libyan Desert can be extreme; on 13 September 1922, the town of 'Aziziya, which is located southwest of Tripoli, recorded an air temperature of 58 °C (136.4 °F), considered to be a world record.
history: 1795–1832) re-established Tripolitania's independence.
history: After sunset, however, the clear, dry air permits rapid loss of heat, and the nights are cool to chilly.
history: Gaddafi was referred to as the "Brother Leader and Guide of the Revolution" in government statements and the official Libyan press.
history: In 1915 the Ottoman government and Kurdish tribes in the region started the extermination of its ethnic Armenian population, resulting in the deaths of up to 1.5 million Armenians in the Armenian genocide.
history: Descendants of Andalusi refugees are also present in the population of Algiers and other cities.
history: One of the deadliest conflicts in history, it resulted in an estimated 15 to 22 million military and civilian casualties and genocide.
history: When the war began in 1914, Italy argued the Triple Alliance was defensive and it was not obliged to support an Austrian attack on Serbia.
history: Many Libyans frequent the country's beach and they also visit Libya's archaeological sites – especially Leptis Magna, which is widely considered to be one of the best preserved Roman archaeological sites in the world.
history: Under Ottoman rule, a political and administrative structure gradually emerged that helped define the territory and borders of what would become Algeria.
history: In particular, they greatly expanded Libyan railway and road networks from 1934 to 1940, building hundreds of kilometres of new roads and railways and encouraging the establishment of new industries and dozens of new agricultural villages.
history: The defining characteristic of the fight as a concept in military science has changed with the variations in the organisation, employment and technology of military forces.
history: 27 (11th ed.).
history: Prior to the 2011 revolution, official and unofficial figures of migrant labour ranged from 25% to 40% of the population (between 1.5 and 2.4 million people).
history: A major Berber resistance then emerged under the legendary queen Kahina (Dihya), who initially defeated the Arabs in the Aurès Mountains.
history: The Janissaries were a highly formidable military unit in the early years, but as Western Europe modernised its military organisation technology, the Janissaries became a reactionary force that resisted all change.
history: A typical car tire might rotate a million times in a 1,900-kilometre (1,200 mi) trip, while the engine would do several times that number of revolutions.
history: Income from oil and gas rose in 2011 as a result of continuing high oil prices, though the trend in production volume is downward.
history: By this partitioning as signed in the Peace of Amasya, Western Armenia, western Kurdistan, and Western Georgia fell into Ottoman hands, while southern Dagestan, Eastern Armenia, Eastern Georgia, and Azerbaijan remained Persian.
history: In 1655 the plague was introduced to Malta through ships which had travelled from the Eastern Mediterranean to the island.
history: There were zones of operations in the Mediterranean and Indian Ocean, where Iberians circumnavigated Africa to reach India and, on their way, wage war upon the Ottomans and their local Muslim allies.
history: To secure Italian neutrality, the Central Powers offered them Tunisia, while in return for an immediate entry into the war, the Allies agreed to their demands for Austrian territory and sovereignty over the Dodecanese.
history: The formation of an interim unity government was announced on 5 February 2021, after its members were elected by the Libyan Political Dialogue Forum (LPDF).
history: Depending on the country, the number ten thousand is usually written as 10,000 (including in the UK and US), 10.000, or 10 000.
history: According to the Mandaean calendar, 2021–2022 CE in the Gregorian calendar would correspond to the Mandaean year 445391 AA (AA = after the creation of Adam).
history: The Shia Harfush clan led the siege and assault on Baalbek, attacking the Ottoman garrison there commanded by Husni Bey and the headquarters of the district governor, Faris Agha Qadro, killing several of the latter's employees.
history: Most Libyans associate themselves with a particular family name originating from tribal or conquest based heritage.
history: In software,
The Year 10,000 problem is the collective name for all potential software bugs that will emerge as the need to express years with five digits arises.
history: The first efforts to comprehend the meaning and consequences of modern warfare began during the initial phases of the war and are still underway more than a century later.
history: The following year the governor of Damascus, Ali Pasha, captured the chieftains of the local Assaf, Harfush, Tanukh and Furaykh dynasties and sent them to Constantinople.
history: Beylerbeyi (or Beglerbegi) "Lord of Lords", was the administrative rank formally enjoyed by the ruler of Algiers and by rulers of parts of the Balkans in their official capacity of Ottoman Governor-General within the Turkish empire.This title was also used in Safavid empire.
history: Ernest Wright and biblical scholars such as Albrecht Alt and John Bright believed that the patriarchs and matriarchs were either real individuals or believable composites of people who lived in the "patriarchal age", the 2nd millennium BCE.
history: Native Americans, on the other hand, did not fight in lines, using guerrilla tactics.
history: 10,000 (ten thousand) is the natural number following 9,999 and preceding 10,001.
history: The administrative personnel remained the former Italian bureaucrats.
history: The 1812–1819 Ottoman plague epidemic would cost the lives of at least 300,000 individuals.
history: In a study of 2002, the French intervention was described as one of the first humanitarian interventions.
history: In the Battle of Dobro Pole, the Serbian and French armies had success after a three-day-long battle with relatively small casualties, and subsequently made a breakthrough in the front, something which was rarely seen in World War I.
history: No other hypothesis has attracted broad acceptance.
history: Under Schlieffen, 85% of German forces in the west were assigned to the right wing, with the remainder holding along the frontier.
history: Algeria had a 2018 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 5.22/10, ranking it 106th globally out of 172 countries.
history: The capital and largest city is Tripoli, located in the northwest and containing over a million of Libya's seven million people.
history: Civil war soon resulted.
history: PMID 17512379.
history: The Battle of Sirte was both the last decisive battle and the last one in general of the First Libyan Civil War where Gaddafi was captured and killed by NATO-backed forces on 20 October 2011.
history: Jihadist elements have also spread to Sirte and Benghazi, among other areas, as a result of the Second Libyan Civil War.
history: Many of the creatures constituting the Algerian wildlife live in close proximity to civilisation.
history: After the end of the Ottoman–Safavid War (1532–1555), the Caucasus became partitioned for the first time between the Safavids and the Ottomans, a status quo that persisted until the Russian conquest of the Caucasus in the 19th century.
history: Rescuing the region from unrest and anarchy, the Senussi movement gave the Cyrenaican tribal people a religious attachment and feelings of unity and purpose.
history: The economy displays a lack of economic diversification and significant reliance on immigrant labour.
history: In the 15th and 16th centuries, the Ottoman Empire entered a period of expansion.
history: 16
              !
history: Economic historian Paul Bairoch argues that free trade contributed to deindustrialisation in the Ottoman Empire.
history: It has the status of an autonomous corporate body.
history: In North Africa, Spain conquered Oran from the autonomous Deylik of Algiers.
history: Μύριοι is an Ancient Greek name for 10.000 taken into the modern European languages as 'myriad' (see above).
history: The organisation added that Libya ranked very low in the 2015 Press Freedom Index, 154th out of 180 countries.
history: In the context of sports, "nil" is sometimes used, especially in British English.
history: Playing cards, checkers and chess games are part of Algerian culture.
history: The crowds, estimated at 20,000 to 50,000 (these figures were likely smaller than the crowds' actual size), were made up of Muslim and Druze peasants, Kurdish irregulars, and ruffians from the city quarters.
history: Libya faces many structural problems including a lack of institutions, weak governance, and chronic structural unemployment.
history: The plan's creator, Alfred von Schlieffen, head of the German General Staff from 1891 to 1906, estimated that this would take six weeks, after which the German army would transfer to the East and defeat the Russians.
history: Colloquial Algerian Arabic is spoken by about 83% of the population and Berber by 27%.
history: However, by the 1670s, the position of the dey experienced the succession of eight different leaders, leading to instability.
history: Maneuver warfare also returned with an astonishing pace with the advent of the tank, replacing the cannon of the Enlightenment Age.
history: The versions of Duwayhi and Shihabi, which add the troops of Aleppo Eyalet and Cyprus Eyalet to the expeditionary force, hold that Ibrahim Pasha's troops encamped in an area called Marj Armush and the size of the Ottoman force alone "frightened all the Arab lands".
history: His grandson Jugurtha (r.
history: Further, to attest that Abraham was the one who had dug the well, he also gave Abimelech seven ewes for proof.
history: Most scholars view the patriarchal age, along with the Exodus and the period of the biblical judges, as a late literary construct that does not relate to any particular historical era.
history: Partly as a result of these policies and Islamic inheritance law, which stipulate each son receive an equal share of land upon the father's death, in 1986 farms tended to be fragmented and too small to efficiently use water.
history: The tradition of Ottoman miniatures, painted to illustrate manuscripts or used in dedicated albums, was heavily influenced by the Persian art form, though it also included elements of the Byzantine tradition of illumination and painting.
history: Ultimately around 8000 other Londoners likely died of influenza during the epidemic, including many elders and parish priests.
history: September 6 – After 16 days travel, the fleet of Francis Drake completes its traverse of the Strait of Magellan between the tip of South America and Tierra del Fuego.
history: To ʻAbdu'l-Bahá, the Abraham was born to a family that was ignorant of the oneness of God.
history: In the 1876 revolution, the Ottoman Empire attempted constitutional monarchy, before reverting to an absolute monarchy under Abdul Hamid II, following the Great Eastern Crisis.
history: After the 1557 pandemic English nicknames for the flu began to appear in letters, like "the new disease" in England and "the newe acquaintance" in Scotland.
history: Algeria has a population of an estimated 47.4 million, of which 75% to 85% are Arabs and Arabized Berbers.
history: The proportion of Muslims amounted to 60% in the 1820s, gradually increasing to 69% in the 1870s and 76% in the 1890s.
history: The Druze and others were disarmed and tax arrears were collected, with al-Burini reporting that Ibrahim Pasha confiscated thousands of muskets and large sums of money from the Druze.
history: "Global Progress in Abortion Advocacy and Policy: An Assessment of the Decade since ICPD".
history: The kingdom's primary exports consisted of hides, wool, horses, and ostrich feathers.
history: Adapted from the celebrated novel of the same name, by the author of the Diary of a Physician, and arranged for the stage by Richard Brinsley Peake.
history: Soon, a Druze muqata'ji of the Yazbaki faction, Yusuf Abd al-Malik, and his fighters intervened in a brawl between young Maronite and Druze men in the vicinity of the Metn village of Beit Mery, which resulted in 20 fatalities.
history: This action provoked the Ottoman Empire into the Russo-Turkish War of 1768–1774.
history: The Shia school of Islam does not even consider that their action was a sin, for obedience and disobedience are possible only on Earth, and not in heaven where the paradise is located.
history: Almost everything which I have introduced I have displayed with exact proof, in order that those further seeking this knowledge, with its pre-eminent method, might be instructed, and further, in order that the Latin people might not be discovered to be without it, as they have been up to now.
history: A variety of bird species makes the country an attraction for bird watchers.
history: People who conduct or receive abortions may be imprisoned, with shortened sentences in cases such as pregnancy from rape.
history: The term itself was a shortened form of Jazāʾir Banī Mazghanna (جزائر بني مزغنة, "the islands of the Bani Mazghanna"), named after a local Berber tribe.
history: By the 19th century, the province of Tripoli, known officially as Tarablus al-Gharb ('Tripoli of the West') was organized into five sanjaks (districts):
history: Given Algeria's young population, policy favours preventive health care and clinics over hospitals.
history: Boumédienne's successor, Chadli Bendjedid, introduced some liberal economic reforms.
history: Encyclopedia of Plague and Pestilence: From Ancient Times to the Present (3rd ed.).
history: Both nations agreed to a ceasefire under the mediation of the Algerian president Houari Boumédiène.
history: A second Austrian offensive was repulsed in June 1918.
history: Other Christians were killed throughout Deir al-Qamar.
history: Oases can also be found scattered throughout Libya, the most important of which are Ghadames and Kufra.
history: May 26 – The Alteratie takes place in Amsterdam, expelling the 24 Catholic members of the 40-man city government, and forming a new council is formed with 30 Calvinist Protestants and 10 Catholics.
history: Anabasis, by the Greek writer Xenophon (431–360 B.C.), about the Army of the Ten Thousand – Greek mercenaries taking part in the expedition of Cyrus the Younger, a Persian prince, against his brother, King Artaxerxes II.
history: In 2018, Algeria had the highest numbers of physicians in the Maghreb region (1.72 per 1,000 people), nurses (2.23 per 1,000 people), and dentists (0.31 per 1,000 people).
history: Polybius first mentions Numidian cavalry as part of the Carthaginian army during the First Punic War.
history: Sunni Islam is the official religion and practised by 99 percent of the population.
history: The Carthaginians avoided conquering the strong Berber tribes in the interior.
history: The Russian Empire lost much of its western frontier as the newly independent nations of Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland were carved from it.
history: Disciplined troops are often of greater importance; at the Battle of Alesia, the Romans were greatly outnumbered but won because of superior training.
history: In 1816, Yusuf ordered the massacre of the al-Jawazi tribe.
history: A cube of iron that weighs one billion pounds (450,000,000 kg) would be 38.62 metres (126.7 ft) on each side.
history: This became zefiro in Italian, and was then contracted to zero via the Venetian form zevero.
history: The conflicts between herdsmen had become so troublesome that Abram suggested that Lot choose a separate area, either on the left hand or on the right hand, that there be no conflict between them.
history: The 2012 wheat production was estimated at 200,000 tonnes.
history: The ornately stylised Tughra spawned a branch of Ottoman-Turkish calligraphy.
history: The Italo-Turkish War was fought between the Ottoman Empire and the Kingdom of Italy from September 29, 1911, to October 18, 1912.
history: These settlements served as market towns as well as anchorages.
history: Algeria has the 10th-largest reserves of natural gas in the world and is the sixth-largest gas exporter.
history: His concerns were generally not shared by the other European consuls.
history: These routes have further contributed in the economic development of Libya.
history: As decentralized Ottoman power had resulted in the virtual independence of Egypt as well as Tripoli, the coast and desert lying between them relapsed to anarchy, even after direct Ottoman control was resumed in Tripoli.
history: At this point, the two other visitors left for Sodom.
history: As of 2022, the number of Turkish companies present in Algeria has reached 1,400.
history: However, the region's delicate balance of power allowed the Karamanli to survive several dynastic crises without invasion.
history: Under the command of Amr ibn al-As, the Rashidun army conquered Cyrenaica.
history: By mid-day, Miralay and his soldiers were ordered to withdraw from their positions.
history: Arab nationalist leaders advocated the creation of a pan-Arab state.
history: Britain later sent troops to Egypt in 1882 to put down the Urabi Revolt (Sultan Abdul Hamid II was too paranoid to mobilise his own army, fearing this would result in a coup d'état), effectively gaining control in both territories.
history: Masinissa promoted agriculture, built a strong army and navy, and was praised by ancient writers such as Roman historian Livy as an exceptional ruler.
history: The Zahalni Christians, largely led by Abdallah Abu Khatir, appealed for support from Maronite militia leaders in Kesrawan and Metn, namely Taniyus Shahin of Reifun, Youssef Bey Karam of Ehden and Yusuf al-Shantiri of Metn.
history: Besides piracy, the region's inland areas, consisting of ravines, mountains and inhospitable desert, forced a reliance on exports of salt, coastal slave raiding in Calabria and Morea, and tribute from the interior tribes.
history: 18,632,325,319 = 33rd Wedderburn–Etherington number.
history: With its capital at Constantinople and control over a significant portion of the Mediterranean Basin, the Ottoman Empire was at the centre of interactions between the Middle East and Europe for six centuries.
history: Not long after Uthman Bey assured the Christians of Hasbaya that Druze attacks would end, Druze forces set fire to a Christian village in Wadi al-Taym and proceeded to assault Hasbaya, where Christians fleeing the clashes had been seeking shelter.
history: The Ten thousand martyrs.
history: Militias had refused to be integrated into a central security force by February 2013.
history: A Greek academy of painters, the Nakkashane-i-Rum, was established in the Topkapi Palace in the 15th century, while early in the following century a similar Persian academy, the Nakkashane-i-Irani, was added.
history: Cases expanded exponentially as merchants, pilgrims, and other travelers leaving Madrid transported the virus to cities and towns across the country.
history: On 28 October, the German cruiser SMS Emden sank the Russian cruiser Zhemchug in the Battle of Penang.
history: According to the Apocalypse of Moses, which probably originates in first-century CE Jewish literature, the altar of the Temple of Solomon was the centre of the world and the gateway to God's Garden of Eden, and it was here that Adam was both created and buried.
history: Also living in Libya are an estimated 750,000 Egyptian workers, down from more than 2 million prior to the overthrow of Muammar Gaddafi in 2011.
history: The Druze were likewise suspicious of the Ottomans.
history: Abraham then received God's instructions concerning circumcision.
history: Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, olives, dates, citrus, vegetables, peanuts, soybeans; cattle.
history: This coincides exactly with North Africans being well known for their worship of their sun god 'Tafukt' or commonly identified by the Greeks as Apollo they were believed to inhabit a sunny, temperate, and divinely-blessed land.
history: 'Ali ibn Mehmed neglected the affairs of state in the 1780s and delegated most of his power to his eldest son Hasan, whom he appointed as bey.
history: The Persian Immortals were also called the Ten Thousand or 10,000 Immortals, so named because their Number of 10,000 was immediately re-established after every loss.
history: Neanderthal tool makers produced hand axes in the Levalloisian and Mousterian styles (43,000 BC) similar to those in the Levant.
history: Fingers: If the width of a human finger is 22 mm (7⁄8 in), then a million fingers lined up would cover a distance of 22 km (14 mi).
history: Occasionally both names for the same battle entered the popular culture, such as the First Battle of Bull Run and the Second Battle of Bull Run, which are also referred to as the First and Second Battles of Manassas.
history: Paul the Apostle declared that all who believe in Jesus (Christians) are "included in the seed of Abraham and are inheritors of the promise made to Abraham".
history: Most farms in the Jifara Plain were irrigated by individual wells and electric pumps, although in 1985 only about 1% of arable land was irrigated.
history: By October 2012, the economy had recovered from the 2011 conflict, with oil production returning to near normal levels.
history: 1512)
July 27 – Jane Lumley, English translator (b.
history: The Christians had been hired and armed by al-Halabi to guard his home from rioters and mistakenly shot at the group of Muslim fire extinguishers, believing them to be rioters.
history: The Ottoman Province of Damascus in the Sixteenth Century (PhD).
history: Gmirkin, Russell E.
history: Sassi Haraga et al.
history: Algeria, whose economy is reliant on petroleum, has been an member of the OPEC cartel since 1969.
history: This article became known as the "War Guilt Clause", as the majority of Germans felt humiliated and resentful.
history: Forty-three Druze villages, including Barouk, the headquarters of Qurqumaz, were burned and Ibn Tulun reported that Khurram Pasha returned to Damascus with four camel loads of Druze heads and Druze religious literature proving the religion's hostility to Sunni Islam.
history: Queen Elizabeth I reigned in her fifth year and the government struggled with a rapidly increasing population.
history: Abram's force headed north in pursuit of the Elamite army, who were already worn down from the Battle of Siddim.
history: One apparent exception was Muhayyelât (Fancies) by Giritli Ali Aziz Efendi, a collection of stories of the fantastic written in 1796, though not published until 1867.
history: The Imperial Harem was one of the most important powers of the Ottoman court.
history: In the century after Osman I, Ottoman rule had begun to extend over Anatolia and the Balkans.
history: Many snack vendors prepare these sandwiches and they can be found all over Libya.
history: This title means "al-Khwarizmi on the Numerals of the Indians".
history: 19,577,194,573 = Markov prime
19,606,122,418 = number of partitions of 384 into divisors of 384
19,770,609,664 = 1406082 = 27043 = 526
19,847,520,789 = number of uniform rooted trees with 29 nodes
history: While a traditional view was that the Book of Genesis was authored by Moses and has been considered historical and metaphorical, modern scholars consider the Genesis creation narrative as one of various ancient origin myths.
history: Osman extended control of his principality by conquering Byzantine towns along the Sakarya River.
history: The international community continues to recognise the unity government as the legitimate government of the country.
history: The story of the life of Abraham, as told in the narrative of the Book of Genesis in the Hebrew Bible, revolves around the themes of blessing and promise, especially the promise of progeny and land.
history: The space a battle occupies depends on the range of the weapons of the combatants.
history: Hungary on 26 July 1921.
history: In the north, some of the native flora includes Macchia scrub, olive trees, oaks, cedars and other conifers.
history: Some fonts designed for use with computers made the  "0" character more squared at the edges, like a rectangle, and the "O" character more rounded.
history: "Problems in the Ottoman Administration in Syria during the 16th and 17th Centuries: The Case of the Sanjak of Sidon-Beirut".
history: JSTOR 4055631.
history: Abraham smashes the idols
"Journey and Life of the Patriarch Abraham", a map dating back to 1590
history: However, following the disastrous Balkan Wars, the CUP became increasingly radicalised and Turkish nationalist, leading a coup d'état in 1913 that established a dictatorship.
history: Some of the distinctive styles were: Janissary music, Roma music, Belly dance, Turkish folk music.
history: Since this required them to move quickly, mobilisation orders were issued that afternoon.
history: Zero was not treated as a number at that time, but as a "vacant position".
history: Gaddafi was often described by critics as a dictator, and was one of the world's longest serving non-royal leaders.
history: An estimated number of military and civilian casualties in World War I was about 15 to 22 million deaths and about 23 million wounded military personnel, ranking it among the deadliest conflicts in human history.
history: In 773, at Al-Mansur's behest, translations were made of many ancient treatises including Greek, Roman, Indian, and others.
history: Troops were often used to storm enemy ships as used by Romans and pirates.
history: Grains are roasted, ground, sieved and used for making bread, cakes, soups and Bazeen.
history: 6,240,321,451 = 915
6,321,363,049 = 795072 = 18493 = 436
6,469,693,230 : tenth primorial
6,564,120,420 : The 20th Catalan number.
history: Water supply is also a problem, with some 28% of the population not having access to safe drinking water in 2000.
history: This decree left enough room for parties to interpret "equality" differently.
history: Generally, the word "battle" is used for such campaigns if referring to a protracted combat encounter in which either one or both of the combatants had the same methods, resources, and strategic objectives throughout  the encounter.
history: When Adam repents from his sin, he is forgiven by God.
history: In the philosophy of Plotinus (and that of other neoplatonists), 'The One' is the ultimate reality and source of all existence.
history: Although Libya has nearly 1,800 km of coastline and the second largest continental shelf in the Mediterranean, its waters are not particularly rich in plankton needed to sustain fishing waters.
history: The metric prefix giga indicates 1,000,000,000 times the base unit.
history: Then Abraham turned to God and pleaded decrementally with Him (from fifty persons to less) that "if there were at least ten righteous men found in the city, would not God spare the city?" For the sake of ten righteous people, God declared that he would not destroy the city.
history: Ten is the fourth triangular number and the third tetrahedral number:
history: According to his colleague, the historian Muhammad Adnan Bakhit, Rafeq benefited from this environment and gained knowledge in modern historical methodology, high-level Arabic and research skills and academic ethics.
history: servicemen, and the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 leading to UN sanctions in the 1990s; by the late 2000s, the United States and other Western powers had normalised relations with Libya.
history: Kurdish irregulars and local Muslims attempted to storm the home of Abd al-Qadir, where numerous Christians were being sheltered, but Abd al-Qadir emerged from the home with his men and threatened to fire upon them.
history: By the late 18th century, after a number of defeats in the wars with Russia, some people in the Ottoman Empire began to conclude that the reforms of Peter the Great had given the Russians an edge, and the Ottomans would have to keep up with Western technology in order to avoid further defeats.
history: The party would regain some semblance of power in the Armistice Era after World War I, though again fell into infighting under Colonel Sadık's chairmanship.
history: Ancient Egyptian numerals were of base 10.
history: Baalbek was largely destroyed and Yazigi's irregulars would later participate in the town's plunder.
history: The ironclad, first used in the American Civil War, resistant to cannons, soon made the wooden ship obsolete.
history: The oldest myths portray them as the favorites of Apollo, and some ancient Greek writers regarded them as the mythical founders of Apollo's shrines at Delos and Delphi.
history: While plague could and did strike any class, poor populations where dirty conditions prevailed had suffered greater losses than the cleaner areas of the city.
history: When division produced zero as a remainder, nihil, meaning "nothing", was used.
history: After suffering heavy losses, the Austrians briefly occupied the Serbian capital, Belgrade.
history: ISBN 978-0-8028-4693-8.
history: Cvjetko Popović, Gavrilo Princip, Nedeljko Čabrinović, Trifko Grabež, Vaso Čubrilović (Bosnian Serbs) and Muhamed Mehmedbašić (from the Bosniaks community), from the movement known as Young Bosnia, took up positions along the Archduke's motorcade route, to assassinate him.
history: He writes that Adam was the first enunciator of divine revelation (Arabic: ناطق, romanized: nāṭiq, lit.
history: The symptoms were so severe that some members of the population suspected a mass poisoning had occurred.
history: In November 1942, the Allied forces retook Cyrenaica.
history: 1660)
Johann, Prince of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, first prince of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen (d.
history: Many Turkic tribes—including the Oghuz Turks, who were the ancestors of both the Seljuks and the Ottomans—gradually converted to Islam and brought religion to Anatolia through their migrations beginning in the 11th century.
history: 7,862,958,391 : 32nd Wedderburn–Etherington number.
history: Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers.
history: The Second Barbary War ended with an agreement that American ships had free passage without the need to pay tribute.
history: 1 is the unit of counting or measurement, and represents a single thing.
history: The problems of re-supply were also exacerbated by increasing distances that now stretched over terrain that was shell-torn and often impassable to traffic.
history: The Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878) ended with a decisive victory for Russia.
history: In the opinion of the British consul, James Brant, while there were acts of hostility, verbal abuse and ill-treatment of Christians, there was "no fear" of Muslims harming Christians in the city, particularly if the Ottoman authorities intervened.
history: The Balkan territories lost by the Ottomans after 1402, including Thessaloniki, Macedonia, and Kosovo, were later recovered by Murad II between the 1430s and 1450s.
history: doi:10.1016/S0968-8080(05)25168-6.
history: The Barbary Wars and the Anglo-Dutch bombardment of Algiers further weakened the state and forced concessions to the United States and European powers.
history: Irrigated land: 4,700 km² (2003).
history: It also signed the Geneva Consensus Declaration, a statement by the administration of US President Donald Trump opposing the right to abortion, in 2020.
history: In 1911, Chancellor Theobald von Bethmann Hollweg acknowledged defeat, leading to the Rüstungswende or 'armaments turning point', when he switched expenditure from the navy to the army.
history: As of January 2025, Facebook has 3.065 billion users.
history: In geography,
Land of 10000 Lakes is the nickname for the state of Minnesota.
history: Congregations were prohibited, and other containment measures included the banning of cloaks, which were believed to facilitate contact between people.
history: However, the terms also included the Central Powers' recognition of the union of Bessarabia with Romania.
history: The Christian force assembled in Zahlé numbered around 4,000 men, mostly from Zahlé, but also 400 cavalry from Baskinta and a smaller force from Metn.
history: During 2015 an extended series of diplomatic meetings and peace negotiations were supported by the United Nations, as conducted by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General (SRSG), Spanish diplomat Bernardino León.
history: Rumors spread in the Christian community, including one in which the Druze requested the Ottoman governor of Damascus, Ahmad Pasha, to hand over 72 Christians who were wanted by the Druze.
history: On the evening of 19 June, a Christian resident and a priest were killed outside the government house in Deir al-Qamar, where thousands of residents had begun taking refuge.
history: Some other historians have used the modern name of the Berbers in their works, such as the French historian Gabriel Camps.
history: Angered at their loss in the election, the leadership of Freedom and Accord sought extra-legal methods to regain power over the CUP, complaining vocally about electoral fraud.
history: The Sharif declared the independence of the Kingdom of Hejaz and, with British assistance, conquered much of Ottoman-held Arabia, resulting finally in the Ottoman surrender of Damascus.
history: November 19 – Humphrey Gilbert and Walter Ralegh set out from Plymouth in England, leading an expedition to establish a colony in North America.
history: This discontent continued to mount with the rise of Nasserism and Arab nationalism throughout North Africa and the Middle East, that inspire many anti-royal coups across the Arab world.
history: Examples include identity elements of additive groups and vector spaces.
history: By 20 February, the unrest had spread to Tripoli.
history: In 2009, the French government agreed to compensate victims of nuclear tests in Algeria.
history: Algeria has a semi-arid climate, with the Sahara desert dominating most of the territory except for its fertile and mountainous north, where most of the population is concentrated.
history: In the aftermath of World War I, the victorious Allied Powers occupied and partitioned the Ottoman Empire, which lost its southern territories to the United Kingdom and France.
history: Economic historian Jean Batou argues that the necessary economic conditions existed in Egypt for the adoption of oil as a potential energy source for its steam engines later in the 19th century.
history: Among noted more recent work is The Swallows of Kabul and The Attack by Yasmina Khadra, The Oath of Barbarians by Boualem Sansal, Memory of the Flesh by Ahlam Mosteghanemi and the last novel of Assia Djebar Nowhere in My Father's House.
history: This change enabled Bouteflika to stand for re-election in the 2009 presidential elections, and he was re-elected in April 2009.
history: Because of low rainfall, agricultural projects like the Kufra Oasis rely on underground water sources.
history: According to King Phillip II's doctor Luis de Mercado, "All the population was attacked the same day, and the same time of day.
history: radius of a circle with area 100 π km2 ≈ 314.159 km2.
history: the Lebanese £L10,000 banknote depicts Beirut's Martyrs' Square.
history: It is more likely that the disease arrived with infected rats along with some merchandise.
history: Alan Millard argues that the name Abram is of Amorite origin and that it is attested in Mari as ʾabī-rām.
history: There was a religious revival during the epidemic, resulting in the veneration of the Blessed Sacrament and relics.
history: Severe penalties including capital punishment were enacted against those who did not report cases to the authorities, and three men were hanged as an example.
history: Augustine of Hippo declared that Christians are "children (or 'seed') of Abraham by faith", Ambrose stated that "by means of their faith Christians possess the promises made to Abraham", and Martin Luther recalled Abraham as "a paradigm of the man of faith".
history: Under Gaddafi's rule, the teaching and even use of indigenous Berber language was strictly forbidden.
history: However, they decide to create a physical version of Adam in the image of the spiritual Adam.
history: The sum of 0 numbers (the empty sum) is 0, and the product of 0 numbers (the empty product) is 1.
history: Chemical weapons were deployed by all major belligerents throughout the war, inflicting approximately 1.3 million casualties, of which about 90,000 were fatal.
history: In 533, Emperor Justinian I, seeking to restore the Roman Empire, launched a major campaign against the Vandals.
history: These armies would march, line up and fire in divisions.
history: Bulgaria was the first to sign an armistice, the Armistice of Salonica on 29 September 1918.
history: As a result, Ottoman holdings in Europe declined sharply: Bulgaria was established as an independent principality inside the Ottoman Empire; Romania achieved full independence; and Serbia and Montenegro finally gained complete independence, but with smaller territories.
history: Elevation extremes:
lowest point: Sabkhat Ghuzayyil -47 m
highest point: Bikku Bitti 2,266 m
Land use:
arable land: 1.03%.
history: From its founding, the Ottoman Empire officially supported the Maturidi school of Islamic theology, which emphasised human reason, rationality, the pursuit of science and philosophy (falsafa).
history: This is the constant function with 0 as its only possible output value, that is, it is the function f defined by f(x) = 0 for all x in D.
history: Before leaving his father's land, Abraham was miraculously saved from the fiery furnace of Nimrod following his brave action of breaking the idols of the Chaldeans into pieces.
history: The concept of the decisive battle became popular with the publication in 1851 of Edward Creasy's The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World.
history: Their ancient Egyptian neighbors referred to the various Libyan groups and tribes as the Tehenu, Temehu, Rebu and Meshwesh.
history: Similar to the Biblical account, the Quran has Adam placed in a garden where he sins by taking from the Tree of Immortality, so loses his abode in the garden.
history: Note that each district linked may be both a baladiyah and a shabiyah.
history: According to the Arab Barometer in 2018–2019, the vast majority of Algerians (99.1%) continue to identify as Muslim.
history: Some comparisons below give a sense of how large 1,000,000,000,000 (1012) is, according to current evidence.
history: The Senussi tribe, along the border of Italian Libya and British Egypt, incited and armed by the Turks, waged a small-scale guerrilla war against Allied troops.
history: Both systems were taught at the Empire's law schools, which were in Istanbul and Bursa.
history: A very common snack eaten by Libyans is known as khubs bi' tun, literally meaning "bread with tuna fish", usually served as a baked baguette or pita bread stuffed with tuna fish that has been mixed with harissa (chili sauce) and olive oil.
history: In cosmopolitan cities, people often spoke their family languages; in some cities, many of those who were not ethnic Turks spoke Turkish as a second language.
history: "History of Cholera Outbreaks in Iran during the 19th and 20th Centuries".
history: JSTOR 622157.
history: Western Libyans were sedentary farmers who lived west of Lake Tritonis.
history: After sanctions were lifted there was a gradual increase of air traffic, and by 2005 there were 1.5 million yearly air travellers.
history: In contrast to the protectionism of China, Japan, and Spain, the Ottoman Empire had a liberal trade policy, open to foreign imports.
history: The crisis was deepened by factional violence in the aftermath of the First Civil War, resulting in the outbreak of the Second Libyan Civil War in 2014.
history: The Egyptian army, led by Muhammad Pasha forced the Druze to withdraw but, exhausted from traversing the mountainous terrain, were repelled by the Druze fighters near Smaid.
history: 1667)
September 17 – John Prideaux, English academic administrator and Anglican bishop (d.
history: Algeria became independent on 5 July 1962, ending 132 years of French colonial rule.
history: into believing the 'total sum was being maintained.'" Thus, 50 billion gold marks (12.5 billion dollars) "represented the actual Allied assessment of German capacity to pay" and "therefore ...
history: This was a study of plague which recorded the 1675–76 epidemic and called it "the worst epidemic on record", and it was the first medical work to be published by a Maltese.
history: Non-Muslims, particularly Christians and Jews, were present throughout the empire's history.
history: The coastal plain of Libya was inhabited by Neolithic peoples from as early as 8000 BC.
history: All suspected cases were transferred to the Lazzaretto on the Isolotto, and most of them died soon afterwards.
history: This promise is subsequently inherited by Isaac, Abraham's son by his wife Sarah, while Isaac's half-brother Ishmael is also promised that he will be the founder of a great nation.
history: Byzantine rule in Africa was limited mainly to the provinces of Byzacena, Proconsular Africa, and Numidia.
history: The Libyan economy depends primarily upon revenues from the oil sector, which account for over half of GDP and 97% of exports.
history: D'Hautpoul had instructions to collaborate with the Ottoman authorities in reestablishing order, and especially to maintain contact with the Ottoman minister Fuad Pasha.
history: The swift emergence of a large number of bureaucrats resulted in a costly royal government.
history: ISSN 0968-8080.
history: Paré regarded the common treatments of bloodletting and purgation to be especially dangerous to 1510's flu patients.
history: His replacement, the veteran Ottoman commander Ja'far Pasha al-Tuwashi, was entrusted with continuing Ibrahim Pasha's suppression of the rebellion in Mount Lebanon.
history: The term Rūmī was also used to refer to Turkish speakers by the other Muslim peoples of the empire and beyond.
history: The French took over Algeria and Tunisia.
history: In 1839, the Sublime Porte attempted to take back what it lost to the de facto autonomous, but de jure still Ottoman Eyalet of Egypt, but its forces were initially defeated, which led to the Oriental Crisis of 1840.
history: In 1873, Bismarck negotiated the League of the Three Emperors, which included Austria-Hungary, Russia, and Germany.
history: The number 0 is regarded as neither positive nor negative, and is usually displayed as the origin of a number line.
history: The English words "nought" or "naught", "nil", and null are also synonymous.
history: Ten Thousand a Year 1839 by Samuel Warren.
history: The French army, drawing lessons from Indochina, achieved significant military successes, notably with the Morice Line and General Challe's campaigns, but faced growing political frustration.
history: He was, however, a poor commander.
history: The Muslim conquest of Transoxiana under the Abbasids facilitated the spread of Islam into the Turkic heartland of Central Asia.
history: Because of the epidemic Ottoman soldiers were soon recalled back to the ports, even though the emperor had been slain, and shortly afterwards Gelawdewos's brother Menas ascended to the Abyssinian throne and converted from Islam to Christianity.
history: For example, the 1831 census only counted men and did not cover the whole empire.
history: It was a costly enterprise for Muhammad Ali, who had lost his fleet at the Battle of Navarino in 1827.
history: The Spanish also massacred many Muslim soldiers.
history: Beginning with the late 16th century, sultans withdrew from politics and the Grand Vizier became the de facto head of state.
history: According to Human Rights Watch annual report 2016, journalists are still being targeted by the armed groups in Libya.
history: The shut down threatened to cause oil shortages domestically in Libya, and preclude the state-run National Oil Corp.
history: In Slavic-influenced names, it can be seen in conjunction with the Slavic -ov/-ović/ev suffixes meaning "son of", such as in Bakir and Alija Izetbegović, and Abai Kunanbaev.
history: The country was left devastated: massive displacement, economic collapse due to the sudden departure of most European settlers, and deep social trauma.
history: The incident generated outrage in the United States and Libya.
history: A large fleet commanded by General Belisarius sailed from Constantinople.
history: "The Unknown Career of Ahmad Ma'n (1667-1697)".
history: The life expectancy at birth was 74.95 years in 2011, or 72.44 years for males and 77.59 years for females.
history: The Romans used the name Líbues, but only when referring to Barca and the Libyan Desert of Egypt.
history: Abram then gave Melchizedek a tenth of everything.
history: 4,294,967,296 = 655362 = 2564 = 168 = 416 = 232
4,294,967,297 : 
  
    
      
        
          F
          
            5
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle F_{5}}
  
, the first composite Fermat number.
history: With an area of almost 1.8 million km2 (700,000 sq mi), Libya is the fourth-largest country in Africa and the Arab world, and the 16th-largest in the world.
history: In scientific notation, it is written as 1×106 or 106.
history: Facts and Figure.
history: 1571)
December 3 – Gonzalo II Fernández de Córdoba, Governor of the Duchy of Milan (b.
history: Tripoli's fleet was the smallest among the Barbary States, with only 13 vessels compared to 20 in Tunis and 40 in Algiers.
history: The reformist period peaked with the Constitution, called the Kanûn-u Esâsî.
history: Qín Jiǔsháo's 1247 Mathematical Treatise in Nine Sections is the oldest surviving Chinese mathematical text using a round symbol '〇' for zero.
history: London's Bills of Mortality for the middle of the decade show 900 plague deaths in 1604, 400 in 1605, and a spike to 2000 plague deaths in 1606.
history: Casualties were greater for the French, but the Germans bled heavily as well, with anywhere from 700,000 to 975,000 casualties between the two combatants.
history: Linguistically, one is a cardinal number used for counting and expressing the number of items in a collection of things.
history: The cities that were affected the most by the plague were Valletta, Vittoriosa and Senglea.
history: After these follow two shorter parts entitled "Creation" and "Shi'ur Ḳomah", and after 41a come formulas for amulets and incantations.
history: 1012 years from now, star formation may end in galaxies as they lack gas clouds to form new stars, and evidence of Big Bang may become undetectable.
history: The territory also had part of the Mediterranean Sea named after it called the Libyan Sea or Mare Libycum (which was the part of the Mediterranean south of Crete, between Cyrene and Alexandria).
history: Although sanitation was a constant problem, the city had gone over a dozen years without a plague epidemic and many contemporary Londoners were unconcerned about the disease.
history: The acting governor of Beirut, Isma'il Pasha, deployed troops throughout the city to prevent violence, but ultimately decided that the only way to disperse the mobs was by executing the Christian suspect, who consistently declared his innocence.
history: There are about 60,000 Egyptian Copts in Libya.
history: Because of a low literacy rate among the public (about 2–3% until the early 19th century and just about 15% at the end of the 19th century), ordinary people had to hire scribes as "special request-writers" (arzuhâlcis) to be able to communicate with the government.
history: A city lot 70 by 100 feet is about a million square inches.
history: In Cyrillic numerals, it is known as the vran (вран — raven).
history: Meanwhile, the LPDF confirmed that Abdul Hamid Dbeibeh, a businessman, would be the transitional prime minister.
history: Another law in 1977 further restricted tribal groups, emphasizing use in determining land ownership.
history: In 1957, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature.
history: After Libya's independence in 1951, its first university, the University of Libya, was established in Benghazi by royal decree.
history: Under the terms of the agreement, a nine-member Presidency Council and a seventeen-member interim Government of National Accord would be formed, with a view to holding new elections within two years.
history: Later Berber client kings, such as Juba I (who supported Pompey and was defeated by Caesar at Thapsus in 46 BC), continued to rule diminished territories.
history: Berbers are native to North Africa and have established their culture for thousands of years alongside the Egyptians.
history: The bloody events led France to intervene and stop the massacre after Ottoman troops had been aiding local Druze and Muslim forces by either direct support or by disarming Christian forces.
history: It can be traced back to the Brahmic script of ancient India, as represented by Ashoka as a simple vertical line in his Edicts of Ashoka in c.
history: A relief supply of grain and flour sent by the Ottoman general Khurshid Pasha apparently did not reach the town.
history: McLachlan, K.
history: PMID 38835050.
history: It is estimated that there are around 2 trillion galaxies in the observable universe.
history: =
        1
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1!=1}
  
.
history: Despite this, about 26% of Algerians think that homosexuality should be accepted, according to the survey conducted by the BBC News Arabic-Arab Barometer in 2019.
history: In 2020, despite the pandemic, more than 130 Turkish companies were created in Algeria.
history: The archaic Greece had no symbol for zero (μηδέν, pronounced mēdén), and did not use a digit placeholder for it.
history: JSTOR 25475294.
history: High-ranking Begs were allowed to call themselves Begs.
history: Travel to Gozo was discouraged, and the disease did not spread there.
history: But when the archons saw him, they realize the chief creator of the material world (Yaldabaoth) had lied to them by claiming he was the only god.
history: In 1734 an artillery school was established to impart Western-style artillery methods, but the Islamic clergy successfully objected under the grounds of theodicy.
history: Algeria was ranked 115th in the Global Innovation Index in 2024, and kept the same rank in the index of 2025.
history: Depictions of Libyans in Egyptian reliefs show prominent and numerous tattoos, very similar to traditional Berber tattoos still seen today.
history: Within the social and political system they were living in, Ottoman administrators could not see the desirability of the dynamics and principles of the capitalist and mercantile economies developing in Western Europe.
history: The expedition and its aftermath marked a turning point in Ottoman governance of the Levant as local chieftains were thenceforth frequently appointed as sanjak-beys (district governors).
history: In time, real power came to rest with the pasha's corps of janissaries.
history: Anti-aircraft batteries are used much more extensively to defend against incoming aircraft than interceptors.
history: East of Lombardy, the Republic of Venice was infected in 1630–31.
history: The Three Pashas, leading the CUP autocratically, would control the Empire until fleeing the country at the end of World War I.
history: The converse also holds: If x · y = 0 then x=0 or y=0.
history: United States Department of State.
history: Elon Musk's estimated net worth reached $1 trillion in 2026.
history: France, seeing no end to the discussions, advocated the return of the territory to Italy.
history: After no slates reached a 60% vote threshold, the two leading groups competed in a run-off election.
history: Modern academic consensus posits that the empire began to decline after defeat in the Second Siege of Vienna in 1683, but continued to maintain a flexible and strong economy, society and military into much of the 18th century.
history: ambassador to Libya, J.
history: Crown Prince Rida, Idris's brother, was the designated heir, but the royal family was riddled with incessant disputes.
history: the Chinese title po (Mandarin bó (伯); its historical pronunciation being pak or perjk, as reconstructed by Edwin Pulleyblank), meaning older brother or a feudal lord.
history: When compared with World War II, the First World War is often thought to be "a wrong war fought for the wrong reasons"; it lacks the metanarrative of good versus evil that characterises retellings of the Second World War.
history: 1250), who grew up in North Africa and is credited with introducing the decimal system to Europe, used the term zephyrum.
history: French surgeon Ambroise Paré described the outbreak as having been a "rheumatic affliction of the head...with constriction of the heart and lungs." By August it had appeared in Tours and after it had propagated itself throughout France over summer, sickening the entire country by September.
history: Some people panicked and left the cities for the countryside, left the island or locked themselves in their homes, but there were many others who maintained their daily routines, contributing to the spread of the disease.
history: Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers, New Series 3.3 (1978): 285–294.
history: He then laid siege to Vienna in 1529, but failed to take the city.
history: The epidemic subsided by September, but a second wave began in November.
history: Verdun became a symbol of French determination and self-sacrifice.
history: Since 1975 the number of public universities has grown from two to twelve and since their introduction in 1980, the number of higher technical and vocational institutes has grown to 84.
history: The force blockaded the Lajat field north of Hauran, while Sharif Pasha began negotiations with the insurgents.
history: The following dispute saw the French mortar-bombing Tripoli into submission in 1686.
history: The Red Castle Museum located in the capital near the coast and right in the city centre, built in consultation with UNESCO, may be the country's most famous.
history: There was no unified Arab state, much to Arab nationalists' anger.
history: Austrian statesmen viewed the Balkans as essential for the continued existence of their Empire and saw Serbian expansion as a direct threat.
history: It was the first major war in which the newly established countries fought, and it was one of the first times that Australian troops fought as Australians, not just subjects of the British Crown, and independent national identities for these nations took hold.
history: In Köhbach, Markus; Procházka-Eisl, Gisela; Römer, Claudia (eds.).
history: They included Egypt, Tunisia, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Lebanon.
history: 0 (zero, ) is a number representing an empty quantity.
history: The two main warring sides signed a permanent ceasefire in 2020, and a unity government took authority to plan for democratic elections, though political rivalries continue to delay this.
history: Human Rights Watch has accused the Algerian authorities of using the COVID-19 pandemic as an excuse to prevent pro-democracy movements and protests in the country, leading to the arrest of youths as part of social distancing.
history: In a tablet unearthed at Kish (dating to as early as 700 BC), the scribe Bêl-bân-aplu used three hooks as a placeholder.
history: 1,000,014,129 = 316232, the smallest ten-digit square.
history: At a meeting of the European Parliament Committee on Foreign Affairs on 2 December 2014, UN Special Representative Bernardino León described Libya as a non-state.
history: There is also a small Anglican community, made up mostly of African immigrant workers in Tripoli which is part of the Anglican Diocese of Egypt.
history: ISBN 978-0-7591-0322-1.
history: The Aryabhatiya (c.
history: 1522)
August 20 – Yamanaka Yukimori, Japanese samurai (b.
history: The Italian population then went into decline and Libya became independent as a kingdom in 1951.
history: The initial offensive was a success; after heavy fighting, however, the offensive was halted.
history: In August 1942, Jews from Tripolitania were interned in a concentration camp at Sidi Azaz.
history: Although the government designated over 624 km2 as woodland or forest, this land is covered in scrub and minor vegetation.
history: The 2010–14 public-investment programme will cost US$286 billion, 40% of which will go to human development.
history: Fakhri Pasha, the Ottoman commander of Medina, resisted for more than 2+1⁄2 years during the siege of Medina before surrendering in January 1919.
history: As of January 2013, there was mounting public pressure on the National Congress to set up a constitution-drafting body.
history: Hundreds of others took shelter in the abandoned Ottoman barracks at Beit ed-Dine or the district governor's residence.
history: In desperation, Sultan Mahmud II appealed to the empire's traditional arch-rival Russia for help, asking Emperor Nicholas I to send an expeditionary force to assist him.
history: Due to the strict religious nature of Ibadi society, the imams frequently dealt with internal rebellions, which weakened their authority unless the ruler was particularly charismatic.
history: Pies, Ronald W.
history: Following decisive Druze victories and massacres of the Christians, the conflict spilled over into other parts of Ottoman Syria, particularly Damascus, where thousands of Christian residents were killed by Druze fighters and local Muslim groups.
history: The Portuguese assist Lord Ōmura Sumitada, the first Christian Japanese daimyo, in repulsing an assault on Nagasaki by the Ryūzōji clan.
history: The most recent presidential election was planned to be in April 2019, but widespread protests erupted on 22 February against the president's decision to participate in the election, which resulted in President Bouteflika announcing his resignation on 3 April.
history: A popular hymn sung in many English-speaking Sunday Schools by children is known as "Father Abraham" and emphasizes the patriarch as the spiritual progenitor of Christians.
history: Oxford University Press.
history: The economy remains very dependent on hydrocarbon wealth, and, despite high foreign exchange reserves (US$178 billion, equivalent to three years of imports), current expenditure growth makes Algeria's budget more vulnerable to the risk of prolonged lower hydrocarbon revenues.
history: In Classical Greece, the term had a broader meaning, encompassing the continent that later (second century BC) became known as Africa, which, in antiquity, was assumed to constitute one third of the world's land mass, Europe and Asia combined making up the other two thirds.
history: In 1861, there were 571 primary and 94 secondary schools for Ottoman Christians, with 140,000 pupils in total, a figure that vastly exceeded the number of Muslim children in school at the time, who were further hindered by the amount of time spent learning Arabic and Islamic theology.
history: Early the next morning, Abraham brought Hagar and Ishmael out together.
history: The Republic of Turkey was established in its place on 29 October 1923, in the new capital city of Ankara.
history: 64,336 primes between 5,000,000 and 6,000,000.
history: The pandemic caused significant disruption in government, church, and society with near-universal infection and a mortality rate of around 1%.
history: An engagement with only limited commitment between the forces and without decisive results is sometimes called a skirmish.
history: Eerdmans Dictionary of the Bible.
history: ISBN 978-9918-23-055-6.
history: Allied forces started the Vardar offensive on 15 September at two key points: Dobro Pole and near Dojran Lake.
history: Concurrent British attacks at Arras were more successful, though ultimately of little strategic value.
history: Fearing the election of an Islamist government, the authorities intervened on 11 January 1992, cancelling the elections.
history: While not formal alliances, by settling longstanding colonial disputes in Asia and Africa, British support for France or Russia in any future conflict became a possibility.
history: Between 1920 and 1924, 354,000 Hungarians fled former Hungarian territories attached to Romania, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia.
history: The legend of the "stab in the back" and the wish to revise the "Versailles diktat", and the belief in an international threat aimed at the elimination of the German nation persisted at the heart of German politics.
history: Before casualties became heavy, emergency Ottoman reinforcements led by Yusuf Agha intervened to back the Ottoman garrison led by Uthman Bey, and stopped the fighting in Hasbaya.
history: 'Abdu'l-Bahá described Abraham as the founder of monotheism.
history: According to Qisas al-Anbiya, Adam fell onto a mountain in India, the tallest mountain in the world and so the closest to Heaven, and from there God sent him to Mecca, where he repented and was forgiven.
history: Abram was childless until then, and had anticipated that Eliezer of Damascus, head of his household, would inherit his estate on his death.
history: God reassured Abraham that "in Isaac shall seed be called to thee." He also said Ishmael would make a nation, "because he is thy seed".
history: After a particular house was plundered, it would be set alight.
history: While the plague affected all parts of the city, it disproportionately impacted London's poorer parishes.
history: 10 (ten) is the even natural number following 9 and preceding 11.
