pets: Dam – the female parent of a litter.
pets: Dominant males also mate opportunistically with the females of less dominant neighboring aardwolves, which can result in conflict between rival males.
pets: Created by Lee Suk-woo, the design features a pattern of diagonal ridges on both sides, with the Olympic rings on the front, and the obverse showing the 2018 Olympics' emblem, the event name and the discipline.
pets: The figures for the Aboriginal population shot is likely a substantial undercount.
pets: Stephen Sundlof, director of the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine, says "Melamine is not very toxic as a chemical, so we're wondering why we are seeing the kinds of serious conditions, especially the kidney failure, that we're seeing in cats and dogs...
pets: The two nations paraded together at the opening ceremony as a unified Korea, and fielded a unified team (COR) in the women's ice hockey.
pets: Aboriginal Tribes of Australia: Their Terrain, Environmental Controls, Distribution, Limits, and Proper Names.
pets: The encyclopedia of dog breeds.
pets: Numbers in parentheses indicate the number of medal events contested in each separate discipline.
pets: Some Aboriginal children were sent to the Orphan School in Hobart.
pets: Furthermore, small dogs with longer muzzles have been shown to have higher lifespans than larger medium-sized dogs with much more depressed muzzles.
pets: We had to have confirmed exposure to the recalled pet food, proof of toxicity, and clinical signs of kidney failure.
pets: There are around 450 official dog breeds, the most of any mammal.
pets: By 27 March, Cornell had confirmed the presence of melamine in the originally recalled pet foods, the wheat gluten used in their manufacture, the cells of the dead pets, and in the urine samples from dead and sick pets.
pets: The tail is marked by at least seven pale rings, separated by seven or eight narrow black rings and has a dark tip.
pets: Children with multiple profiles had higher mean scores on frequency of victimization and total number of traumatic or stressful events than did those in the other groups.
pets: Brian Plomley, who edited Robinson's papers, expressed scepticism about these atrocities and notes that they were not reported to Archdeacon William Broughton's 1830 committee of inquiry into violence towards Tasmanians.
pets: vice president Mike Pence met with Fred Warmbier (father of Otto Warmbier, who had died after being released from captivity in North Korea) and a group of North Korean defectors in Pyeongchang.
pets: Milk production lasts for around three months, and increases with litter size.
pets: Robinson, who gathered ethnographic data in the early 1800s, described Aboriginal political groups at the clan level only.
pets: The majority of recalled foods have come from a single company, Menu Foods of Streetsville, Ontario.
pets: Despite being an omnivore, dogs are only able to conjugate bile acid with taurine.
pets: In a study of 412 dogs, around 36.5% of the dogs could not swim; the other 63.5% were able to swim without a trainer in a swimming pool.
pets: Research has focused on the combination of melamine and cyanuric acid in causing kidney failure.
pets: In the United States there was extensive media coverage of the recall, with calls for greater government regulation.
pets: Some dog-trainers have promoted a dominance model of dog-human relationships.
pets: By 1837, the Letteremairrenner had disappeared completely from the Tamar Valley and would eventually die in the squalor of Wybalenna or Oyster Cove.
pets: Contemporary understanding and use of language and group names continue to evolve through community-led cultural revitalisation.
pets: The kelp baskets or carriers were used mainly to carry and serve water.
pets: This was South Korea's third consecutive bid for the Winter Olympics, having been defeated by Vancouver and Sochi respectively in the final rounds of voting for the 2010 and 2014 Games.
pets: Neoplasia is the most common cause of death for dogs.
pets: This makes the aardwolf the smallest extant member of the Hyaenidae family.
pets: What is known of the composition of the North Midlands nation derives from settler description (who ascribed simple tribal divisions based upon locality) and direct attribution from contemporary Aboriginal Tasmanians (recorded by Robinson, collated by Plomley) and later researched by Rhys Jones.
pets: The first tasks of the organising committee were putting together a master plan for the Games as well as forming a design for the venues.
pets: The Tyeerrernotepanner, along with clansmen from other remnant tribes, conducted raids across the midlands during the Black War and, until "conciliated" by Robinson, were the subject of fearful reminiscence by colonial people.
pets: Lake Leake (previously Kearney's Bogs), Campbell Town, Ellinthorpe Plains (near modern-day Auburn), and Tooms Lake were described as "resorts of the natives" by settlers and showed substantial evidence of seasonal occupation.
pets: Dogs have made 11 vertebrate species extinct and are identified as a 'potential threat' to at least 188 threatened species worldwide.
pets: They had good relations with the Ben Lomond nation and were granted seasonal access to the resources of the north-east coast.
pets: Running south past the eastern bend of the South-Esk, it appears that the North Midlands Nation held land to some extent along the south bank of the Esk, at least as far as Avoca and possibly as far as the natural boundary of the St Pauls River, beyond which the Oyster Bay nation were resident.
pets: Ltd., the two companies linked to the contaminated products.
pets: The classification of dingoes is disputed and a political issue in Australia.
pets: Dogs have been bred for desired behaviors, sensory capabilities, and physical attributes.
pets: This marked the second time that South Korea had hosted the Olympic Games (having previously hosted the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul), as well as the first time it hosted the Winter Olympics.
pets: The contact was peaceful.
pets: Most domestic animals were initially bred for the production of goods.
pets: The typical lifespan of dogs varies widely among breeds, but the median longevity (the age at which half the dogs in a population have died and half are still alive) is about 12.7 years.
pets: It is listed as Data Deficient on the IUCN Red List.
pets: These genes are linked to neural crest and central nervous system development.
pets: In Poland, if employees themselves, or anyone under their care including children and elders, falls ill, sick leave can be applied.
pets: In some parts of Poland and Central Asia, dog fat is reportedly believed to be beneficial for the lungs.
pets: Before British colonisation in 1803, Tasmanian Aboriginal communities maintained distinct languages, cultural traditions, and regional identities across Tasmania, with communities organised through family and clan groups connected to particular territories and seasonal movement patterns.
pets: On 5 August 2011, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) announced the formation of the Pyeongchang 2018 Coordination Commission.
pets: Dingo classification affects wildlife management policies, legislation, and societal attitudes.
pets: After word of the recall and reports of animal deaths began to spread, Menu Foods was served with several individual lawsuits over the deaths of affected pets.
pets: Discovery/Eurosport won four categories: Best On-Air Promotion, Best Production Design, Best Innovation and Best Social Media Content/Production; they also came second in the Best Olympic Digital Service category.
pets: The primary type of dog raised for meat in South Korea has been the Nureongi.
pets: An adult aardwolf weighs approximately 7–10 kg (15–22 lb), sometimes reaching 15 kg (33 lb).
pets: Aboriginal roads, markenner, are described as passing up the Eastern Tiers to Swanport, up the Western Tier to Interlaken, and up the Lake River to Woods Lake and thence to the Central Highlands.
pets: Absenteeism is a habitual pattern of absence from a duty or obligation without good reason.
pets: pets be fed products containing U.
pets: The same may be said of the use of clothes ...
pets: ATSC 3.0 digital terrestrial television, using 4K resolution, was introduced in South Korea in 2017 in time for the Olympics.
pets: Furthermore, Robinson recorded that members of some clans held an animistic regard for certain species of trees within their domain.
pets: There are no recorded significant archaeological remains in the Gorge precinct, although the area was subject to significant seasonal flooding before damming.
pets: This trade involved not only women of the tribe engaged in it but also women abducted from other tribes.
pets: In return, the North West nation had free access to the ochre mines 
Relatively isolated, the region was first explored by Europeans in 1824, when the Van Diemen's Land Company was granted 250,000 acres (100,000 ha), including the greater part of the clan's hunting grounds.
pets: Tasmanian Aboriginal skulls were particularly sought internationally for studies into craniofacial anthropometry.
pets: Since 2007, initiatives have been introduced to introduce DNA testing to establish family history within descendant subgroups.
pets: When food is scarce, the stringent territorial system may be abandoned and as many as three pairs may occupy a single territory.
pets: In Tindale, Norman Barnett (ed.).
pets: In some areas, they are persecuted because of the mistaken belief that they prey on livestock; however, they are actually beneficial to the farmers because they eat termites that are detrimental.
pets: There is disagreement as to whether the species is monotypic, or can be divided into subspecies.
pets: The record was previously held by fellow Norwegian athlete Ole Einar Bjørndalen who has thirteen Olympic medals.
pets: The Aboriginal people traded kangaroo skins for such goods.
pets: As an aardwolf ages, it will typically lose some of its teeth, though this has little impact on its feeding habits due to the softness of the insects that it eats.
pets: Body parts and ornaments are still being returned from collections today, with the Royal College of Surgeons of England returning samples of Truganini's skin and hair (in 2002), and the British Museum returning ashes to two descendants in 2007.
pets: Rapid pastoral expansion, a depletion of native game, and an increase in the colony's population triggered Aboriginal resistance from 1824 onwards, when it is estimated by Lyndall Ryan that 1,000 Aboriginal people remained in the settled districts.
pets: Spoken recordings are extremely rare, with the best-known examples being recordings of Fanny Cochrane Smith singing traditional songs in 1899 and 1903.
pets: Genetic studies suggest a domestication process commencing over 25,000 years ago, in one or several wolf populations in either Europe, the high Arctic, or eastern Asia.
pets: Germany forbids early-age neutering, but neutering is still allowed at the usual age.
pets: Premature graying can occur in dogs as early as one year of age; this is associated with impulsive behaviors, anxiety behaviors, and fear of unfamiliar noise, people, or animals.
pets: The IOC's decision was heavily criticised by Jack Robertson, primary investigator of the Russian doping program on behalf of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), in whose opinion the judgement was commercially and politically motivated.
pets: The keeping of dogs as companions, particularly by elites, has a long history.
pets: Scientists were interested in studying Aboriginal Tasmanians from a physical anthropology perspective, hoping to gain insights into the field of paleoanthropology.
pets: Truganini belonged to the Nuenonne people of Bruny Island, known traditionally as Lunawanna-alonnah.
pets: Russian figure skater Alina Zagitova set a new ISU best short program score of 82.92 in Ladies' single skating.
pets: Whelps – puppies still dependent upon their dam.
pets: The enlargement of the violet gland in the tail, which can create a bald spot from hair loss, can be caused by Cushing's disease or an excess of sebum from androgens in the sebaceous glands.
pets: Linnaeus 1758 Classification of Animals on the Taxonomicon
pets: The global dog population is estimated at 700 million to 1 billion, distributed around the world.
pets: The 2018 Winter Olympics were used to showcase 5G wireless technologies, as part of a collaboration between domestic wireless sponsor KT, and worldwide sponsor Intel.
pets: That this house, on behalf of all Tasmanian[s] ...
pets: Shortly thereafter (by about 1800), sealers were regularly left on uninhabited islands in Bass Strait during the sealing season (November to May).
pets: Since the mid-1970s, Tasmanian Aboriginal activists such as Michael Mansell have sought to broaden awareness and identification of Aboriginal descent.
pets: Rabies is a disease for which dogs are the most significant vector.
pets: In addition, the following fossil Acinonyx species were described:
pets: Data from the Pet Poison Helpline shows that human drugs are the most frequent cause of toxicosis death.
pets: Their personality traits include hypersocial behavior, boldness, and aggression.
pets: Humans communicate with dogs by using vocalization, hand signals, and body posture.
pets: Canadian figure skaters Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir set a new ISU best short dance score of 83.67 and a new ISU best combined total score of 206.07 in ice dance.
pets: Siberian tigers in the Amur river region have killed dogs in the middle of villages.
pets: These genes have been shown to affect the catecholamine synthesis pathway, with the majority of the genes affecting the fight-or-flight response (i.e., selection for tameness) and emotional processing.
pets: An Irish sealer named Brien spared the life of the baby son of a native woman he had abducted, explaining, "as (he) had stolen the dam he would keep the cub".
pets: Several similar species classified in the genus Miracinonyx lived in North America at the same time; these may have been more closely related to the genus Puma.
pets: Behavioral scientists suggest that a set of social-cognitive abilities in domestic dogs that are not possessed by the dog's canine relatives or other highly intelligent mammals, such as great apes, are parallel to children's social-cognitive skills.
pets: Some states define the monetary value of a pet for litigation or insurance purposes.
pets: This shows that, like mainland Australia, Aboriginal art is dynamic and evolving from established post-colonial preconceptions.
pets: Diamond, Jared (1999).
pets: Additionally, a study found that dogs' visual acuity was up to eight times less effective than a human, and their ability to discriminate levels of brightness was about two times worse than a human.
pets: As a result of their loss of freedom, the birth rate was extremely low, and few children survived infancy.
pets: A positive reinforcement meaning that the student will receive either more attention from their parent or guardian, or receive tangible benefits from not going to school.
pets: The lower most part of whiskers hold more receptor cells than other hair types, which help in alerting dogs of objects that could collide with the nose, ears, and jaw.
pets: Han Chinese traditionally ate dogs.
pets: Human guardians are significantly less likely to die within one year of an acute myocardial infarction than those who do not own dogs.
pets: All healthy dogs, regardless of their size and type, have the same number of bones (with the exception of the tail), although there is significant skeletal variation between dogs of different types.
pets: For centuries, the practice was prevalent in Southeast Asia, East Asia, Africa, and Oceania before cultural changes triggered by the spread of religions resulted in dog meat consumption declining and becoming more taboo.
pets: In Welsh mythology, Cŵn Annwn guards Annwn.
pets: The aardwolf (Proteles cristatus) is an insectivorous hyaenid species, native to East and Southern Africa.
pets: Other references are made to an Island of the Dead, tini drini, described as "an island in Bass Strait" where the dead would be reincarnated or "jump up white men".
pets: Aboriginal people have considered the dispersal of body parts as being disrespectful, as a common aspect within Aboriginal belief systems is that a soul can only be at rest when laid in its homeland.
pets: One month after the initial recall, contaminated rice protein from a different source in China was also identified as being associated with kidney failure in pets in the United States, while contaminated corn gluten was associated with kidney failure with pets in South Africa.
pets: Columbia University Press, New York.
pets: Roth wrote:
pets: However, by the time George Augustus Robinson began documenting his journals in 1829, only four groups totalling approximately 160–200 individuals were officially recorded.
pets: ASPCA Pet Food Recall Resource Center FAQ and recall list, brought to you by the experts at the ASPCA Animal Poison Control Center.
pets: These problems played a huge role in the extinction of the historic Acinonyx species.
pets: However, the Society for Theriogenology and the American College of Theriogenologists made a joint statement that opposes mandatory neutering; they said that the cause of overpopulation in the US is cultural.
pets: Artworks have depicted dogs as symbols of guidance, protection, loyalty, fidelity, faithfulness, alertness, and love.
pets: Therefore, the American Society of Mammalogists currently considers Proteles cristatus and Proteles septentrionalis to be separate species.
pets: Australian Aboriginal Studies.
pets: Felis venatica by Griffith in 1821 was based on a sketch of a cheetah from India.
pets: It was home to the Olympic Stadium, the Olympic Village and most of the outdoor sports venues.
pets: Many historians of colonialism and genocide, such as Ben Kiernan, Colin Tatz, and Benjamin Madley, consider that the Tasmanian decimation qualifies as genocide by the definition of Raphael Lemkin adopted in the UN Genocide Convention.
pets: The plaintiffs have specifically accused Menu Foods of fraud, claiming the company may have known of a problem as early as December.
pets: National Museum of Australia
List of multiple killings of Aborigines in Tasmania: 1804–1835 by Lyndall Ryan, 5 March 2008
pets: This movement has been associated with the Western Tasmanian Aboriginal people.
pets: Given this, the clan boundaries and nomadic patterns discussed below should be treated with caution unless supported by primary documents.
pets: At the peak of the cycle, females will become estrous, mentally and physically receptive to copulation.
pets: Due to their long association with humans, dogs have gained the ability to thrive on a starch-rich diet that would be inadequate for other canids.
pets: The Ministry of Unification stated that "there is a limitation in pinpointing who was responsible for the incident." Although he is subject to sanctions, they did not affect his ability to visit the country for the Games.
pets: In China, Korea, and Japan, dogs are viewed as kind protectors.
pets: Some dogs can be born without tails because of a DNA variant in the T gene, which can also result in a congenitally short (bobtail) tail.
pets: Three clan names are known, but their locations are somewhat conjectural – the clans were recorded as Plangermaireener, Plindermairhemener, and Tonenerweenerlarmenne.
pets: Both sexes of dogs may also urinate to communicate anxiety or frustration, submissiveness, or when in exciting or relaxing situations.
pets: Australian Aboriginal health Infonet.
pets: The traditional view held that this dramatic demographic collapse was the result of the impact of introduced diseases, rather than the consequence of policy.
pets: The first known British contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians was on Bruny Island by Captain Cook in 1777.
pets: The colonial Government assigned troops to drive them out.
pets: Though ochre is mined from sites throughout Tasmania, the most celebrated source is Toolumbunner in the Gog Range of NW Tasmania, in the traditional lands of the Pallitorre clan.
pets: The majority of camps were along river valleys, adjacent north-facing hill slopes, and on gentle slopes bordering a forest or marsh (Brown 1986).
pets: Several researchers assert that there was a belief in a Manichaean cosmos with a "good" and "bad" spirit, delineated by day and night, although this may reflect the observers' cultural bias.
pets: Other historians, including Geoffrey Blainey and Keith Windschuttle, point to introduced disease as the main cause of the destruction of the full-blooded Tasmanian Aboriginal population.
pets: The Olympic torch entered South Korea on 1 November 2017.
pets: Dogs' senses include vision, hearing, smell, taste, touch, and magnetoreception.
pets: Six nations made their Winter Olympics debuts: Ecuador, Eritrea, Kosovo, Malaysia, Nigeria and Singapore.
pets: International Olympic Committee.
pets: Battles and funerals were also occasions for painting the body with ochre or black paint.
pets: Ace presumptively died sometime after 1946.
pets: It was also the first Winter Olympics held in mainland Asia, and the first of three consecutive Olympic Games held in East Asia, preceding the Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympics in Japan and the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics in China.
pets: The scientific evidence is mixed as to whether a dog's companionship can enhance human physical and psychological well-being.
pets: Contrary to popular myths, aardwolves do not eat carrion, and if they are seen eating while hunched over a dead carcass, they are actually eating larvae and beetles.
pets: Broadcast rights to the 2018 Winter Olympics were already sold in some countries as part of long-term broadcast rights deals, including the Games' local rightsholder SBS, which in July 2011 had extended its rights to the Olympics through 2024.
pets: The International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature therefore chose 1 January 1758 as the "starting point" for zoological nomenclature and asserted that the 10th edition of Systema Naturae was to be treated as if published on that date.
pets: Also, contrary to some sources, they do not like meat, unless it is finely ground or cooked for them.
pets: Metaldehyde, a common pesticide for snails and slugs, typically causes severe outcomes when ingested by dogs.
pets: Robinson describes "horse-dance" depicting a horseman hunting an Aboriginal person, as well as the sensual "devil-dance" performed by women from the Furneaux Islands.
pets: Tasmanian Aboriginal women have traditionally collected Maireener shells to fashion necklaces and bracelets.
pets: Since then, dogs have undergone rapid phenotypic change and have been subjected to artificial selection by humans.
pets: Several different species of plants were used, including white flag iris, blue flax lily, rush, and sag, some of which are still used by contemporary basket makers, and sometimes shells are added for ornament.
pets: cans and Nutra Nuggets Lamb Meal and Rice Formula dry dog food
The American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) maintains a combined list of all recalled pet food varieties.
pets: Dog bites affect tens of millions of people globally each year.
pets: Despite this public show of co-operation, there were numerous misgivings voiced by leading Russian politicians, including a statement from Putin himself saying that he believed the United States had used its influence within the IOC to "orchestrate the doping scandal".
pets: Aardwolves also have scent glands on the forefoot and penile pad.
pets: Historians continue to debate whether these events constituted genocide under the United Nations Genocide Convention.
pets: People moving into Tasmania would have crossed stretches of seawater and dry country before reaching more habitable environments, including the highlands of what is now King Island in Bass Strait.
pets: The questions of when and where dogs were first domesticated remains uncertain.
pets: Frankfurt Zoo in Germany was home to the oldest recorded aardwolf in captivity at 18 years and 11 months.
pets: As Aboriginal communities were displaced and reduced in number during the colonial period, many languages disappeared before they could be properly documented.
pets: Others include Rin Tin Tin (billed during his 1930 radio show as "Rin Tin Tin, the Wonder Dog"), Pal the Wonder Dog, Gaspode the Wonder Dog, Rex the Wonder Dog from silent films, and another unrelated Rex the Wonder Dog from DC Comics.
pets: By the end of March, veterinary organizations reported more than 100 pet deaths among nearly 500 cases of kidney failure.
pets: Compared to humans, dogs possess a superior sense of smell and hearing, but inferior visual acuity.
pets: For free-ranging dogs, less than 1 in 5 reach sexual maturity, and the median life expectancy for feral dogs is less than half of dogs living with humans.
pets: The exact prices were determined through market research; around 50% of the tickets were expected to cost about ₩80,000 (~US$70) or less, and tickets in sports that are relatively unknown in the region, such as biathlon and luge, were made cheaper in order to encourage attendance.
pets: Dogs' dewclaws consist of the proximal phalanges and distal phalanges.
pets: Shell necklace manufacture continues to maintain links with the past, expressed as a modern art form.
pets: The dog is a domestic animal that likely travelled a commensal pathway into domestication (i.e.
pets: There is however, a step by step process identified by Evie Bald, to manage absenteeism.
pets: The IOC found it important to note that CAS Secretary General "insisted that the CAS decision does not mean that these 28 athletes are innocent" and that they would consider an appeal against the court's decision.
pets: During the summer, they may rest outside their den during the night and sleep underground during the heat of the day.
pets: Conversely, and somewhat controversially, eight of the eleven biathlon events were scheduled at night, making it necessary for competitors to ski and shoot under floodlights, with colder temperatures and blustery winds.
pets: The sealers sent a representative, James Munro, to appeal to Governor George Arthur and argue for the women's return, on the basis that they wanted to stay with their sealer husbands and children rather than marry Aboriginal men unknown to them.
pets: Dogs, on the other hand, were selectively bred for desirable behavioral traits.
pets: Of the twenty-one amino acids common to all life forms (including selenocysteine), dogs cannot synthesize ten: arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, and valine.
pets: The clan country overlapped with that of the Panninher and Tyrrernotepanner, and it is likely that, at times, the clans shared resources across clan borders.
pets: They breathe by means of gills, which are generally united by a bony arch; swim by means of radiate fins, and are mostly covered over with cartilaginous scales.
pets: Some studies have suggested that the extinct Japanese wolf is closely related to the ancestor of domestic dogs.
pets: Negative attributions about absence then bring about three outcomes: the behavior is open to social control, sensitive to social context, and is a potential source of workplace conflict.
pets: While no consensus exists as to the cause of the decimation of the Aboriginal Tasmanian population, many scholars consider the decimation to constitute a genocide.
pets: This major social status shift allowed the dog to conform to social expectations of personality and behavior.
pets: According to Ryan, the population of Tasmania was aligned into nine nations composed of six to fifteen clans each, with each clan comprising two to six extended family units who were relations.
pets: South Korea's Yun Sung-Bin won a gold medal in men's skeleton racing, the first Olympic gold ever won by Asia in the sledding event.
pets: Whole tribes (some of which Robinson mentions by name as being in existence fifteen or twenty years before he went amongst them, and which probably never had a shot fired at them) had absolutely and entirely vanished.
pets: Jewish law does not prohibit keeping dogs and other pets but requires Jews to feed dogs (and other animals that they own) before themselves and to make arrangements for feeding them before obtaining them.
pets: Some European countries have similar laws to Norway, but their wording either explicitly allows for neutering for controlling reproduction or it is allowed in practice or by contradiction through other laws.
pets: Proponents of eating dog meat have argued that placing a distinction between livestock and dogs is Western hypocrisy and that there is no difference in eating different animals' meat.
pets: France later reaffirmed its participation.
pets: Its lower leg (from the knee down) is all black, and its tail is bushy with a black tip.
pets: This is strongly opposed by the Palawa and has drawn an angry reaction from some quarters, as some have claimed "spiritual connection" with Aboriginality distinct from, but not as important as, the existence of a genetic link.
pets: District Court Judge Hillman has ordered Menu Foods to have no contact with plaintiffs unless their attorneys are involved in the discussion, after lawyers from six firms representing pet owners claimed the company illegally attempted to contact their clients directly.
pets: The "devil" might also be used to describe malevolent spiritual entities in the Aboriginal cosmos.
pets: A study hypothesizes that the behavior was inherited from wolves, a behavior likely evolved to lessen the presence of intestinal parasites in dens.
pets: There are positive and negative reinforcements regarding student absenteeism.
pets: Dogs demonstrate a theory of mind by engaging in deception.
pets: Moinee appears as the primeval creator, forming the land and rivers of Tasmania and fashioning the first man, Parlevar – embodied from a spirit residing in the ground.
pets: Dogs compete in breed-conformation shows and dog sports (including racing, sledding, and agility competitions).
pets: The opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics was held at the Pyeongchang Olympic Stadium on 9 February 2018.
pets: In 1832, he revisited the west coast of Tasmania, far from the settled regions, and wrote: "The numbers of Aborigines along the western coast have been considerably reduced since the time of my last visit [1830].
pets: Equally, there is normally one initial reason, referred to as "the trigger point", for the students' non-attendance.
pets: Captain Ritchie, an early settler near Perth, tolerated, or fostered, forays by his assigned men against the Panninher, and this culminated in a massacre by settlers near modern-day Cressy.
pets: By the early 1800s, the Letteremairrener had been involved in skirmishes with colonial exploratory parties.
pets: Hillman has said "It seems to me that Menu Foods is out to do whatever Menu Foods wants to do in a way that could adversely impact the rights" of the plaintiffs.
pets: Switzerland, Polynesia, and pre-Columbian Mexico historically consumed dog meat.
pets: To the causes to which he attributes this strange wasting away ...
pets: Stories of dogs guarding the gates of the underworld recur throughout Indo-European mythologies and may originate from Proto-Indo-European traditions.
pets: Within the second half of the 20th century, more and more dog owners considered their animal to be a part of the family.
pets: ISBN 978-0-393-60929-5.
pets: This is a misnomer, as the Pennyroyal Creek was the original European name for the Liffey River and the Pennyroyal Creek tribe was the contemporary name of the Panninher clan of the North Midlands nation.
pets: Tasmanian Aboriginal communities survived, particularly through descendants of Aboriginal women in Tasmania and the Bass Strait islands, and continued to maintain and revive cultural traditions and community identity.
pets: In some hunting dogs, the tail is traditionally docked to avoid injuries.
pets: Pyeongchang was elected as the host city at the 123rd IOC Session in Durban, South Africa, on 6 July 2011, earning the necessary majority of at least 48 votes in just one round of voting.
pets: The necklaces were initially only made out of the shells of the Phasianotrochus irisodontes snail, commonly known as the rainbow kelp and usually referred to as maireener shells.
pets: This genus represents a highly adapted lineage within the felids, which specialize in speed and open-terrain hunting.
pets: In Norse mythology, a dog called Garmr guards Hel, a realm of the dead.
pets: In 1957, the dog Laika became one of the first animals to be launched into Earth orbit aboard the Soviets's Sputnik 2; Laika died during the flight from overheating.
pets: In the United States, cats and dogs are a factor in more than 86,000 falls each year.
pets: As the female comes into oestrus, they add pasting to their tricks inside of the other territories, sometimes doing so more in rivals' territories than their own.
pets: Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre.
pets: During the first decades of British settlement in the 19th century, Aboriginal communities in Tasmania were devastated by introduced diseases, frontier violence, dispossession, and forced removal during the Black War.
pets: The second has been the broadening of the concepts of family and the home to include dogs-as-dogs within everyday routines and practices.
pets: At first, contact with the Aboriginal people was friendly; however, the Aboriginal Tasmanians became alarmed when another boat was dispatched towards the shore.
pets: The number of athletes who qualified per country is listed in the table below (number of athletes shown in parentheses).
pets: During these times, the southern aardwolf will seek out Hodotermes mossambicus, a type of harvester termite active in the afternoon, which explains some of their diurnal behavior in the winter.
pets: In the 1980s, there have been changes in the pet dog's functions, such as the increased role of dogs in the emotional support of their human guardians.
pets: Despite the presence of the industrial chemical in both the food and in the animals, the FDA has made it clear they are still in the middle of an extensive investigation, and "not yet fully certain that melamine is the causative agent."
pets: As a precautionary measure, Menu Foods also recalled all brands of food with wheat gluten in them even though the source of the gluten was not the same as the source behind the contaminated findings.
pets: This increased to over 50% in 2020, suggesting changing attitudes, particularly among younger individuals.
pets: In 1758, the Swedish botanist and zoologist Carl Linnaeus assigned the genus name Canis (which is the Latin word for "dog") to the domestic dog, the wolf, and the golden jackal in his book, Systema Naturae.
pets: The US$100 million facility was only intended to be used for the opening and closing ceremonies of these Olympics and the subsequent Paralympics; it was demolished following their conclusion.
pets: Olympics.com.
pets: The colonial settlers made little distinction between Panninher and members of the "Stony Creek tribe," and it is likely that the North Midlands nation had disintegrated, with the amalgamated band known by this time as the "Stony Creek tribe" under the overarching name.
pets: One tactic companies use to combat unplanned absences is the notion of paying back unused sick time.
pets: The aardwolf resembles a much smaller and thinner striped hyena, with a more slender muzzle, black vertical stripes on a coat of yellowish fur, and a long, distinct mane down the midline of the neck and back.
pets: This notwithstanding, the Palawa were a nomadic people and likely occupied these lands seasonally.
pets: In mythology, dogs often appear as pets or as watchdogs.
pets: The most common substances people report exposure to are: pharmaceuticals, toxic foods, and rodenticides.
pets: Nearly every workplace that has a bully in charge will have elevated staff turnover and absenteeism.
pets: On 9 January 2024, the South Korean parliament passed a law banning the distribution and sale of dog meat.
pets: Initially, the recalls were associated with the consumption of mostly wet pet foods made with wheat gluten from a single Chinese company.
pets: The Sunni Maliki school jurists disagree with the idea that dogs are unclean.
pets: The economic impact on the pet food market has been extensive, with Menu Foods alone losing at least $42 million from the recall, even without taking into account reduced sales.
pets: Although wolves are known to kill dogs, wolves tend to live in pairs in areas where they are highly persecuted, giving them a disadvantage when facing large dog groups.
pets: The majority of incursions occur during mating season, when they can occur once or twice per week.
pets: adultness was found to outweigh infancy everywhere in a remarkable degree ..."
Robinson recorded in his journals a number of comments regarding the Aboriginal Tasmanians' susceptibility to diseases, particularly respiratory diseases.
pets: Aardwolves are not fast runners nor are they particularly adept at fighting off predators.
pets: The 2018 Games featured 102 events over 15 disciplines, a record number of events for the Winter Games.
pets: One has been called "corobery", although that is a mainland Aboriginal word adopted by British settlers.
pets: The cases involved 235 cats and 112 dogs, with 61 percent of the cats and 74 percent of the dogs having died.
pets: The sealers established semi-permanent camps or settlements on the islands, which were close enough for the sealers to reach the main island of Tasmania in small boats and so make contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians.
pets: Jones, Rhys (1974).
pets: You could see crystals in the wheat gluten."
In addition to wheat gluten, products containing rice protein have also been contaminated with melamine.
pets: Generally, absenteeism refers to unplanned absences.
pets: They will not tolerate wolves as competitors within their territories, and the tigers could be considering dogs in the same way.
pets: In North Korea where meat is scarce, eating dog is a common and accepted practice, officially promoted by the government.
pets: A study with Rico, a Border Collie, showed that he knew the labels of over 200 different items.
pets: During certain seasonal events, such as the onset of the rainy season and the cold of midwinter, the primary termites become scarce, so the need for other foods becomes pronounced.
pets: Pleistocene Palawa language group – the first ethnic and language group in Tasmania; absorbed or displaced by successive invasions except for a remnant group on the Tasman Peninsula.
pets: Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
pets: It is likely that the west Tamar valley, or the Meander river valley formed the NNW boundaries of the North Midlands nation – with the arc of highlands formed by Cluan Tier and Dry's Bluff forming the northwestern extremity of their country.
pets: The aardwolves in the south of the continent tend to be slightly smaller (about 10 kg (22 lb)) than the eastern version (around 14 kg (31 lb)).
pets: The hosts, South Korea, ranked seventh overall at the 2018 Winter Games, with five gold medals and 17 overall medals.
pets: Missing school can be a habit-forming behavior and can be challenging to deal with despite growing awareness of the causes of absenteeism.
pets: Aboriginal Tasmanians are the Aboriginal people of the Australian island of Tasmania, located south of the mainland.
pets: Authors such as Ida West have written autobiographies recounting their experiences growing up within white society; Phyllis Pitchford, Errol West and Jim Everett have written poetry, while Everett and Greg Lehman have explored their tradition as essayists.
pets: Some studies have posited that all living wolves are more closely related to each other than to dogs, while others have suggested that dogs are more closely related to modern Eurasian wolves than to American wolves.
pets: Lemkin himself considered Tasmania to be the site of one of the world's clear cases of genocide and Robert Hughes has described the loss of Aboriginal Tasmanians as "the only true genocide in English colonial history".
pets: viewers, the figure skating events were scheduled with morning start times to accommodate primetime broadcasts in the Americas.
pets: If they are patrolling their territorial boundaries, the marking frequency increases drastically, to once every 50 m (160 ft).
pets: Two later French expeditions, led by Bruni d'Entrecasteaux in 1792–93 and Nicolas Baudin in 1802, made friendly contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians; the d'Entrecasteaux expedition did so over an extended period.
pets: The psychological model that discusses this is the "withdrawal model", which assumes that absenteeism represents individual withdrawal from dissatisfying working conditions.
pets: These classes were ultimately created by studying the internal anatomy, as seen in his key:
pets: More than twenty individuals documented words and phrases during the colonial period, including English, Scottish, Danish, and French recorders.
pets: Acinonyx species are also unable to retract their claws fully, this can be a disadvantage in some cases.
pets: There are two distinct populations: one in Southern Africa, and another in East and Northeast Africa.
pets: Archaeological evidence suggests that small Aboriginal Tasmanian populations living on the highlands of what are now King Island and the Furneaux Group became stranded by rising waters after the formation of Bass Strait and later died out.
pets: Menu Foods: Over 50 brands of dog food, and over 40 brands of cat food.
pets: This happens during the coldest periods as they then stay in at night to conserve heat.
pets: They will experience subsequent estrous cycles semiannually, during which the body prepares for pregnancy.
pets: They are not common throughout their range, as they maintain a density of no more than 1 per square kilometer, if food is abundant.
pets: The official Government position was that Aboriginal people were blameless for any hostilities, but when Musquito was hanged in 1825, a significant debate was generated which split the colonists along class lines.
pets: television ratings when possible, due to the substantial fees paid by NBC for rights to the Olympics (which have been extended through 2032 with a nearly $8 billion agreement), the company being one of IOC's major sources of revenue.
pets: The clan divisions of the southern central Midlands are suggested below.
pets: World Animal Protection estimated in 2011 that three-quarters of the world's dog population lives as feral, village, or community dogs.
pets: Tasmanian Aboriginal people would describe these entities as "devils" and related that these spiritual beings would walk alongside Aboriginal people, "carrying a torch but could not be seen".
pets: Pyeongchang 2018 Archived 6 November 2017 at the Wayback Machine
pets: Dogs have stiff, deeply embedded hairs known as whiskers that sense atmospheric changes, vibrations, and objects not visible in low light conditions.
pets: The Dingo Debate: Origins, Behaviour and Conservation.
pets: David Collins arrived as the colony's first lieutenant governor in February 1804 with instructions from London that any acts of violence against the Aboriginal people were to be punished.
pets: In the following weeks, several other companies that had received the contaminated wheat gluten also voluntarily recalled dozens of pet food brands.
pets: He was also the first man to win a total of eight Olympic medals in speed skating.
pets: Hearings for the remaining three athletes were postponed.
pets: Even though many of the Aboriginal people managed to avoid capture during these events, they were shaken by the size of the campaigns against them, and this brought them to a position where they were willing to surrender to Robinson and move to Flinders Island.
pets: The lawyers filing the federal lawsuit noted Washington state, which has jurisdiction, had a history of favorable consumer protection precedents in prior pet-related lawsuits, but finding a set value for the lost pets may be difficult.
pets: Humans have consumed dog meat going back at least 14,000 years.
pets: Almost all of the foods are wet foods, specifically the 'cuts and gravy' varieties.
pets: Their primary source, Trinervitermes, forages in small but dense patches of 25–100 cm (9.8–39.4 in).
pets: While occasional school absenteeism may not be problematic, excessive absenteeism has shown to have a negative impact.
pets: A newspaper reported that there were only two solutions to the problem: either they should be "hunted down like wild beasts and destroyed," or they should be removed from the settled districts.
pets: The extended duration and broad range of fossil records suggests the long evolutionary presence across the old world into the present day.
pets: Dogs mark their territories by urinating on them, which is more likely when entering a new environment.
pets: He later revised this to 3,000 to 5,000 for the entire island, based on historical sources.
pets: Truganini herself feared that her body would be exploited after her death, and two years after she died, her body was exhumed and sent to Melbourne for scientific study.
pets: HarperCollins (2021).
pets: The dog (Canis familiaris or Canis lupus familiaris) is a domesticated descendant of wolves.
pets: As a result of the cost of absenteeism, employees can feel obliged to work while ill, and transmit communicable diseases to their co-workers.
pets: These practices also increased conflict among the men of different Aboriginal tribes.
pets: Because of the talks, held on 9 January, North Korea agreed to field athletes in Pyeongchang.
pets: The largest, though fewest in number, inhabit the ocean."
Linnaeus divided the mammals based upon the number, situation, and structure of their teeth, into the following orders and genera:
pets: A number of shell necklaces are held in the collection of the National Museum of Australia.
pets: Dogs, wolves, and dingoes have sometimes been classified as separate species.
pets: trinervoides.
pets: Nevertheless, clans that shared a geographic region and language group are now usually classified by modern ethnographers as a nation, the Palawa.
pets: The front feet have five toes each, unlike the four-toed hyena.
pets: According to Hugh Lewis, who analyzed the results for Banfield, extrapolating to the United States cat population may mean "several hundred cats a week across the country" were affected.
pets: The official emblem, reflecting ice crystals and derived from the hangul letters ㅍ and ㅊ—the initial sounds of "Pyeong" and "Chang"—was unveiled on 3 May 2013.
pets: It is plausible that when Robinson was writing in 1830, the remnant peoples of the Ben Lomond nation had federated with that of the Panninher, and this was the provenance of the conjoined title.
pets: Although there are many theories to treating absenteeism, there is no universal treatment.
pets: A 2017 survey found that under 40% of participants supported a ban on the distribution and consumption of dog meat.
pets: Medical-based understanding of absenteeism finds support in research that links absenteeism for medical reasons with mental and behavioral disorders, diseases of the digestive system, neoplasms, and diseases of the genitourinary system.
pets: Dogs perform many roles for people, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and the military, companionship, and aiding disabled individuals.
pets: *   Host nation (South Korea)
pets: She also became the first speed skater (male or female) to win ten Winter Olympic medals and the first female Winter Olympian to win nine individual medals.
pets: The three basic skull shapes are the elongated dolichocephalic type as seen in sighthounds, the intermediate mesocephalic or mesaticephalic type, and the very short and broad brachycephalic type exemplified by mastiff type skulls.
pets: However claws give extra traction while running.
pets: S.-sourced protein supplements only."
pets: It is also distinguished by the lack of hair between the metacarpal and digital pads of the forepaws.
pets: One study indicated that wheelchair-users experience more positive social interactions with strangers when accompanied by a dog than when they are not.
pets: Around 6000 BCE, rising sea levels flooded the Bass Strait and separated Tasmania from mainland Australia.
pets: One estimate is that the cost to owners of treating sickened pets is between $2 million and $20 million.
pets: As such, the human–canine bond has been a topic of frequent study, and dogs' influence on human society has given them the sobriquet of "man's best friend".
pets: Aboriginal people recounted that there was a prime malevolent spirit called rageowrapper, who appeared as a large black (Aboriginal?) man and is associated with the darkness.
pets: Dogs' vision is dichromatic; their visual world consists of yellows, blues, and grays.
pets: These instincts can drive dogs to consider objects or other animals to be prey or drive possessive behavior.
pets: Other studies also show that fully mongrel dogs live about a year longer on average than dogs with pedigrees.
pets: As of 11 October 2017, domestic ticket sales for the Games were reported to be slow.
pets: OCLC 904338888.
pets: An adult pair, along with their most-recent offspring, occupies a territory of 1–4 km2 (0.39–1.54 sq mi).
pets: The white man's civilisation proved scarcely less fatal than the white man's musket.
pets: This boy became the first Aboriginal Tasmanian to have extended contact with the British colonial society.
pets: Overall, several major companies have recalled more than 5300 pet food products, with most of the recalls coming from Menu Foods.
pets: "What details do we know about the Aboriginal population?".
pets: Under a historic agreement facilitated by the IOC, qualified athletes from North Korea were allowed to cross the Korean Demilitarized Zone into South Korea to compete in the Games.
pets: They are born with their eyes open, but initially are helpless, and weigh around 200–350 g (7.1–12.3 oz).
pets: This survey didn't catch all the deaths that happened.
pets: A boy whose parents were killed in the massacre was taken and given the name Robert Hobart May.
pets: Three major profiles were identified from these students.
pets: In one study, new guardians reported a significant reduction in minor health problems during the first month following pet acquisition, which was sustained through the 10-month study.
pets: and as a general thing, found scarcely any children amongst them; ...
pets: Individual Russian athletes, who qualified and could demonstrate they had complied with the IOC's doping regulations, were given the option to compete at the 2018 Games as "Olympic Athletes from Russia" (OAR) under the Olympic flag and with the Olympic anthem played at any ceremony.
pets: However, many of these skeletons were obtained from Aboriginal "mummies" from graves or bodies of the murdered.
pets: Shortly thereafter, Robinson began to disseminate stories, told to him by James Munro, of atrocities allegedly committed by the sealers against Aboriginal people, and against Aboriginal women in particular.
pets: They were lodged at night in shelters or "breakwinds." These "breakwinds" were thatched roofs sloping to the ground, with an opening at the top to let out the smoke and closed at the ends, except for a doorway.
pets: A bitch may abandon or attack her puppies or her male partner dog if she is stressed or in pain.
pets: They must get vitamin D from their diet.
pets: It also has one or two diagonal stripes down the fore and hindquarters and several stripes on its legs.
pets: On 20 March 2007 after the death of her cat, a woman in Chicago, Illinois sued Menu Foods for negligence in delaying the recall.
pets: Warm, red blood
Viviparous: Mammalia
Oviparous: Aves
Heart with one auricle, one ventricle.
pets: By then, much of the South East territory had been colonised, leading to displacement and severe depletion of traditional food sources.
pets: It is unknown to what extent prehistoric dogs were consumed and bred for meat.
pets: The frequency of absences and total days missed are closely linked to job satisfaction levels.
pets: jubatus) inhabits the open grasslands of Africa and Asia in parts of Iran.
pets: Untreated toxocariasis can cause retinal damage and decreased vision.
pets: Cynailurus soemmeringi by Fitzinger in 1855 was a live male cheetah brought by Theodor von Heuglin to Tiergarten Schönbrunn from Kordofan in southern Sudan.
pets: 14–16 days after ovulation, the embryo attaches to the uterus, and after seven to eight more days, a heartbeat is detectable.
pets: In 2016, the UK CIPD found that the average employee had 7.5 absent days per year, which had a median annual cost of £595 per employee.
pets: After winning the election, Pyeongchang became the third Asian city to host the Winter Olympics.
pets: The encyclopedia of the dog.
pets: The International Paralympic Committee met for an orientation with the Pyeongchang 2018 organising committee in July 2012.
pets: Evidence suggest the Acinonyx genus evolved from other feline ancestors early on, to become specialized in stealth and running.
pets: Some are congenital and others are acquired.
pets: Other scholars who have supported the assessment of the near-destruction of the Aboriginal Tasmanians as genocide include James Boyce, Lyndall Ryan, Tom Lawson, Mohamed Adhikari, Ashley Riley Sousa, Rebe Taylor, and Tony Barta.
pets: Russia's participation in the 2018 Winter Olympics was affected by the aftermath of its state-sponsored doping program.
pets: This notwithstanding, it seems that the Panninher were resourceful enough to survive in some numbers until late in the Black War.
pets: Melamine has also been implicated in corn gluten in South Africa.
pets: The High Country also provided opportunities to trade for ochre with the North-west and North people, and to harvest intoxicating gum from Eucalyptus gunnii, found only on the plateau.
pets: However, days later the White House Press Secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, stated that the United States would participate.
pets: Present-day dogs are dispersed around the world.
pets: Aboriginal people were also recorded to keep bones of dead people as talismans or amulets.
pets: An average litter consists of about six puppies.
pets: She also said the mortality rate is not likely to be representative of all cases, because survey respondents had more information to submit for animals that had died.
pets: The debate about the cause generated a major controversy.
pets: Aardwolves are shy and nocturnal, sleeping in burrows by day.
pets: The two nations marched together under the Korean Unification Flag during the opening ceremony.
pets: Females will also, when given the opportunity, mate with the dominant male, which increases the chances of the dominant male guarding "his" cubs with her.
pets: Menu Foods faces 90 class-action lawsuits as a result of the contamination.
pets: His presence was met with hostility from South Korean conservatives, as there were allegations that he had a role in the ROKS Cheonan sinking and other past attacks.
pets: Banfield's veterinarians treat an estimated 6 percent of the nation's cats and dogs, and their findings provide "the most authoritative picture of the harm done by the tainted cat and dog food," according to the FDA.
pets: Aboriginal culture was disrupted severely in the 19th century after the dispossession of land and the incarceration of Aboriginal people on Wybalenna and Oyster Cove.
pets: Breeds may have an occasional "blaze", stripe, or "star" of white fur on their chest or underside.
pets: Norway led the total medal tally with 39, followed by Germany at 31 and Canada at 29.
pets: nama burag – or "the ghost of the thunderstorm"
ragi roba – (see rageowrapper) the "revered spirit" – frequently connoted to awesome/revered/dreaded and a signifier of ghosts/phantoms of the departed when connected with signifier ragi
laga robana – "awful spirit of the dead" i.e.
pets: Dogs were domesticated from wolves at least 14,000 years ago by hunter-gatherers, before the development of agriculture; the remains of the Bonn–Oberkassel dog, buried alongside humans between 14,000 and 15,000 years ago, are the earliest to be conclusively identified as a domesticated dog.
pets: It is one of the least-known genet species.
pets: By 21 March, it became clear the common factor was in the wheat gluten used to thicken the gravy in the "cuts and gravy" style wet foods.
pets: Phoenix Snow Park – freestyle skiing, snowboarding
Another stand-alone outdoor sports venue was located in neighbouring Jeongseon county:
pets: New York: DK Publishing.
pets: In November 2006, Tasmania became the first Australian state or territory to offer financial compensation for the Stolen Generations, Aboriginal people forcibly removed from their families by Australian government agencies and church missions between about 1900 and 1972.
pets: Trading relationships developed between sealers and Tasmanian Aboriginal tribes.
pets: Robinson describes the road used by the Panninher from their home up to the Central Highlands, via the gully of the Liffey River, and the South road along the base of the Western Tiers – up the Lake River to modern-day Interlaken.
pets: After three months, they begin supervised foraging, and by four months are normally independent, though they often share a den with their mother until the next breeding season.
pets: Over the millennia, dogs have uniquely adapted to human behavior; this adaptation includes being able to understand and communicate with humans.
pets: Dube and Orpinas conducted a study by surveying 99 upper-elementary and middle schools, targeting students with attendance problems.
pets: Dating back at least 2,600 years, necklace-making is one of the few Palawa traditions that has remained intact and has continued without interruption since before European settlement.
pets: It is estimated that nearly 14% of people in the United States are infected with Toxocara; about 10,000 cases are reported each year.
pets: Police dogs with PTSD can often refuse to work.
pets: Archaeological and geographic evidence indicate that Aboriginal Tasmanians and their ancestors lived in a colder and drier environment than exists today.
pets: In June 2012, construction began on a high-speed rail line that would connect Pyeongchang to Seoul.
pets: In Romania neutering is mandatory except for when a pedigree to select breeds can be shown.
pets: The recalls are related to contaminated vegetable proteins, imported from China in 2006 and early 2007, used as pet food ingredients.
pets: However, as of 31 January 2018, 77% of all tickets had been sold.
pets: Mannarlargenna, in particular, described consulting his "devil," which seems to be a resident personal spirituality that provided prognostic or oracular powers.
pets: The clans of the Ben Lomond nation had close enough relationships with neighbouring clans of the East Coast and North Midlands that they enjoyed seasonal foraging rights to these adjoining territories.
pets: One of the largest veterinary hospital chains in the U.S., Banfield, has released statistics on the recent rates of pet kidney failure.
pets: Due to their specific food requirements, they are found only in regions where termites of the family Hodotermitidae occur.
pets: Earlier, PyeongChang lost to Vancouver with a difference of 3 votes in bidding the 2010 Olympics, and lost to Sochi with a difference of 4 votes in bidding the 2014 Olympics.
pets: Other common causes of death are heart and renal failure.
pets: The result was a relatively flat and fertile landscape that supported a large biomass, thus being a major food source for the Aboriginal peoples.
pets: Nevertheless, this clan name is now used as a general term for all Aboriginal peoples of this region.
pets: His declining popularity meant that most of his appearances after RKO's initial burst of "Ace" publicity were for Monogram and the Poverty Row studio Producers Releasing Corporation.
pets: First Australians, TV documentary series, featuring Aboriginal Tasmanians in Episode 2
Woretemoeteryenner (1795–1847), one of the few Palawa people to bridge the times before and after European contact
pets: Another study showed that dogs stared at humans after failing to complete an impossible version of the same task they had been trained to solve.
pets: OCLC 502410693.
pets: It will take effect in 2027, with plans to assist dog farmers in transitioning to other products.
pets: This, in turn, led to a decline in the Aboriginal population.
pets: The bones might be worn on a kangaroo sinew string bare around the neck or enclosed in a kangaroo skin bag.
pets: By 1830, the people of the Letteremairenner had largely disappeared from their homeland, and the survivors were waging a desperate guerrilla war against the British colonists, living a fringe existence in Launceston or on the margins of their traditional land.
pets: Pet guardianship has also been associated with increased survival in cases of coronary artery disease.
pets: The remainder has been identified as cyanuric acid, ammelide and ammeline, with crystals recovered from urine reported to be approximately 70% cyanuric acid.
pets: There's no way to guess how many pets were affected."
pets: According to Thomas, there tends to be a higher level of stress with people who work or interact with a narcissist, which in turn increases absenteeism and staff turnover.
pets: The spots on the lower flanks are also distinctly elongated, resembling stripes rather than spots.
pets: They all originate from an egg.
pets: A black dog is considered to be the vahana (vehicle) of Bhairava (an incarnation of Shiva).
pets: Most food related poisonings involved theobromine poisoning (chocolate).
pets: In Norway neutering is illegal unless for the benefit of the animal's health (e.g., ovariohysterectomy in case of ovarian or uterine neoplasia).
pets: Collier's New Encyclopedia.
pets: Today, only a few Tasmanian Aboriginal women maintain this art, but they continue to pass down their knowledge and skills to younger women in their community.
pets: More recent scholarship seeks to understand absenteeism as an indicator of psychological, medical, or social adjustment to work.
pets: expresses its deep and sincere regret at the hurt and distress caused by past policies under which Aboriginal children were removed from their families and homes; apologises to the Aboriginal people for those past actions and reaffirms its support for reconciliation between all Australians.
pets: Their behavioural traits include guarding, herding, hunting, retrieving, and scent detection.
pets: "Tasmanian Tribes" (PDF).
pets: While male-parent dogs can show more disinterested behaviour toward their own puppies, most can play with the young pups as they would with other dogs or humans.
pets: Acute stress reactions from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) seen in dogs can evolve into chronic stress.
pets: These cats occurred across much of the old world 10,000 years ago, some extinct species such as A.
pets: Similarly, Reibey's Ford, near modern-day Hadspen, was a known "resort of the natives" and they named this site moorronnoe.
pets: "Collins Dictionary".
pets: Traits of high sociability and lack of fear in dogs may include genetic modifications related to Williams-Beuren syndrome in humans, which cause hypersociability at the expense of problem-solving ability.
pets: Healthier workplaces have lower absence rates.
pets: Various kinds of service dogs and assistance dogs, including guide dogs, hearing dogs, mobility assistance dogs, and psychiatric service dogs, assist individuals with disabilities.
pets: Mortality due to infection increased significantly with increases in inbreeding.
pets: They mark their territories by urinating on them, which is more likely when entering a new environment.
pets: In 2018, the World Health Organization (WHO) reported that 59,000 people died globally from rabies, with 59.6% of the deaths in Asia and 36.4% in Africa.
pets: Dog consumption was rare in India, Iran, and Europe.
pets: Bitch – any female member of the species (or subspecies).
pets: A study of another Border Collie, Chaser, documented that he had learned the names and could associate them by verbal command with over 1,000 words.
pets: Winning 63 of the 95 votes cast in the first secret ballot, Pyeongchang received more votes than its competitors combined, overwhelmingly beating Munich in Germany (also hosted the 1972 Summer Olympics), which received 25 votes, and Annecy in France, which received seven.
pets: The Europeans were living on oatmeal and potatoes while the Aboriginal people, who detested oatmeal and refused to eat it, survived on potatoes and rice supplemented by mutton birds they caught.
pets: At the funeral of an Aboriginal man named "Robert" in Launceston, an Aboriginal mourner was asked the meaning of his body paint, and replied, "What do you wear fine clothes for?"
pets: The first European settlements on the island were named Lunawanna and Alonnah, and many of the island's landmarks continue to bear Nuenonne names.
pets: Recent studies have suggested that the aardwolf probably diverged from other hyaenids early on; how early is still unclear, as the fossil record and genetic studies disagree by 10 million years.
pets: Athletes from three further countries – the Cayman Islands, Dominica, and Peru – qualified to compete, but all three National Olympic Committees returned the quota spots back to the International Ski Federation (FIS).
pets: German figure skaters Aliona Savchenko and Bruno Massot set a new ISU best free skating score of 159.31 in pair skating.
pets: Archived from the original on 20 January 2017.
pets: These genes affect embryogenesis and can confer tameness, smaller jaws, floppy ears, and diminished craniofacial development, which distinguish domesticated dogs from wolves and are considered to reflect domestication syndrome.
pets: The dogs showed a ratio-dependent activation both for numerical values from 1–3 to larger than four.
pets: Palawa recognise only descendants of the Bass Strait Island community as Aboriginal and do not consider as Aboriginal the Lia Pootah, who claim descent, based on oral traditions, from Tasmanian mainland Aboriginal communities.
pets: The "higher grade" saw the hanging as a dangerous precedent and argued that Aboriginal people were only defending their land and should not be punished for doing so.
pets: These moves were met with opposition in South Korea, including protests and online petitions; critics argued that the government was attempting to use the Olympics to spread pro-North Korean sentiment, and that the unified ice hockey team would fail.
pets: The indoor ice events were held in the nearby city of Gangneung.
pets: Unlike many of its relatives in the order Carnivora, the aardwolf does not hunt large animals.
pets: There were more than 60 clans before European colonisation, although only 48 have been located and associated with particular territories.
pets: The same study concluded that dog-associated road accidents involving injuries more commonly involve two-wheeled vehicles.
pets: China is the world's largest consumer of dogs, with an estimated 10 to 20 million dogs killed every year for human consumption.
pets: Numerous disorders are known to affect dogs.
pets: IOC president Thomas Bach declared the Games closed, and the cauldron was extinguished.
pets: Plangermaireener is also used as a blanket term for the Ben Lomond nation, which reflects the suffix "mairreener"; meaning "people".
pets: One study of 18 household dogs found that the dogs could not distinguish food bowls at specific locations without distinguishing cues; the study stated that this indicates a lack of spatial memory.
pets: They are also known to feed on other insects and larvae, and, some sources mention, very occasionally small mammals and birds, but these constitute a very small percentage of their total diet.
pets: The current hypothesis is, although these contaminants are not very toxic individually, their potency appears to be increased when they are present together.
pets: Compared to their wolf counterparts, dogs tend to be less timid and less aggressive, though some of these genes have been associated with aggression in certain dog breeds.
pets: The clans of the Ben Lomond nation were nomadic, and the Aboriginal residents hunted along the valleys of the South Esk and North Esk rivers, their tributaries, and the highlands to the northeast; as well as making forays to the plateau in summer.
pets: Classifying dingoes as wild dogs simplifies reducing or controlling dingo populations that threaten livestock.
pets: cans, Chicken Soup for the Pet Lover's Soul Puppy Formula 13 oz.
pets: "Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Population: 2016 Census Data Summary".
pets: 2018 Winter Paralympics
Olympic Games held in South Korea
1988 Summer Olympics – Seoul
2018 Winter Olympics – Pyeongchang
List of IOC country codes
Soohorang and Bandabi
pets: A 2024 UK study analyzing 584,734 dogs concluded that purebred dogs live longer than crossbred dogs, challenging the previous notion of the latter having the higher life expectancies.
pets: As a result, the IOC suspended the Russian Olympic Committee in December 2017, although Russian athletes whitelisted by the IOC were allowed to compete neutrally under the OAR (Olympic Athletes from Russia) designation.
pets: In October 1832, it was decided to build a new camp with better buildings (wattle and daub) at a more suitable location, Pea Jacket Point.
pets: ISBN 978-0-88365-302-9.
pets: Though many Aboriginal deaths went unrecorded, the Cape Grim massacre in 1828 demonstrates the level of frontier violence towards Aboriginal Tasmanians.
pets: Therefore, it did not assess them for the IUCN Red List of threatened species.
pets: Dogs prefer to defecate with their spines aligned in a north–south position in calm magnetic field conditions.
pets: This form was similar to a kangaroo, and Aboriginal people consequently take the kangaroo as a totem.
pets: The Black War of 1828–1832 and the Black Line of 1830 were turning points in the relationship with European settlers.
pets: One hypothesis is the poisoned cat foods might have higher concentrations of melamine than the dog foods.
pets: It is kept in zoos in the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, the United States, South Africa and the United Arab Emirates, and As of March 2026 the subspecies was kept in 15 zoos around the world.
pets: This not only involves stress, but other mental health factors that employees deem worthy of attention.
pets: Dog feces can also contain hookworms that cause cutaneous larva migrans in humans.
pets: The South East people are recorded as having a hostile relationship with the Oyster Bay nation to their north, including raids that reportedly involved the abduction of women.
pets: Medals used in the games
pets: 86% of the Russian population opposed participation at the Olympics under a neutral flag, and many Russian fans attended the Games wearing the Russian colours and chanting "Russia!" in unison, in an act of defiance against the ban.
pets: Pyrethrin insecticides were the most common cause of pesticide poisoning.
pets: The British commanding officer stated that he thought the Aboriginal group was hostile.
pets: Spayed females are less likely to develop cancers affecting the mammary glands, ovaries, and other reproductive organs.
pets: kurteni") was initially described by Christiansen and Mazák in 2009 on the basis of a skull from Pliocene strata in China, and touted as the most primitive member of the genus.
pets: New York: Galahad Books.
pets: Convicts were assigned to build housing and do most of the work at the settlement, including the growing of food in the vegetable gardens.
pets: The skull, body, and limb proportions between breeds display more phenotypic diversity than can be found within the entire order of carnivores.
pets: Pet Super Store Dog Food Recall Page
pets: Most dogs naturally have 26 vertebrae in their tails, but some with naturally short tails have as few as three.
pets: On 7 May, however, Barbara Powers, president of the American Association of Veterinary Laboratory Diagnosticians and a professor of veterinary diagnostics at Colorado State University cautioned "There's something more going on than just the mechanical blockage.
pets: Communication in dogs includes eye gaze, facial expression, vocalization, body posture (including movements of bodies and limbs), and chemical communication (scents, pheromones, and taste).
pets: The male may spend up to six hours a night watching over the cubs while the mother is out looking for food.
pets: the tribe travels around Ben Lomond from South Esk to North Esk – and from thence to St.
pets: Consumption of dog meat declined but did not end during the Sui dynasty (581–618) and Tang dynasty (618–907) due in part to the spread of Buddhism and the upper class rejecting the practice.
pets: However, neutering increases the risk of urinary incontinence and pyometra in bitches, prostate cancer in dogs, and osteosarcoma, hemangiosarcoma, cruciate ligament rupture, obesity, and diabetes mellitus in either sex.
pets: ISBN 978-1-4863-0030-3.
pets: In 1830, Robinson seized fourteen Aboriginal women from the sealers, planning for them to marry Aboriginal men at the Flinders Island settlement.
pets: Russian president Vladimir Putin and other officials had signalled in the past that it would be a humiliation if Russian athletes were not allowed to compete under the Russian flag.
pets: In the later stages of the dog's pregnancy, nesting behaviour may occur.
pets: Dogs are domesticated members of the family Canidae.
pets: In Christianity, dogs represent faithfulness.
pets: "According to Calder, a rapid and remarkable declension of the numbers of the Aborigines had been going on long before the remnants were gathered together on Flinders Island.
pets: After arrival, all Aboriginal children aged between six and 15 years were removed from their families to be brought up by the storekeeper and a lay preacher.
pets: Taenia is a notable genus with 5 species in which dogs are the definitive host.
pets: Their territory broadly covered the north plains of the midlands, from the west bank of the Tamar River across to what is now Evandale, and terminated at the Tyerrernotepanner country around modern-day Conara.
pets: American officials said that North Korea cancelled a meeting with Pence at the last minute.
pets: Some may have been given to incorporate the new arrivals into Aboriginal society through marriage.
pets: The United States Senate held an oversight hearing on the matter by 12 April.
pets: They typically will only use one or two dens at a time, rotating through all of their dens every six months.
pets: Aboriginal Tasmanians (palawa kani: Palawa, Pakana) are the Aboriginal people of Tasmania, the large island south of mainland Australia.
pets: Another experimental study showed evidence that Australian dingos can outperform domestic dogs in non-social problem-solving, indicating that domestic dogs may have lost much of their original problem-solving abilities once they joined humans.
pets: Dogs have a natural instinct called prey drive (the term is chiefly used to describe training dogs' habits) which can be influenced by breeding.
pets: SBS sub-licensed its rights to MBC and KBS.
pets: They are responsible for 99% of rabies cases worldwide; however, in some developed countries such as the UK, rabies is absent from dogs and is instead only transmitted by bats.
pets: The territory is marked by both sexes, as they both have developed anal glands from which they extrude a black substance that is smeared on rocks or grass stalks in 5-millimetre (0.20 in)-long streaks.
pets: By then, construction was already underway on the Olympic Village.
pets: Based on analysis of data collected by more than 600 hospitals and clinics in 43 states, out of every 10,000 cats and dogs seen in Banfield clinics, three developed kidney failure during the time pet food contaminated with melamine was on the market.
pets: A great example of finding progress in absence management is forming an employee assistantship program (EAP), which is "a strategy to help workers deal with issues outside of work that employees bring to the workplace" (Quinley, 2003).
pets: For much of the 20th century, the Tasmanian Aboriginal people were widely, and erroneously, thought of as extinct and intentionally exterminated by white settlers.
pets: Her skeleton was then put up for public display in the Tasmanian Museum until 1947, and was only laid to rest, by cremation, in 1976.
pets: By the late nineteenth century, only fragmentary records of the original languages remained.
pets: ISBN 978-0-7525-8018-0.
pets: In Hindu mythology, Yama, the god of death, owns two watchdogs named Shyama and Sharvara, which each have four eyes—they are said to watch over the gates of Naraka.
pets: Other states have allowed suits for punitive damages and emotional distress suffered in the loss of a pet.
pets: In 2024, China, Singapore, and Thailand placed a ban on the consumption of dogs within their borders.
pets: In a potentially related incident in China, on 22 February 2006, Xinhua reported at least 38 cats dying shortly after being fed with Xiduoyu, a brand of a "Tianjin-based cat food manufacturer".
pets: Other benefits include dogs as social support.
pets: If the intruder is caught, which rarely happens, a fight will occur, which is accompanied by soft clucking, hoarse barking, and a type of roar.
pets: Below is an overview of affected brands, as provided by the FDA and the companies:
pets: Ryan used Jones' work in her seminal history of Aboriginal Tasmanians, but Taylor discusses in his thesis how Jones' original work is uncited and possibly conjectural.
pets: Dogs perform many roles for humans, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, protection, companionship, therapy, aiding disabled people, and assisting police and the military.
pets: One study demonstrated that children with ADHD and conduct disorders who participated in an education program with dogs and other animals showed increased attendance, knowledge, and skill-objectives and decreased antisocial and violent behavior compared with those not in an animal-assisted program.
pets: Ester Ledecká of the Czech Republic won gold in the super-G skiing event and another gold in the snowboarding parallel giant slalom, making her the first female athlete to win Olympic gold medals in two different sports at a single Winter Games.
pets: Depressive tendencies may lie behind some of the absence ascribed to poor physical health, as with adoption of a "culturally approved sick role".
pets: "Pyeongchang 2018".
pets: A shortage of women available "in trade" resulted in abduction becoming common, and, in 1830, it was reported that at least fifty Aboriginal women were "kept in slavery" on the Bass Strait islands.
pets: In some instances, wolves have displayed an uncharacteristic fearlessness of humans and buildings when attacking dogs, to the extent that they have to be beaten off or killed.
pets: His first appearance was in the 1938 Lew Landers film Blind Alibi.
pets: ISBN 0731667891.
pets: Most dogs also looked significantly longer at the face whose expression matched the valence of vocalization.
pets: The significance of the disappearance of bone tools (believed to have been primarily used for fishing) and fish in the diet is heavily debated.
pets: FDA knows of no studies of melamine involving felines and, if melamine is responsible, the increased sensitivity of cats is a mystery to officials.
pets: Moreover, high levels of work social capital can reduce absenteeism.
pets: (2016) says stress accounts for twelve percent of absenteeism in the workplace a year, which is a matter in which the company needs to stay in communication with the employee and work towards a solution.
pets: The Resolution under Captain Tobias Furneaux (part of an expedition led by Captain James Cook) had visited in 1773 but made no contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians, although gifts were left for them in unoccupied shelters found on Bruny Island.
pets: Moreover, Jones published his work without recourse to Plomley's later extensive descriptions of Tasmanian Aboriginal clan groups.
pets: Fish were never a large part of the diet, ranking behind shellfish and seals, and with more resources available, the cost/benefit ratio of fishing may have become too high.
pets: The following table summarises clan names and associated areas as recorded in early colonial and ethnographic sources, with modern townships listed for geographic reference only.
pets: Communication behaviors of dogs include eye gaze, facial expression, vocalization, body posture (including movements of bodies and limbs), and gustatory communication (scents, pheromones, and taste).
pets: Wozencraft included hallstromi (the New Guinea singing dog) as another name (junior synonym) for the dingo.
pets: Unplanned absence from work is defined as leave that is not planned or predictable.
pets: In the 21st century, thousands of people in Tasmania identify as Aboriginal Tasmanian.
pets: Kwandong Hockey Centre – ice hockey (women's competition)
pets: Some nineteenth- and early twentieth-century sources use the term Mairremmener (with variant spellings) as a broader or imprecise label for inland Aboriginal groups associated with the Big River region, rather than as a discrete clan name.
pets: Names published before that date are unavailable, even if they would otherwise satisfy the rules.
pets: A dog can become aggressive because of trauma or abuse, fear or anxiety, territorial protection, or protecting an item it considers valuable.
pets: The record was previously held by the USA who won 37 medals in Vancouver 2010.
pets: They use their wide tongues to lap surface foraging termites off of the ground and consume large quantities of sand in the process, which aids in digestion in the absence of teeth to break down their food.
pets: The most enduring art form left by Tasmanians are petroglyphs, or rock art.
pets: While foraging, the aardwolf can cover about 1 km (0.62 mi) per hour, which translates to 8–12 km (5.0–7.5 mi) per summer night and 3–8 km (1.9–5.0 mi) per winter night.
pets: Captured, she refused to work and was banished to Penguin Island.
pets: Toogee Low (Port Davey) remained in mythology as a residence of many "devils".
pets: Germany and Canada tied for gold in the two-man bobsleigh event, only the second time in history that two countries had tied for a gold medal in this particular event, the first time being in the 1998 Winter Olympics twenty years earlier.
pets: They are also at risk of having more restricted opportunities in terms of further education and employment, and are likely to experience social and emotional problems in adulthood.
pets: The Panninher were affected early by settlement around Norfolk Plains, and aggressive assertion of property rights by settlers at first hindered their hunting and migration through their country and, subsequently, led to outright hostility from both parties.
pets: It is contentious whether there was a larger political organisation, hitherto described as a "tribe" in the literature (and by colonial observers), as there is no evidence in the historical literature of larger political entities above that of the clan.
pets: A mortality has raged amongst them which together with the severity of the season and other causes had rendered the paucity of their number very considerable."
pets: ISBN 978-0-7566-6004-8.
pets: Eating dog meat is a social taboo in most parts of the world, though some still consume it in modern times.
pets: In Christian folklore, a church grim often takes the form of a black dog to guard Christian churches and their churchyards from sacrilege.
pets: In early December 2017, the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, told Fox News that it was an "open question" whether the United States was going to participate in the Games, citing security concerns in the region.
pets: Two athletes, who met the conditions and were cleared by the IOC, subsequently failed drug tests during the Games.
pets: Factors attributed to absence from work can include stress, family related concerns, work culture, the employees' ability to do the job, and supervisor–subordinate relationship.
pets: As individual lawsuits were filed across the nation, an Ontario, Oregon family filed a class-action lawsuit against Menu Foods, citing emotional damage and economic loss.
pets: In each of these from twenty to thirty blacks were lodged ...
pets: One study states that "the health of elderly people is related to their health habits and social supports but not to their ownership of, or attachment to, a companion animal".
pets: These designs are generally circular or spiral motifs that represent celestial bodies or figures of clan people.
pets: Unplanned absences indicate an important factor of the health of the workplace, including employee satisfaction and commitment.
pets: 21 08" to "15 April of 09"
Diamond Pet Foods: Chicken Soup for the Pet Lover's Soul Kitten Formula 5.5 oz.
pets: It is also called the maanhaarjakkals (Afrikaans for 'mane-jackal'), termite-eating hyena and civet hyena, based on its habit of secreting substances from its anal gland, a characteristic shared with the African civet.
pets: Archaeological evidence suggests that Tasmania was colonised by successive waves of Aboriginal people from southern Australia during periods of lower sea level associated with glacial maxima.
pets: He did not reprise the role in any of the subsequent installments.
pets: It was spoken by the Ben Lomond and North-east nations, as well as by the Luggermairrenerpairer clan of the Central Highlands.
pets: Reports that cyanuric acid may be an independently and potentially widely used adulterant in China have heightened concerns for both pet and human health.
pets: It includes sick time off, injured time off, special circumstances, and absence without permission.
pets: The data also shows an equal number of male and female pet dogs; less than one-fifth of the owned dogs come from shelters.
pets: Under the bill, a person can claim "Tasmanian Aboriginality" if they meet all of the following criteria:
pets: Dogs can have a violet gland (or supracaudal gland) characterized by sebaceous glands on the dorsal surface of their tails; in some breeds, it may be vestigial or absent.
pets: It was advised that pets exhibiting these symptoms should be taken for veterinary care as soon as possible, even if the animal did not eat any of the recalled pet food, as these signs may be indicative of other illnesses.
pets: Its name means 'earth-wolf' in Afrikaans and Dutch.
pets: They reported 284 more cases of kidney failure in cats than the expected "background rate", corresponding to a 30 percent increase.
pets: Chinese short track speed skater Wu Dajing beat the men's 500 m world record twice en route to winning a gold medal, becoming only the second person in history to skate the discipline in under 40 seconds (after American J.
pets: Supplies to the settlement were inadequate, and if sealers had not supplied potatoes, the Aboriginal people would have starved.
pets: Excavations at Warreen Cave in southwest Tasmania demonstrated occupation from as early as 34,000 BP (approximately 32,000 BCE), making Aboriginal Tasmanians among the southernmost known human populations in the world during the Pleistocene era.
pets: He is considered by many critics an attempt by RKO Pictures to cash in on the success of Warner Bros.' canine sensation, Rin Tin Tin, also a German Shepherd.
pets: It is speculated that early contacts with sealers before colonisation had resulted in an epidemic.
pets: The dog is the most popular pet in the United States, present in 34–40% of households.
pets: Striped hyenas are known to kill dogs in their range.
pets: By contrast, figure skating and the men's ice hockey gold-medal game carried the most expensive tickets of the Games.
pets: Retrieved from Internet Archive 13 December 2013.
pets: Then-IOC President Jacques Rogge visited Pyeongchang for the first time in February 2013.
pets: Researchers have tested dogs' ability to perceive information, retain it as knowledge, and apply it to solve problems.
pets: One 1945 study suggested the chemical increased urine output when fed to dogs in large amounts.
pets: The 10th edition of Systema Naturae (Latin; the English title is A General System of Nature) is a book written by Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus and published in two volumes in 1758 and 1759, which marks the starting point of zoological nomenclature.
pets: Generally, the clans of the Paredarerme ranged inland to the High Country for spring and summer and returned to the coast for autumn and winter, but not all people left their territory each year with some deciding to stay by the coast.
pets: All three groups significantly differed in mean scores for behavioral difficulties.
pets: Evidence from veterinary practices and questionnaires showed that around 500 dogs would need to have their tail docked to prevent one injury.
pets: Their pathology is similar to that of humans, as is their immune response to treatment and their outcomes.
pets: This is supported by carrying capacity data indicating greater resource productivity in Tasmania than on the mainland.
pets: Other common food poisonings include xylitol, Vitis (grapes, raisins, etc.), and Allium (garlic, onions, etc.).
pets: Ceremonial dance and singing depicted traditional tales as well as recent events.
pets: Gestation lasts between 89 and 92 days, producing two to five cubs (most often two or three) during the rainy season (October–December), when termites are more active.
pets: The South Korean President, Moon Jae-in, at the start of the Olympics shook hands with Kim Yo-jong, the sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and a prominent figure of the regime.
pets: Migrations provided a varied diet with plentiful seafood, seals and birds on the coast, and good hunting for kangaroos, wallabies and possums inland.
pets: Molecular phylogenetic analysis has shown that it is the sister group of the genus Puma, and it is now placed within the subfamily Felinae.
pets: Smith is often described as the last fluent speaker of a Tasmanian Aboriginal language.
pets: This process includes identifying chronic absenteeism, identifying the reasoning behind the absences, work with families to address issues, and offer positive reinforcements if necessary.
pets: Most of these dogs live as scavengers and have never been owned by humans, with one study showing that village dogs' most common response when approached by strangers is to run away (52%) or respond aggressively (11%).
pets: Garvey, Jillian (2006).
pets: there is  [sic] two tribes ...
pets: The occupation of the western Tamar is open to dispute – the ethnographic record suggests that it was the province of the Pallitorre and Parnillerpanner clans of the North nation, or the Leterrmairrener, or a hitherto unnamed clan of the North Midlands nation.
pets: Bath: Paragon Books.
pets: American Nathan Chen became the first figure skater to land five quadruple jumps in one program.
pets: Some veterinarians have pointed out that animal diets are difficult to maintain in terms of nutritional appropriateness and safety, and are best served by store-bought preparations, an assertion disputed by some practitioners of home-made animal foods.
pets: They locate their food by sound and also from the scent secreted by the soldier termites.
pets: Between the late 18th century and the early 20th century, the following Acinonyx species and subspecies were described:
pets: The 2018 Games marked the third time that an Asian country had hosted the Winter Olympics, after Sapporo 1972 and Nagano 1998, both in Japan.
pets: The domesticated dog originated as a predator and scavenger.
pets: Dogs: Their Fossil Relatives and Evolutionary History.
pets: It has been disputed that "trying to achieve status" is characteristic of dog-human interactions.
pets: Another factor of humans expanding was the lack of prey for these cats; their prey were being hunted by humans or being forced from their habitats.
pets: The eastern subspecies is kept in two zoos As of March 2026, namely Cincinnati zoo and the Novosibirsk zoo.
pets: In the 10th edition, they were both moved into the mammal class.
pets: There were 7,500 torch bearers to represent the combined Korean population of approximately 75 million people.
pets: The aardwolf lives in the shrublands of eastern and southern Africa – open lands covered with stunted trees and shrubs.
pets: A number of dogs were also reported affected in Australia, with four in Melbourne and a few more in Sydney.
pets: Reciprocal movement rights between Big River and Oyster Bay peoples are also recorded, reflecting shared access arrangements rather than rigid territorial boundaries.
pets: It is seen as a management problem, and framed in economic or quasi-economic terms.
pets: Research has, however, pointed to significantly less absenteeism from school through sickness among children who live with pets.
pets: Treating dingoes as a separate species allows conservation programs to protect the dingo population.
pets: Many of them are without a distinct head, and most of them without feet.
pets: One study of canine cognitive abilities found that dogs' capabilities are similar to those of horses, chimpanzees, or cats.
pets: Norton & Company.
pets: Research evidence suggests that early interventions are six times more likely to be successful than those after students' non-attendance has reached the persistent stage.
pets: Veterinarians in Asia initially blamed the 2004 problems on fungal toxins, but pathology tests conducted in 2007 found melamine and cyanuric acid present in renal tissue from both outbreaks.
pets: Aboriginal people lived in Tasmania for tens of thousands of years before European settlement.
pets: Dogs have also been linked to the extinction of 156 animal species.
pets: The popularity of books on home preparation of pet foods has rocketed on Amazon.com.
pets: Records Relating to Tasmanian Aboriginal People from the Archives Office of Tasmania "Brief Guide No.
pets: Some argue that it is evidence of a maladaptive society, while others argue that the change was economic, as large areas of scrub at that time were changing to grassland, providing substantially increased food resources.
pets: Two weeks later, Robinson arrived with Lieutenant Darling, the new station commander, and moved the Aboriginal people back to The Lagoons.
pets: Dube and Orpinas found that 17.2 percent missed school to avoid fear, anxiety problems, or escape from social or evaluative situations; 60.6 percent missed school to gain parental attention or tangible benefits; and 22.2 percent had no profile.
pets: In 2012, "A.
pets: However, it was formerly placed in its own family Protelidae.
pets: They would spend part of the year in the country of the North West nation to hunt seals and collect shells from Robbins Island for necklaces.
pets: Research found that both were non-Aboriginal convict women.
pets: According to the FDA, "the association between melamine in the kidneys and urine of cats that died and melamine in the food they consumed is undeniable.
pets: The CAS decision to overturn the life bans of 28 Russian athletes and restore their medals was also fiercely criticised, by Olympic officials, IOC president Thomas Bach and whistleblower Grigory Rodchenkov's lawyer.
pets: There were also robot torch relays in Jeju and Daejeon.
pets: ISBN 978-0-231-13529-0.
pets: The edge of each medal is marked with extrusions of hangul alphabets, while the ribbons are made from a traditional South Korean textile.
pets: Sharp claws can lacerate flesh and cause serious infections.
pets: The Olympic flag was handed to Beijing, the next host city of the Winter Olympics.
pets: Bonwick also recorded a strong Aboriginal oral tradition of an epidemic even before formal colonisation in 1803.
pets: They later disappeared or were absorbed into the Mara language group, a composite of Pleistocene Palawa, Furneaux, and Victorian speakers.
pets: Nara speakers invaded Tasmania but were later pushed back into western Tasmania.
pets: North Korea agreed to participate in the Games in spite of tense relations with South Korea.
pets: The species from Species Plantarum were numbered sequentially, while the new species were labelled with letters.
pets: Copulation lasts between 1 and 4.5 hours.
pets: If someone had a pet that died and they buried it in their back[yard], they weren't eligible for our survey.
pets: In his New Year's address on 1 January 2018, North Korean leader Kim Jong-un proposed talks in Seoul over the country's participation in the Games, which would be the first high-level talks between the North and South in over two years.
pets: The surviving records were compiled using inconsistent spellings and transcription methods, making reconstruction difficult.
pets: Estimates of the population before colonisation generally range from 3,000 to 15,000 people.
pets: Absenteeism has been viewed as an indicator of poor individual performance, as well as a breach of an implicit contract between employee and employer.
pets: The "lower grade" of colonists wanted more Aboriginal people hanged to encourage a "conciliatory line of conduct".
pets: Arthur ordered the return of some of the women.
pets: Prior to the Second World War the skins of Abyssinian genets were recorded for sale in markets in Addis Ababa market, it is unknown whether there is still a market for the skins of this species.
pets: "Preliminary zooarchaeological interpretations from Kutikina Cave, south-west Tasmania".
pets: Aboriginal Tasmanians remained isolated from mainland Aboriginal populations for approximately 8,000 years, until European exploration in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.
pets: The tail also helps the dog maintain balance by putting its weight on the opposite side of the dog's tilt, and it can also help the dog spread its anal gland's scent through the tail's position and movement.
pets: A study of 55 dogs found a correlation between swimming and 'improvement' of the hip osteoarthritis joint.
pets: Aboriginal people inhabited Tasmania's southwest from the last glacial maximum, and hand stencils and ochre smears are found in several caves, the oldest of which is dated to 10000 years ago.
pets: Linnaeus considered the dog to be a separate species from the wolf because of its upturning tail (cauda recurvata in Latin term), which is not found in any other canid.
pets: This sense of smell is the most prominent sense of the species; it detects chemical changes in the environment, allowing dogs to pinpoint the location of mating partners, potential stressors, resources, etc.
pets: Overarousal in dogs can be a result of the dogs' higher cortisol levels.
pets: An aardwolf pair's territory may have up to 10 dens, and numerous middens where they dig small holes and bury their feces with sand.
pets: The bill was passed to allow Aboriginal Lands Council elections to commence, resolving the uncertainty over who was "Aboriginal" and thus eligible to vote.
pets: There were also 2,018 support runners to guard the torch and act as messengers.
pets: One of their creation myths refers to two creator deities, Moinee and Droemerdene; the children of Parnuen, the sun, and Vena, the moon.
pets: They often mark near termite mounds within their territory every 20 minutes or so.
pets: The fossils also suggest how the genus Acinonyx once ranged widely across Eurasia, eventually population declining to climatic shifts and the habitat being broken into different locations due to human activities.
pets: Animal-assisted intervention research has shown that animal-assisted therapy with a dog can increase smiling and laughing among people with Alzheimer's disease.
pets: Dogs as introduced predators have affected the ecology of New Zealand, which lacked indigenous land-based mammals before human settlement.
pets: The Stolen Generations of Aboriginal Children Act 2006 was passed unanimously by all members of the Tasmanian Parliament.
pets: Beginning on 19 April,  researchers reportedly had ruled out aminopterin contamination and had found a "spoke-like crystal" in contaminated wheat gluten and rice protein concentrate and the tissues and urine of affected animals.
pets: There were 75 pieces of broadcast content from the 2018 Olympics submitted over ten categories (plus one category for the 2018 Youth Olympics).
pets: Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies.
pets: On 27 April, researchers from the University of Guelph, in Ontario announced they had created crystals chemically similar to the ones found in contaminated animals by combining melamine and cyanuric acid in the laboratory under pH conditions similar to those in animal kidneys.
pets: In the same year, a study found the dog to be the most popular pet in the United States, as they were present in 34 out of every 100 homes.
pets: The recalls in North America, Europe, and South Africa came in response to reports of kidney failure in pets.
pets: humans initially neither benefitted nor were harmed by wild dogs eating refuse from their camps).
pets: A study using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has shown that dogs respond to both vocal and nonvocal voices using the brain's region towards the temporal pole, similar to that of humans' brains.
pets: (It was previously known that melamine and cyanuric acid can form networks of hydrogen bonds, creating a tile-like planar structure through molecular self-assembly.) The crystal has been said to serve as a biomarker for contamination and is approximately 30% melamine.
pets: Hunting dogs became highly prized by the Aboriginal people, as were other exotic items such as flour, tea, and tobacco.
pets: The name of the host city was stylised in CamelCase as "PyeongChang" for promotional reasons, in order to alleviate potential confusion with Pyongyang—the similarly named capital of neighbouring North Korea.
pets: Work forces often excuse absenteeism caused by medical reasons if the employee provides supporting documentation from their medical practitioner.
pets: The fovea centralis area of the eye is attached to a nerve fiber, and is the most sensitive to photons.
pets: At this rate, an individual may mark 60 marks per hour, and upwards of 200 per night.
pets: He classified the domestic dog as Canis familiaris and, on the next page, classified the grey wolf as Canis lupus.
pets: Whiskers likely also facilitate the movement of food towards the mouth.
pets: The art is modern, using textiles, sculpture, and photography, but often incorporates ancient motifs and techniques such as shell necklaces and practical artifacts.
pets: Certainly, in 1847, when a surviving Aboriginal "chief" was temporarily returned to Launceston from exile in Wybalenna, he requested to be taken to the Cataract Gorge and was described as being jubilant at return to the Gorge, followed with apparent lamentation at what had been lost to him.
pets: Others were sold on a permanent basis.
pets: By 1835, the living conditions had deteriorated to the extent that in October, Robinson personally took charge of Wybalenna, organising better food and improving the housing.
pets: By the time students' absences have reached the persistent stage, there are at least several more reasons used to justify the action.
pets: In recent decades, efforts to reconstruct and revive elements of the languages have continued through the development of Palawa kani, a reconstructed language created from surviving historical wordlists and linguistic records.
pets: Within months 31 Aboriginal people had died.
pets: Neither melamine nor cyanuric acid, a chemical commonly used in pool chlorination, have been thought to be particularly toxic by themselves.
pets: Wolves, under the same situation, avoided staring at humans altogether.
pets: They are more likely to sustain more serious injuries from bites, which can lead to death.
pets: In 1839, Governor Franklin appointed a board to inquire into conditions at Wybalenna, which rejected Robinson's claims of improved living conditions and found the settlement a failure.
pets: For these reasons, they were interested in individual Aboriginal body parts and whole skeletons.
pets: In dog shows, also referred to as "breed shows", a judge familiar with the specific dog breed evaluates individual purebred dogs for conformity with their established breed type as described in a breed standard.
pets: The following table reflects groups recorded historically in the South East.
pets: In 2020, the estimated global dog population was between 700 million and 1 billion.
pets: In South Africa, breeding occurs in early July.
pets: It still has canines, but unlike other hyenas, these teeth are used primarily for fighting and defense.
pets: Walyer, a Punnilerpanner, joined the Plairhekehillerplue band after eventually escaping and went on to lead attacks on employees of the Van Diemen's Land Company.
pets: The southern subspecies is more common in zoos.
pets: On 17 January 2018, it was announced that North and South Korea had agreed to field a unified Korean women's ice hockey team at the Games, and to enter together under a Korean Unification Flag during the opening ceremony.
pets: He removed their tails and fashioned their knee joints "so that they could rest," and thus man achieved differentiation from the kangaroo.
pets: Colonial British sources recorded that Aboriginal people described topographical features, such as valleys and caves, as inhabited by spiritual entities, contemporaries referring to them as "sprites".
pets: Some countries and cities have also banned or restricted certain dog breeds, usually for safety concerns.
pets: Of the 750,000 seats allocated to South Koreans, only 20.7% had been sold.
pets: Tail docking is opposed by many veterinary and animal welfare organisations such as the American Veterinary Medical Association and the British Veterinary Association.
pets: Darling ensured a supply of plentiful food and permitted "hunting excursions".
pets: Pea Jacket Point was renamed Civilisation Point but became more commonly known as the Wybalenna Aboriginal Establishment.
pets: Common infections in dogs include canine adenovirus, canine distemper virus, canine parvovirus, leptospirosis, canine influenza, and canine coronavirus.
pets: It eats insects and their larvae, mainly termites; one aardwolf can lap up as many as 300,000 termites during a single night using its long, sticky tongue.
pets: Celski), and the first to achieve this at "sea level".
pets: As such, humans have long used dogs for their desirable traits to complete or fulfill a certain work or role.
pets: Although Aboriginal women were by custom forbidden to take part in war, several Aboriginal women who escaped from sealers became leaders or took part in attacks.
pets: The source shows that nearly 40% of American households own at least one dog, of which 67% own just one dog, 25% own two dogs, and nearly 9% own more than two dogs.
pets: This places the adjective "sickness" before the word "absence", and carries a burden of more proof than is usually offered.
pets: Linnaeus described birds as: "A beautiful and cheerful portion of created nature consisting of animals having a body covered with feathers and down; protracted and naked jaws (the beak), two wings formed for flight, and two feet.
pets: Event tickets ranged in price from ₩20,000 South Korean won (approx.
pets: At 586 grams (20.7 oz) they were the heaviest medals in the Olympic history.
pets: Species found 10,000 years ago show a  large and vigorous build for these cats compared to the cheetah which has accommodated to fast prey, with a much slimmer build enabling a quick pursuit.
pets: Using archaeological evidence, Stockton (I983:68) estimated 3,000 to 6,000 for the northern half of the west coast alone, or up to six times the commonly accepted estimate.
pets: In light of these findings, on 1 May, the American Veterinary Medical Association noted in a press release the "extremely insoluble" crystals formed in animal kidneys are suspected of blocking kidney function.
pets: DNA sequences show that all ancient and modern dogs share a common ancestry and descended from an ancient, extinct wolf population that was distinct from any modern wolf lineage.
pets: In 1772, a French exploratory expedition under Marion Dufresne visited Tasmania.
pets: A study stated that dogs have a visual sense for number.
pets: Starting practice in December 1993, dogs were later outlawed by the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty international agreement due to the possible risk of spreading infections.
pets: All dates are KST (UTC+9)
pets: The settlement was a failure, with the inland areas described as "wet, cold and soggy", while the coastal region was difficult to clear, as Superintendent Henry Hellyer noted the "forest [was] altogether unlike anything I have seen in the Island".
pets: Droemerdene appears as the star Canopus, who helped the first men to change from their kangaroo-like form.
pets: An etymological study of Milligan's ethnographic data describes a pantheon of spiritual beings associated with environmental or supernatural phenomena:
pets: They have difficulty differentiating between red and green, and much like other mammals, the dog's eye is composed of two types of cone cells compared to the human's three.
pets: Differing opinions have been given on Walyer's involvement with the sealers.
pets: Whelping – the act of a bitch giving birth.
pets: Reports of widespread and possibly intentional adulteration of Chinese animal feed with melamine raised the issue of melamine contamination in the human food supply, both in China and abroad.
pets: French ice dancers Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron set a new ISU best free dance score of 123.35.
pets: It also emits a foul-smelling liquid from its anal glands.
pets: Evidence indicates that absence is generally viewed as "mildly deviant workplace behavior." For example, people tend to hold negative stereotypes of absentees, under report their own absenteeism, and believe their own attendance record is better than that of their peers.
pets: Natural Balance Pet Foods recalled two products on 16 April due to kidney damage associated with melamine contamination despite the products not containing wheat gluten.
pets: A toxicology study conducted at the University of California, Davis School of Veterinary Medicine after the recalls concluded the combination of melamine and cyanuric acid in diet does lead to acute kidney injury in cats.
pets: The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) advises that dogs not intended for further breeding should be neutered so that they do not have undesired puppies that may later be euthanized.
pets: According to statistics published by the American Pet Products Manufacturers Association in the National Pet Owner Survey in 2009–2010, an estimated 77.5 million people in the United States have pet dogs.
pets: There is a long history of dog meat consumption in South Korea, but the practice has fallen out of favor.
pets: Toxocara canis (dog roundworm) eggs in dog feces can cause toxocariasis.
pets: Belly exposure in dogs can be a defensive behavior that can lead to a bite or to seek comfort.
pets: The torch relay started on 24 October 2017 in Greece and lasted for 101 days, ending at the start of the Olympics on 9 February 2018.
pets: These were offered as part of public demonstrations coordinated by the two sponsors.
pets: The "Linxia Cheetah" ("A.
pets: kurteni" was invalidated as a species when the holotype was determined to be a forgery composed of Miocene-aged fragments.
pets: NBC's Raleigh-based affiliate WRAL-TV also held demonstration viewings as part of its ATSC 3.0 test broadcasts.
pets: They had good relations with the North nation, who were allowed access to the resources of the north-west coast.
pets: ISBN 978-0-708-10741-6.
pets: A 2006 molecular analysis indicates it is phylogenetically the most basal of the four extant hyaenidae species.
pets: In 2008 baby foods contaminated with melamine in China affected an estimated 300,000 children, with hospitalisations and deaths.
pets: Australian National University Press.
pets: In a 2015 study, it was found that having a pet made people more inclined to foster positive relationships with their neighbors.
pets: Most of the outdoor snow events were held in the county of Pyeongchang, while some of the alpine skiing events took place in the neighbouring county of Jeongseon.
pets: However, there were never actually any official plans to boycott the 2018 Games and in late 2017 the Russian government agreed to allow their athletes to compete at the Games as individuals under a neutral designation.
pets: Products such as dog-training books, classes, and television programs target dog owners.
pets: Genes found in humans to be responsible for disorders are investigated in dogs as being the cause and vice versa.
pets: Aminopterin is illegal in China,
and neither Cornell University nor the FDA could replicate the New York lab's results.
pets: Felis jubatus by Johann Christian Daniel von Schreber in 1777 was based on earlier descriptions by Comte de Buffon and Thomas Pennant.
pets: Ace is just one of a number of "Wonder Dogs" in the history of fictional dogs.
pets: Instead, the FDA has suggested a second contaminant may be responsible for the ill effects and melamine, as the most easily identifiable contaminant, may serve as a biomarker, or indicator, for contaminated wheat gluten.
pets: Students with poor attendance records are found to be at a disadvantage both academically and socially.
pets: The Palawa, mainly descendants of white male sealers and Tasmanian Aboriginal women who settled on the Bass Strait islands, were given the power to decide who is of Tasmanian Aboriginal descent at the state level (entitlement to government Aboriginal services).
pets: Tasmanian ochre ranges in colour from white through yellow to red.
pets: Between 1803 and 1823, there were two phases of conflict between the Aboriginal people and the British colonists.
pets: An example given by Prof.
pets: American and Chinese authorities investigated the source of the contamination linked to pet deaths, and Chinese authorities closed down Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Company and Binzhou Futian Biology Technology Co.
pets: The several waves of recalls, many issued late on Friday evenings possibly to avoid media coverage, and the events have caused distrust in some consumers.
pets: While the human brain is dominated by a large visual cortex, the dog brain is dominated by a large olfactory cortex.
pets: It has been estimated that around 2% of dog-related injuries treated in U.K.
pets: Contemporary figures (2016) on the number of people of Tasmanian Aboriginal descent vary depending on the criteria used to determine this identity, ranging from 6,000 to over 23,000.
pets: Some puppies and dogs engage in coprophagy out of habit, stress, for attention, or boredom; most of them will not do it later in life.
pets: People with pet dogs took considerably more physical exercise than those with cats or those without pets; these effects are relatively long-term.
pets: They go away slowly, if at all, so there is the potential for chronic toxicity."
pets: There are three other species of maireeners found in Tasmanian waters.
pets: Human civilization also began to change and expand resulting in lots of these species to lose their home or hunting grounds.
pets: Possibility of cross-contamination to "safe" pet foods".
pets: Common dog parasites are lice, fleas, fly larvae, ticks, mites, cestodes, nematodes, and coccidia.
pets: In 2018, a study identified 429 genes that differed between modern dogs and modern wolves.
pets: They have members for the different purposes of life; organs for their different senses; and faculties (or powers) for the application of their different perceptions.
pets: Powers elaborated further: "But there absolutely could be more deaths from the tainted pet food....
pets: Twenty-six were definitely known (through baptismal records) to have been taken into settlers' homes as infants or very small children, too young to be of service as labourers.
pets: This timing indicates that the dog was the first species to be domesticated during the hunter-gatherer era, predating agriculture.
pets: The chemical was found in the suspected wheat gluten in raw concentrations as high as 6.6%.
pets: So this is only a percentage of the deaths that are out there.
pets: Compared to wolves, dogs from agricultural societies have extra copies of amylase and other genes involved in starch digestion that contribute to an increased ability to thrive on a starch-rich diet.
pets: Archaeological investigations in southwest and central Tasmania, including the island's highland regions, also produced evidence dating from approximately 35,000 to 11,000 BP (about 33,000-9,000 BCE), providing some of the richest archaeological evidence from Pleistocene Greater Australia.
pets: The most elaborate site is at Preminghana on the West Coast, although other significant sites exist at the Bluff in Devonport and at Greenes Creek.
pets: In 1993, Acinonyx was placed in the monophyletic subfamily Acinonychinae.
pets: The first recalls were announced by Menu Foods late on Friday, 16 March 2007, for cat and dog food products in the United States.
pets: If their territory is infringed upon by another aardwolf, they will chase the intruder away for up to 400 m (1,300 ft) or to the border.
pets: hospitals are domestic accidents.
pets: One such belief, related by an Aboriginal person from the west coast nation, was that the spirit of the dead travelled to a place over the sea: to the far north-west, called Moo-ai.
pets: Within the Roman Catholic denomination specifically, the iconography of Saint Dominic includes a dog after the saint's mother dreamt of a dog springing from her womb and became pregnant shortly after that.
pets: In Greek mythology, Cerberus is a three-headed, dragon-tailed watchdog who guards the gates of Hades.
pets: Neutering is the most common surgical procedure in dogs less than a year old in the US and is seen as a control method for overpopulation.
pets: There are records of Aboriginal huts or dwellings around the foothills of Stacks Bluff and around the headwaters of the South Esk River near modern-day Mathinna.
pets: Canadian figure skaters Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir became the most decorated figure skaters in Olympic history with a total of 5 medals.
pets: No similar statistically significant increase was seen among dogs, suggesting the contamination was more toxic to cats.
pets: The only work which takes priority over the 10th edition is Carl Alexander Clerck's Svenska Spindlar or Aranei Suecici, which was published in 1757, but is also to be treated as if published on January 1, 1758.
pets: The dental formula is 3.1.4.23.1.4.2
pets: "Aard-wolf".
pets: Dogs can injure themselves by wagging their tails forcefully; this condition is called kennel tail, happy tail, bleeding tail, or splitting tail.
pets: The aardwolf's tongue has adapted to be tough enough to withstand the strong bite of termites.
pets: They can pick up the slightest sounds from about 400 m (1,300 ft) compared to 90 m (300 ft) for humans.
pets: Deposits dating to approximately 19,000 years ago at Kutikina, or Fraser Cave, in western Tasmania, demonstrate continued occupation of Tasmania's highlands during the Ice Age and Last Glacial Maximum.
pets: The adult aardwolf was formerly assumed to forage in small groups, but more recent research has shown that they are primarily solitary foragers, necessary because of the scarcity of their insect prey.
pets: Dogs have been documented to have killed a few birds of the endangered species, the kagu, in New Caledonia.
pets: The very efforts made for their welfare only served to hasten on their inevitable doom.
pets: On 5 December 2017, the IOC announced that the Russian Olympic Committee had been suspended due to the Russian doping scandal and the investigation into the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi.
pets: Stephen Sundlof, the FDA's chief veterinarian said, "There was a sizable amount of melamine.
pets: Stillbirth was the most frequent cause of death, followed by infection.
pets: In general this species is too poorly known to properly assess its conservation status.
pets: Tasmanian Aboriginal people extensively employed fire for cooking, warmth, tool hardening, and clearing vegetation to encourage and control macropod herds.
pets: Its short, coarse fur is pale sandy in colour with five longitudinal black stripes on the back.
pets: Norwegian cross-country skier Marit Bjørgen won bronze in the women's team sprint and gold in the 30 km classical event, bringing her total Olympic medal haul to fifteen, the most won by any athlete (male or female) in Winter Olympics history.
pets: In ancient Mesopotamia, from the Old Babylonian period until the Neo-Babylonian period, dogs were the symbol of Ninisina, the goddess of healing and medicine, and her worshippers frequently dedicated small models of seated dogs to her.
pets: They are classified as a subspecies of Canis lupus, along with wolves and dingoes.
pets: Dutch speed skater Ireen Wüst won an individual gold medal for the fourth Olympics in a row, the first time this had been achieved by a Winter Olympian.
pets: In 1831, a war party of "100 or 150 stout men" attacked settlers at the base of the Western Tiers and up the Lake River, but it is unclear whether this was the action of the Panninher alone or a confederation of warriors from remnant North Tasmanian nations.
pets: This practice continues among Aboriginal women whose families survived on the Furneaux Islands, handed down by elder women to maintain an important link with the traditional lifestyle.
pets: An aardwolf may consume up to 250,000 termites per night using its long, broad, sticky tongue.
pets: The line between psychological and medical causation is blurry, given that there are positive links between both work stress and depression, and absenteeism.
pets: The art expresses the Aboriginal viewpoint on colonial history, race relations, and identity.
pets: Archaeological evidence indicates that around the time these changes occurred, the Tasmanian people began expanding their territories, a process that continued when Europeans arrived.
pets: The view on dogs in Islam is mixed, with some schools of thought viewing them as unclean, although Khaled Abou El Fadl states that this view is based on "pre-Islamic Arab mythology" and "a tradition [...] falsely attributed to the Prophet".
pets: Captain William Bligh also visited Bruny Island in 1788 and made peaceful contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians.
pets: In March 1847 six Aboriginal people at Wybalenna presented a petition to Queen Victoria, the first petition to a reigning monarch from any Aboriginal group in Australia, requesting that the promises made to them be honoured.
pets: During the breeding season, unpaired male aardwolves search their own territory, as well as others, for a female to mate with.
pets: On 30 March, both Cornell and the FDA announced the presence of melamine had been confirmed.
pets: Dated to 14,223 years ago, the dog was found buried along with a man and a woman; all three had been sprayed with red hematite powder and buried under large, thick basalt blocks.
pets: Earlier studies have shown that pet-dog or -cat guardians make fewer hospital visits and are less likely to be on medication for heart problems and sleeping difficulties than non-guardians.
pets: Dogs began diversifying in the Victorian era, when humans took control of their natural selection.
pets: Neutering often occurs as early as 6–14 weeks in shelters in the US.
pets: Prior animal studies have shown ingestion of melamine may lead to kidney stones, cancer or reproductive damage.
pets: Alibaba Group and Intel also debuted as e-commerce/cloud services and technology sponsors respectively.
pets: Aboriginal Tasmanians crossed into what is now Tasmania approximately 35,000 years ago during the Late Pleistocene, when lower sea levels during the Last Glacial Period exposed the Bassian Plain, a broad land bridge linking Tasmania to mainland Australia.
pets: It is nocturnal, resting in burrows during the day and emerging at night to seek food.
pets: Their technique consists of licking them off the ground as opposed to the aardvark, which digs into the mound.
pets: Italy and Portugal have passed recent laws that promote it.
pets: Most dogs are not born with dewclaws in their hind legs, and some are without them in their forelimbs.
pets: Ace the Wonder Dog was a German Shepherd dog actor in several films and film serials from 1938 to 1946.
pets: Abduction and ill-treatment of Aboriginal Tasmanians certainly occurred, but the extent is debated.
pets: A study of caudate responses shows that dogs tend to respond more positively to social rewards than to food rewards.
pets: Because many languages disappeared before systematic documentation occurred, linguists disagree on the exact number and classification of Tasmanian languages.
pets: In some cultures, however, dogs are also a source of meat.
pets: Between 1811 and 1827, several Aboriginal children were baptised in Launceston, either abducted or the progeny of settler/Aboriginal liaisons.
pets: Whilst sites of ritual significance to the Panninher are not known, the Panninher were known to frequent Native Point, on the South Esk River between modern day Perth and Evandale, where flint quarries were located and clans met for celebration.
pets: One study found that wolves outperformed dogs in finding food caches, likely due to a "difference in motivation" between wolves and dogs.
pets: Most poisonings are accidental; in the US more than 80% of reports of exposure to the ASPCA animal poisoning hotline are due to oral exposure.
pets: Although the numbers of dogs killed each year are relatively low, there is still a fear among humans of wolves entering villages and farmyards to take dogs, and losses of dogs to wolves have led to demands for more liberal wolf hunting regulations.
pets: In East Africa, they eat Trinervitermes bettonianus, in central Africa, they eat Trinervitermes rhodesiensis, and in southern Africa, they eat T.
pets: In particular, leopards are known to have a preference for dogs and have been recorded to kill and consume them, no matter their size.
pets: Ancestry
Self-identification
Community recognition
pets: According to Lyndall Ryan, the women traded to or kidnapped by sealers became "a significant dissident group" against European/white authority.
pets: Dogs can have the maternal instincts to start grooming their puppies, consume their puppies' feces, and protect their puppies, likely due to their hormonal state.
pets: During Linnaeus' lifetime, Systema Naturae was under continuous revision.
pets: Germany and Norway were tied for the highest number of gold medals, both winning 14.
pets: In 2019, a workshop hosted by the IUCN/Species Survival Commission's Canid Specialist Group considered the dingo and the New Guinea singing dog to be feral Canis familiaris.
pets: The Lia Pootah feel that the Palawa-controlled Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre does not represent them politically.
pets: Studies suggest that there are benefits to physical health and psychological well-being, but they have been criticized for being "poorly controlled".
pets: ISBN 978-0-226-51696-7.
pets: This is the first edition in Winter Olympic Games history to feature more than 100 medal events, four of which made their Olympic debut in 2018: "big air" snowboarding, mass start speed skating, mixed doubles curling, and mixed team alpine skiing.
pets: It was reported that spears and stones were thrown, and the French responded with musket fire, killing at least one Aboriginal person and wounding several others.
pets: Evidence from caves and occupation sites across Tasmania demonstrates long-term Aboriginal occupation during the Pleistocene.
pets: New international sponsorship deals also debuted in Pyeongchang: Toyota was introduced as the new "Mobility" sponsor of the Olympics, although the company waived its domestic sponsorship to the local competitors Hyundai and Kia due to their support of the Pyeongchang bid.
pets: When the child grew up he became an invaluable assistant to Brien but was considered "no good" by his own people as he was brought up to dislike Aboriginal people, whom he considered "dirty lazy brutes".
pets: Most breeds were derived from small numbers of founders within the last 200 years.
pets: Dogs and the modern gray wolf share a common ancestor.
pets: broadcaster NBC won a total of eight awards, winning four of the main categories: Best Olympic Feature, Best Olympic Digital Service, Best Olympic program and Best Documentary Film; they came second in the Best On-Air Promotion and Best Social Media Content/Production categories.
pets: Its head-to-body length is 40 to 50 cm (16 to 20 in) with a 40 to 45 cm (16 to 18 in) long tail.
pets: IUCN Hyaenidae Specialist Group Aardwolf pages on hyaenidae.org
Cam footage from the Namib desert https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=lRevqS6Pxgg
 Texts on Wikisource:
"Aard-wolf".
pets: they [the 'chiefs'] are upon friendly terms and often stop and meet and talk 10 days together ...
pets: They were twenty feet long by ten feet wide.
pets: Other common zoonoses are hydatid disease, leptospirosis, pasteurellosis, ringworm, and toxocariasis.
pets: However, in 1827, a port was established at Emu Bay.
pets: However, the idea of the "alpha dog" trying to be dominant is based on a controversial theory about wolf packs.
pets: I think infecundity, produced by the infidelity of the women to their husbands in the early times of the colony, may be safely added ...
pets: Contextual, isotopic, genetic, and morphological evidence shows that this dog was not a local wolf.
pets: The Letteremairrener had been recorded to have specific meeting places at Paterson's Plains (near modern-day St Leonards) and groups as large as 150 had been recorded in colonial times in this vicinity.
pets: On 20 September 2017, South Korean president Moon Jae-in stated that the country would ensure the security of the Games.
pets: The Panninher named the Liffey river tellerpanger and Drys Bluff, the mountain rearing above their homeland, was taytitkekitheker.
pets: In domestic dogs, sexual maturity happens around six months to one year for both males and females, although this can be delayed until up to two years of age in some large breeds.
pets: The world encyclopedia of dogs.
pets: The earliest remains generally accepted to be those of a domesticated dog were discovered in Bonn-Oberkassel, Germany.
pets: Up to 40 Aboriginal Tasmanians' descendants are expected to be eligible for compensation from the $5 million package.
pets: As the differences in these genes could also be found in ancient dog fossils, these were regarded as being the result of the initial domestication and not from recent breed formation.
pets: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
pets: The Panninher also freely moved from the Tamar to the central highlands and brokered trade in ochre from the Toolumbunner mine to neighbouring clans.
pets: HarperCollins Publishers L.L.C.
pets: Relations with the North Midlands nation were mostly hostile, and evidence suggests that the Douglas-Apsley region may have been a dangerous borderland rarely visited (Ferguson 1986 p.
pets: Climate drastically changed starting in the Pleistocene period, making it difficult to survive in open terrain and grasslands upon which these cats depend.
pets: A common breeding practice for pet dogs is to mate them between close relatives (e.g., between half- and full-siblings).
pets: In the ensuing months, many additional recalls were announced by Menu and other companies as the recall expanded throughout North America and to Europe and South Africa.
pets: Using dogs and other animals as a part of therapy dates back to the late-18th century, when animals were introduced into mental institutions to help socialize patients with mental disorders.
pets: Dogs are the companion animal most frequently reported for exposure to toxins.
pets: Due to the state of relations between North and South Korea, concerns were raised over the security of the 2018 Winter Olympics, especially in the wake of tensions over North Korean missile and nuclear tests.
pets: Wybalenna in the Ben Lomond language meant "dwellings" but is generally translated as "black man's houses".
pets: Another analysis of data on 42,855 Dachshund litters found that as the inbreeding coefficient increased, litter size decreased and the percentage of stillborn puppies increased, thus indicating inbreeding depression.
pets: A dispute exists within the Tasmanian Aboriginal community, however, over what constitutes Aboriginality.
pets: Dogs also have an acute sense of hearing up to four times greater than that of humans.
pets: He argued that not only was doping rife among Russian athletes but that there was no sign of it being eradicated.
pets: These traits have been enhanced in some breeds so that they may be used to hunt and kill vermin or other pests.
pets: There are no living speakers of the original Tasmanian languages.
pets: The title of Best Feature at the Youth Olympic Games Buenos Aires 2018 was also awarded to the BBC.
pets: The Pyeongchang Organizing Committee for the 2018 Olympic & Paralympic Winter Games created Pyeongchang WINNERS in 2014 by recruiting university students living in South Korea to spread awareness of the Olympic Games through social networking services and news articles.
pets: A number of young Aboriginal children were known to be living with settlers.
pets: But he failed to publish those instructions, leaving a legal framework unclear for dealing with any violent conflict.
pets: Governor Arthur sided with the "lower grade," and 1825 saw the first official acceptance that Aboriginal people were at least partly to blame for conflict.
pets: Retrieved 8 May 2016.
pets: Genetic studies have suggested much higher figures, which is supported by oral traditions that Aboriginal people were "more numerous than the white people were aware of" but that their population had been greatly reduced by a sudden outbreak of disease before 1803.
pets: Dogs bear their litters roughly 58 to 68 days after fertilization, with an average of 63 days, although the length of gestation can vary.
pets: NHK and the BBC in the United Kingdom took the other two main awards: Most Sustainable Operation and Best Athlete Profile respectively.
pets: Australian Bureau of Statistics.
pets: I think it's this melamine with other compounds that is toxic." The composition of the crystals analyzed in contaminated pet food ingredients is similar to the composition of a waste product produced in cyanuric acid production.
pets: Ryan comes to a different conclusion, that Walyer had been abducted at Port Sorell by Aboriginal people and traded to the sealers for dogs and flour.
pets: This language group is likely to have derived from three earlier Tasmanian languages.
pets: The main reasons for all but one species going extinct revolve around climate changes, humans driving these species out of their habitats, and their prey populations shrinking.
pets: After making several program pictures for RKO, Ace moved to Republic Pictures for several more projects, before moving to Columbia Pictures for a role as the Phantom's sidekick "Devil" in the serial The Phantom in 1943.
pets: A similar study claims that hyperactivity is more common in male and young dogs.
pets: The winners of the Olympic Golden Rings Awards were announced in June 2019.
pets: Six new events in existing sports were introduced to the Winter Olympic program in Pyeongchang: men's and ladies' big air snowboarding, mixed doubles curling, men's and ladies' mass start speed skating, and mixed team alpine skiing.
pets: Menu Foods acknowledged receiving the first complaints of sick pets on 20 February 2007, and initiated the recall following unexpected deaths after a regularly scheduled internal "taste test".
pets: Christopher Wozencraft listed the wolf as a wild subspecies of Canis lupus and proposed two additional subspecies: familiaris, as named by Linnaeus in 1758, and dingo, named by Meyer in 1793.
pets: Kidney failure in the animals was linked to foods manufactured in Thailand by Mars, Inc.
pets: Commenting in 1899 on Robinson's claims of success, anthropologist Henry Ling Roth wrote:While Robinson and others were doing their best to make them into a civilised people, the poor blacks had given up the struggle, and were solving the difficult problem by dying.
pets: By early January 2018, the IOC had banned 43 Russian athletes from competing in the 2018 Winter Olympics and all future Olympic Games (as part of the Oswald Commission).
pets: In 2021, a literature review of the current evidence infers that the dog was domesticated in Siberia 23,000 years ago by ancient North Siberians, then later dispersed eastward into the Americas and westward across Eurasia, with dogs likely accompanying the first humans to inhabit the Americas.
pets: Tasmanian Aboriginal authors in the past century have written history, poetry, essays, and fiction.
pets: Dogs begin socializing with other dogs by the time they reach the ages of 3 to 8 weeks, and at about 5 to 12 weeks of age, they alter their focus from dogs to humans.
pets: The region contained some of Tasmania's most important mining sites for materials such as silcrete, chert, and quartzite.
pets: Kelley, et al.
pets: Dogs are typically described as omnivores.
pets: The next day, Austria and Germany raised similar concerns and also threatened to skip the Games.
pets: Cold, pus-like blood
Have antennae: Insecta
Have tentacles: Vermes
By current standards Pisces and Vermes are informal groupings, Insecta also contained arachnids and crustaceans, and one order of Amphibia comprised sharks, lampreys, and sturgeons.
pets: The Lia Pootah object to the current test used to prove Aboriginality as they believe it favours the Palawa; a DNA test would circumvent barriers to Lia Pootah recognition, or disprove their claims to Aboriginality.
pets: The famed Aboriginal leader Umarrah was a member of this clan, and he was noted for his aggression and sustained campaign against European interlopers - although he was raised by colonials himself.
pets: These sophisticated forms of social cognition and communication may account for dogs' trainability, playfulness, and ability to fit into human households and social situations, and probably also their co-existence with early human hunter-gatherers.
pets: For example, when in a pet dog's presence, people show reductions in cardiovascular, behavioral, and psychological indicators of anxiety and are exposed to immune-stimulating microorganisms, which can protect against allergies and autoimmune diseases (according to the hygiene hypothesis).
pets: The two nations also participated separately: the South Korea team competed in every sport, while the North Korea team competed in alpine skiing, cross-country skiing, figure skating, and short track speed skating.
pets: Some Native American dogs, like the Peruvian Hairless Dog and Xoloitzcuintle, were raised to be sacrificed and eaten.
pets: Some language groups had already been severely affected by introduced diseases before large-scale British settlement began in 1803.
pets: As figure skating is one of the most popular Winter Olympic sports among U.S.
pets: After ejaculation, the dogs are coitally tied for around 5–30 minutes because of the male's bulbus glandis swelling and the female's constrictor vestibuli contracting; the male will continue ejaculating until they untie naturally due to muscle relaxation.
pets: Heart with two auricles, two ventricles.
pets: This genus of termites has different species throughout the aardwolf's range.
pets: In a study of Boxer litters, 22% of puppies died before reaching 7 weeks of age.
pets: Rageowrapper might appear borne on a strong wind or be the source of severe illness;
this malign spirit might be released from a sick individual by cutting the skin to "let him out".
pets: Jeongseon Alpine Centre – alpine skiing (downhill, super-G, combined)
pets: Approximately 4,000 years ago, Aboriginal Tasmanians largely dropped scaled fish from their diet, and began eating more land mammals, such as possums, kangaroos, and wallabies.
pets: Their 39th medal was the last gold medal won by cross-country skier Marit Bjørgen in the 30 km classical event.
pets: Like cats, dogs require arginine to maintain nitrogen balance.
pets: Dog behavior has been shaped by millennia of contact with humans.
pets: Similarly, Moinee then created the kangaroo, who emerged, like the first man, from the soil.
pets: The only living species of the genus and most commonly known, the cheetah (A.
pets: Cassandra Pybus was the claim by the Huon and Channel Aboriginal people who had an oral history of descent from two Aboriginal women.
pets: The dog can sometimes vomit and refuse food during child contractions.
pets: In it, Linnaeus introduced binomial nomenclature for animals, something he had already done for plants in his 1753 publication of Species Plantarum.
pets: These nutritional requirements place dogs halfway between carnivores and omnivores.
pets: In other areas, the farmers have recognized this, but they are still killed, on occasion, for their fur.
pets: Contemporary Palawa communities continue cultural revival projects, including the reconstruction and use of palawa kani, a composite Tasmanian Aboriginal language.
pets: Some publications theorize that dewclaws in wolves, who usually do not have dewclaws, were a sign of hybridization with dogs.
pets: Obesity correlates negatively with longevity, with one study finding obese dogs to have a life expectancy approximately a year and a half less than dogs with a healthy weight.
pets: If confronted, it may raise its mane in an attempt to appear more menacing.
pets: Dogs were introduced to Antarctica as sled dogs.
pets: They are primarily solitary animals, though during mating season they form monogamous pairs which occupy a territory with their young.
pets: The word Acinonyx is greek, the first portion of "akinetos" translates to "unmoved" or "motionless" and the second portion "onyx" translates to "nail" or "claw".
pets: The admixture of Nara toponyms in the Eastern territory of the Mara languages seem to be a relic of ancient conquests mirroring the hostilities during colonial times.
pets: Ultrasounds of animals who have eaten the contaminated food in most cases show cortical echogenicity, perirenal fluid and pyelectasia.
pets: Walyer's attacks are the first recorded use of muskets by Aboriginal people.
pets: In 2016, a study found that only 11 fixed genes showed variation between wolves and dogs.
pets: This scheduling practice affected the events themselves, including skaters having to adjust to the modified schedule, as well as attendance levels at the sessions.
pets: The dingo and the related New Guinea singing dog resulted from the geographic isolation and feralization of dogs in Oceania over 8,000 years ago.
pets: A unified Korean team, consisting of 12 players from North Korea and 23 from South Korea, competed in the women's ice hockey tournament under a special IOC country code designation (COR) following talks in Panmunjom on 17 January 2018.
pets: The Pyeongchang Organizing Committee for the 2018 Olympic & Paralympic Winter Games (POCOG) was launched at its inaugural assembly on 19 October 2011.
pets: A rap video entitled "The Regret for Pyeongchang" (평창유감), which echoed this criticism and called the event the "Pyongyang Olympics", went viral in the country.
pets: Their numbers continued to diminish, being estimated at around a dozen in 1859, and by 1869 there was only one, who died in 1876.
pets: Health benefits of dogs can result from contact with dogs in general, not solely from having dogs as pets.
pets: In April 2000, the Tasmanian Government's Legislative Council Select Committee on Aboriginal Lands discussed the difficulty of determining Aboriginality based on oral traditions.
pets: Fogle B (2009).
pets: Colonial settlers found two main language and ethnic groups in Tasmania upon their arrival, the western Nara and eastern Mara.
pets: Because of these factors, the IUCN has rated the aardwolf as least concern.
pets: A study suggests that dogs show asymmetric tail-wagging responses to different emotive stimuli.
pets: They inherited complex behaviors, such as bite inhibition, from their wolf ancestors, which would have been pack hunters with complex body language.
pets: Aboriginal Tasmanians had employed bone tools, but it appears that they switched from worked bone tools to more efficient sharpened stone tools.
pets: The Chinese company behind the contaminated wheat gluten has initially denied any involvement in the contamination, but is cooperating with Chinese and American investigators.
pets: This left the island's Aboriginal communities geographically isolated from other Aboriginal Australian groups for about 8,000 years.
pets: However, a mixed-race community of partial Tasmanian Aboriginal descent formed on the Islands, where it remains to the present, and many modern day Aboriginal Tasmanians trace their descent from the 19th century sealer communities of Bass Strait.
pets: In the Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian periods, dogs served as emblems of magical protection.
pets: Archived from the original on 16 May 2016.
pets: Dewclaws on the forelimbs are attached by bone and ligament, while the dewclaws on the hind legs are attached only by skin.
pets: They are aerial, vocal, swift and light, and destitute of external ears, lips, teeth, scrotum, womb, bladder, epiglottis, corpus callosum and its arch, and diaphragm."
Linnaeus divided the birds based upon the characters of the bill and feet, into the following 6 orders and 63 genera:
pets: Only 44 survived the trip (11 couples, 12 single men and 10 children) and the children were immediately sent to the orphan school in Hobart.
pets: Gold medals contained 99 percent of silver and 1 percent of gold, which is a traditional composition for Olympic gold medals.
pets: The specific name cristatus is derived from Latin and means "provided with a comb or tuft", relating to its mane.
pets: Robinson always enumerates the sexes of the individuals he took; ...
pets: Dutch athlete Jorien ter Mors became the first female athlete to win Olympic medals in two different sports at a single Winter Games; she won a speed skating gold medal in the 1000 m and she was also part of the Dutch short track team that won bronze in the 3000 m relay.
pets: Unlike other hyenas, aardwolves do not scavenge or kill larger animals.
pets: Neutering reduces problems caused by hypersexuality, especially in male dogs.
pets: Dogs use their carnassial teeth to cut food into bite-sized chunks, more especially meat.
pets: This classification was informed by a 1999 mitochondrial DNA study.
pets: A 2021 study found the genetic differences in eastern and southern aardwolves may be pronounced enough to categorize them as species.
pets: The previous record of seven Winter Olympics was held by Russian luger Albert Demchenko.
pets: Between about 14,000 and 12,000 BCE, rising sea levels submerged the Bassian Plain and formed Bass Strait, separating Tasmania from mainland Australia.
pets: They will also dig their own dens, or enlarge dens started by springhares.
pets: However, many sources speculate that the actual number of affected pets may never be known, and experts think that the actual death toll could potentially reach into the thousands.
pets: According to the guards, the Aboriginal people developed "too much independence" by trying to continue their culture, which they considered "recklessness" and "rank ingratitude".
pets: The low rate of genetic drift indicates that Stockton's original maximum estimate is likely the lower boundary and, while not indicated by the archaeological record, a population as high as 100,000 can "not be rejected out of hand".
pets: They too, were not immediately able to pinpoint the cause of the sicknesses, so they sent samples to the New York State Food Laboratory, a part of the federally funded Food Emergency Response Network.
pets: By January 1832, a further 44 captured Aboriginal residents had arrived, and conflicts arose between the tribal groups.
pets: To the south, their country was constrained by the uplands beyond Tunbridge, as the plains narrowed towards Big River and Oyster Bay country.
pets: said that 'the smoke...was that of the Ben Lomond-Pennyroyal Creek natives'".
pets: Researchers have focused on the role of melamine and related compounds in causing kidney failure.
pets: The chemical is known to have a very low toxicity in rodents.
pets: Smith B, ed.
pets: Bonwick also reports a number of claims of brutality by sealers towards Aboriginal women, including some of those made by Robinson.
pets: Although the housing and food were better than Wybalenna, the station was a former convict station that had been abandoned earlier that year due to health issues, as it was located on inadequately drained mudflats.
pets: The skull is similar in shape to those of other hyenas, though much smaller, and its cheek teeth are specialised for eating insects.
pets: Most dogs can swim.
pets: The key determinant of camp sites was topography.
pets: The first work to consistently apply binomial nomenclature across the animal kingdom was the 10th edition of Systema Naturae.
pets: It is still consumed in some East Asian countries, including China, Vietnam, Korea, Indonesia, and the Philippines.
pets: Of those athletes, 42 appealed against their bans to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) and 28 of the appeals were successful, but eleven of the athletes had their sanctions upheld due to the weight of evidence against them.
pets: Cold, red blood
Lungs voluntary: Amphibia
External gills: Pisces
Heart with one auricle, no ventricles.
pets: The divergence of the eye axis of dogs ranges from 12 to 25°, depending on the breed, which can have different retina configurations.
pets: These breeds possess distinct traits related to morphology, which include body size, skull shape, tail phenotype, fur type, and colour.
pets: Josephine Flood, an archaeologist specialising in Australian mainland Aboriginal peoples, notes: "he encountered strong resistance from the women as well as sealers".
pets: The first six to eight weeks are spent in the den with their parents.
pets: Dominant males even go a step further and as the breeding season approaches, they make increasingly greater and greater incursions onto weaker males' territories.
pets: Beginning in March 2007, there was a widespread recall of many brands of cat and dog foods due to contamination with melamine and cyanuric acid.
pets: Additionally, dogs are a source of zoonoses for humans.
pets: Smaller sites include the cupules at meenamatta Blue Tier and isolated circle motifs at Trial Harbour.
pets: There are many people currently working in the community, academia, various levels of government, and NGOs to strengthen Tasmanian Aboriginal culture and improve the conditions of the descendant community.
pets: Several venues were outfitted with 5G networks to facilitate features such as live camera feeds from bobsleds, and multi-camera views from cross-country and figure skating events.
pets: In the past 20 years, there has been a decline in the number of shells, since the decline in kelp and seaweed growth around Flinders Island, Cape Barren, and Big Dog islands due to climate change, which has led to erosion of the sea bed.
pets: Photographer Ricky Maynard has had his work exhibited internationally, and his documentary style "brings to light the stories of Aboriginal people where they have previously been absent or distorted.
pets: In the United States, there has been extensive media coverage of the recall.
pets: Amalie Dietrich, for example, became famous for delivering such specimens.
pets: It is missing the throat spot that others in the family have.
pets: Wang X, Tedford RH (2008).
pets: The eastern aardwolf, during the rainy season, subsists on termites from the genera Odontotermes and Macrotermes.
pets: This trait is influenced by those genes which act in the neural crest, which led to the phenotypes observed in modern dogs.
pets: They socialised, intermarried, and fought "wars" against other clans.
pets: The British had several hostile encounters with Aboriginal clans over the next five months, with shots fired and an Aboriginal boy abducted.
pets: Dogs have about twice the number of neurons in their cerebral cortexes than what cats have, which suggests they could be about twice as intelligent.
pets: In the 2005 edition of Mammal Species of the World, mammalogist W.
pets: Between 1830 and 1835, most surviving Aboriginal people were removed to the Wybalenna Aboriginal Establishment on Flinders Island in the Bass Strait.
pets: Every dispatch from Governor Arthur to the Secretary of State during this period stressed that in every case where Aboriginal people had been killed, it was colonists who initiated hostilities.
pets: Genetic studies show that dogs likely diverged from wolves between 27,000 and 40,000 years ago.
pets: Cunliffe J (2004).
pets: Walyer was later to gain some notoriety for her attempts to kill the sealers to escape their brutality.
pets: In Ethiopia, Abyssinian genets were observed up to 3,750 m (12,300 ft) in the Abune Yosef massif.
pets: Studies of two dogs suggest that dogs can learn by inference.
pets: The Ben Lomond nation is sometimes described as the Ben Lomond/Pennyroyal Creek nation from an entry in Robinson's journal:
"(Mannalargenna) ...
pets: In Vietnam, about 5 million dogs are slaughtered annually.
pets: Pet-dog populations grew significantly after World War II as suburbanization increased.
pets: This leads to even greater absenteeism and reduced productivity among other workers.
pets: Early on, scientists felt that it was merely mimicking the striped hyena, which subsequently led to the creation of Protelidae.
pets: The aardwolf is the only surviving species in the subfamily Protelinae.
pets: "Stimuli that could be expected to elicit approach tendencies seem to be associated with [a] higher amplitude of tail-wagging movements to the right side".
pets: Japanese athlete Yuzuru Hanyu became the fourth male figure skater (after Gillis Grafström, Karl Schäfer, and Dick Button) to win two consecutive Olympic gold medals.
pets: No legal action or repercussions have as yet occurred regarding these cases.
pets: On 27 March, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals reported the symptoms described in affected animals are not "fully consistent with the ingestion of rat poison containing aminopterin."
pets: intermedius were found in parts of Europe and Asia.
pets: A negative reinforcement meaning that the student is avoiding school.
pets: The jaw contains around 42 teeth, and it has evolved for the consumption of flesh.
pets: By the time the next set of cubs is born, the older cubs have moved on.
pets: The closing ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics was held at the Pyeongchang Olympic Stadium on 25 February 2018.
pets: Tamar River: kunermurluker, morerutter, ponrabbel
Low Head: Pilerwaytackenter
Georgetown area: Kennemerthertackenloongentare
Launceston (Port Dalrymple): Taggener, Lorernulraytitteter
North-Esk River: Lakekeller
Mt Barrow: Pialermaligena
pets: Linnaeus described his "Vermes" as: "Animals of slow motion, soft substance, able to increase their bulk and restore parts which have been destroyed, extremely tenacious of life, and the inhabitants of moist places.
pets: Dogs are extremely variable in size, ranging from one of the largest breeds, the Great Dane, at 50–79 kg (110–174 lb) and 71–81 cm (28–32 in), to one of the smallest, the Chihuahua, at 0.5–3 kg (1.1–6.6 lb) and 13–20 cm (5.1–7.9 in).
pets: International sales were more favourable, with 59.7% of the 320,000 allocated tickets sold.
pets: One of the primary functions of a dog's tail is to communicate their emotional state.
pets: Oral traditions have also been studied alongside archaeological evidence in research into the environmental history of the Bassian Plain and the formation of Bass Strait.
pets: We are focusing on the melamine right now because we believe that, even if melamine is not the causative agent, it is somehow associated with the causative agent, so it serves as a marker".
pets: Menu Foods' recalled products alone represent nearly 100 brands of cat and dog food, and as of 11 April, are the only brands known to have caused sickness in animals.
pets: The IOC Coordination Commission for the 2018 Winter Olympics made their first visit to Pyeongchang in March 2012.
pets: The species does not occur in the intermediary miombo forests.
pets: They traded the ochre with nearby clanspeople.
pets: The process of identifying and accounting for the source of the contamination and how the contaminant causes sickness is ongoing.
pets: Japan's foreign affairs minister Tarō Kōno warned South Korea to be wary of North Korea's "charm offensive", and not to ease its pressure on the country.
pets: These were selected from an original pool of 500 athletes that was put forward for consideration and, in order to receive an invitation to the Games, they were obliged to meet a number of pre-games conditions.
pets: A total of 2,914 athletes from 93 teams competed, with the national debuts of Ecuador, Eritrea, Kosovo, Malaysia, Nigeria and Singapore.
pets: Dutch speed skater Sven Kramer won gold in the men's 5000 m event, becoming the only male speed skater to win the same Olympic event three times.
pets: Robinson recorded several discussions about spiritual entities that his companions described as having agency or a source of interpretive power to aid in navigating their physical world.
pets: Dogs were the first species to be domesticated over 14,000 years ago, before the development of agriculture, though genetic studies suggest the domestication process may have begun over 25,000 years ago.
pets: The next day, Laura Flessel-Colovic, the French Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports, stated that France would pull out of the Games if the safety of its delegation could not be guaranteed.
pets: In a 2023 study of 58 dogs, some dogs classified as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder-like showed lower serotonin and dopamine concentrations.
pets: Later imprisoned on Swan Island, she attempted to organise a rebellion.
pets: Measurements such as the Bradford factor, a measurement tool to analyze absenteeism which believes short and unplanned absences affect the work group more than long term absences, do not distinguish between absence for genuine illness reasons and absence for non-illness related reasons.
pets: Basket-like carriers were made from plant materials, kelp, or animal skin.
pets: Which represents one the main traits used to recognize this genus, not being able to retract their claws fully.
pets: Barbara Powers, AAVLD president and director of the Colorado State University Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, said the survey probably found only a percentage of the actual cases.
pets: This was also a significant site of tribal meeting, celebration, and trading.
pets: Acinonyx is a genus that is within the Felidae family, also known as the cat family.
pets: In addition to repeating the species he had previously listed in his Species Plantarum (1753), and those published in the intervening period, Linnaeus described several hundred new plant species.
pets: Linnaeus described fish as: "Always inhabiting the waters; are swift in their motion and voracious in their appetites.
pets: While many pet owners consider their pets to be a "part of the family", lost pets have traditionally been treated as property, with the potential liability limited to the retail value of the animal.
pets: Archaeological evidence also indicates signs of continuous occupation at permanent lagoons near Cleveland, which was known historically as a clan meeting place.
pets: Dogs and insecticides are also common killers of the aardwolf.
pets: Studies have found a small to moderate correlation between dog-ownership and increased adult physical-activity levels.
pets: Geoffrey Blainey, for example, wrote that by 1830 in Tasmania: "Disease had killed most of them but warfare and private violence had also been devastating." Keith Windschuttle claimed that in addition to disease, the prostitution of women in a society already in decline, explained the extinction.
pets: Acinonyx hecki by Hilzheimer in 1913 was a captive cheetah from Senegal in the Berlin Zoological Garden, named in honour of the zoo's director.
pets: All of these conditions have vaccines available.
pets: Retrieved 16 July 2017.
pets: McFarlane writes that she voluntarily joined the sealers with members of her family and was responsible for attacking Aboriginal people and white settlers alike.
pets: Puppy or pup – a young member of the species (or subspecies) under 12 months old.
pets: Dog breeds vary widely in shape, size, and color.
pets: Norway won a total of 39 medals, setting a new record for the highest number of medals won at a single Winter Olympics.
pets: In 1828, Tarerenorerer (English name: Walyer), a woman who had escaped from sealers, became the leader of the Emu Bay people and attacked the settlers with stolen weapons, the first recorded use of muskets by Aboriginal people.
pets: In the case of Tasmanians, as with other wild tribes accustomed to going naked, the use of clothes had a most mischievous effect on their health.
pets: These gene variations indicate the occurrence of artificial selection and the subsequent divergence of behavior and anatomical features.
pets: This is the time at which female dogs will have their first estrous cycle, characterized by their vulvas swelling and producing discharges, usually lasting between 4 and 20 days.
pets: Measurement methods are not exact and all encompassing, resulting in skewed results depending on variables being observed.
pets: They occupied the 260 km2 of country surrounding the Ben Lomond plateau.
pets: Therefore, when threatened, the aardwolf may attempt to mislead its foe by doubling back on its tracks.
pets: An estimated 30 million dogs are killed and consumed in Asia every year.
pets: At the closing ceremony, North Korea sent general Kim Yong-chol as its delegate.
pets: Fossil remains related to cheetah-like cats were excavated that date back to the late Pliocene and Middle Pleistocene, indicating a wide time range.
pets: The most common household products ingested are cleaning products.
pets: Lyndall Ryan reports fifty-eight Aboriginal people, of various ages, living with settlers in Tasmania in the period up to 1835.
pets: Mannalargenna would be familiar with the clans neighbouring his own traditional country and could be relied upon to report accurately the composition of the clanspeople in question.
pets: Fertilization typically occurs two to five days after ovulation.
pets: Also called the domestic dog, it was selectively bred during the Late Pleistocene by hunter-gatherers.
pets: Weight pulling, a dog sport involving pulling weight, has been criticized for promoting doping and for its risk of injury.
pets: But, as the Aboriginal writer Greg Lehman states, "Aboriginal culture (is not) past tense." Aboriginal people, in a variety of forms, continue to express their culture in unique ways – expressing themes that lament the past but also celebrate the endurance and continuity of culture into the future.
pets: Please refer to the external links section for more resources.
pets: by Nathan Maynard, a Belvoir St Theatre production starring Luke Carroll, premiered in Sydney in 2022, and back for another run there before touring to Brisbane, Adelaide, and Hobart in 2023.
pets: Since then, South Korea made great progress in preparing to host the Winter Olympics and succeeded in hosting the 2018 Olympics after three challenges.
pets: The official sanctions imposed by the IOC included: the exclusion of Russian government officials from the Games; the use of the Olympic flag and Olympic Anthem in place of the Russian flag and anthem; and the submission of a replacement logo for the OAR uniforms.
pets: Absorbed populations in eastern Tasmania combined with Victorian speakers to form the Mara language group across broader eastern Tasmania.
pets: A Royal Proclamation in 1828 established military posts on the boundaries, and a further proclamation declared martial law against the Aboriginal people.
pets: The clan Tyerrernotepanner was one of up to four clans in the south central Midlands area.
pets: As a result of investigating the 2007 pet food recalls, a broader Chinese protein export contamination investigation unfolded, raising concerns about the safety of the human food supply.
pets: John Batman describes the seasonal movement of the Plangermaireener in his diary of May 1830:
pets: Termites of this family depend on dead and withered grass and are most populous in heavily grazed grasslands and savannahs, including farmland.
pets: About 20% of the dog population live in developed countries.
pets: They have the same number of bones (with the exception of the tail), powerful jaws that house around 42 teeth, and well-developed senses of smell, hearing, and sight.
pets: Late in the nineteenth century, a number of women sought to keep this part of their traditional culture alive so their daughters and granddaughters could participate in it.
pets: On 4 October 2011, it was announced that the Organizing Committee for the 2018 Winter Olympics would be headed by Kim Jin-sun.
pets: In order to be counted in our survey, you had to meet certain criteria....
pets: Litter – all of the puppies resulting from a single whelping.
pets: The authors noted that their study included "designer dogs" as crossbred and that purebred dogs were typically given better care than their crossbred counterparts, which likely influenced the outcome of the study.
pets: Plants were carefully selected to produce strong, thin, narrow strips of fibre of suitable length for basket making.
pets: The female dog (bitch) may produce colostrum, a type of milk high in nutrients and antibodies, 1–7 days before giving birth.
pets: White here does not refer to European, but rather the skeletal or phantasmic nature of the returned dead.
pets: New plant species described in the 10th edition of Systema Naturae include:
pets: He inferred the names of novel things by exclusion learning and correctly retrieved those new items after four weeks of the initial exposure.
pets: Dogs have roughly forty times more smell-sensitive receptors than humans, ranging from about 125 million to nearly 300 million in some dog breeds, such as bloodhounds.
pets: In colonial times, reports were made of clusters of huts, up to ten in number, in the Tamar valley, and there are extensive archaeological remains of occupation on both sides of the Tamar river and the north coastal country.
pets: cans, Diamond Lamb & Rice Formula for Dogs 13 oz.
pets: Introduced venereal disease not only directly caused deaths but, more insidiously, left a significant percentage of the population unable to reproduce.
pets: Dogs also feature in association with the Greek goddess Hecate.
pets: Tasmanian Aborigines in their own write: a collection of writings by Tasmanian Aborigines.
pets: This marked the first time since the Korean War that a member of the ruling Kim dynasty had visited South Korea.
pets: Paid leave reduces absence.
pets: The work of historian James Bonwick and anthropologist H.
pets: This finds empirical support in a negative association between absence and job satisfaction, in particular, the satisfaction with the work itself.
pets: NHK and Olympic Broadcasting Services (OBS) once again filmed portions of the Games in high-dynamic-range 8K resolution video, including 90 hours of footage of selected events and the opening ceremonies.
pets: The Abyssinian genet (Genetta abyssinica), also known as the Ethiopian genet, is a genet species native to Ethiopia, Eritrea, Somalia, Sudan, and Djibouti.
pets: Linnaeus described mammals as: "Animals that suckle their young by means of lactiferous teats.
pets: Themes consistent in modern Tasmanian Aboriginal art are loss, kinship, narratives of dispossession, but also survival.
pets: The dog had survived canine distemper as a puppy - survival without intensive human care is unlikely, and occurred at an age before the dog could have had any utilitarian use.
pets: Recent genetic studies have shown that this subspecies separated from African populations roughly 32,000 to 67,000 years ago, suggesting a prolonged adaptation to dry landscapes.
pets: In the second decade of that century, they had reached some accommodation with the interlopers and were observed practising spear throwing near present-day Paterson Barracks and watching colonial women wash clothes at Cataract Gorge.
pets: Here local historians believe that cemetery (hollowed) trees were used to inter the dead.
pets: Robinson related that one design for an Aboriginal hut was very accurately drawn and created with a kind of wooden compass.
pets: By 5 April 2007 the 20 March Chicago lawsuit expanded to federal class-action status, with over 200 plaintiffs seeking punitive damages for emotional distress.
pets: After campaigning by Tasmanian Aboriginal people in April 2023, UNESCO removed a document claiming they were extinct.
pets: In 1945, he appeared as "Rusty" in The Adventures of Rusty, the first of Columbia's eight "Rusty" films.
pets: When their last coal was extinguished, they would ask fire from neighbouring hearths or clans, but also probably used friction fire-starting methods and possibly mineral percussion, despite claims that the native Tasmanians had "lost" the ability to make fire.
pets: South Korea has traditionally been a country that won many medals in short track speed skating, but in this competition, it also won medals in skeleton racing, curling and skiing.
pets: Population estimates from the early nineteenth century suggest approximately 400–500 people across five principal clans.
pets: Droemerdene subsequently fell into the sea at Louisa Bay.
pets: Melamine can be detected in blood or urine tests.
pets: Their dens are usually abandoned aardvark, springhare, or porcupine dens, or on occasion they are crevices in rocks.
pets: The dog's skull has identical components regardless of breed type, but there is significant divergence in terms of skull shape between types.
pets: Earlier remains dating back 30,000 years have been described as Paleolithic dogs, but their status as dogs or wolves remains debated because considerable morphological diversity existed among wolves during the Late Pleistocene.
pets: They have acquired the ability to understand and communicate with humans and are uniquely attuned to human behaviors.
pets: To the east, the natural boundary was the South-Esk River and, running northwards, the high tier of Mts Barrow, Arthur, and Tippogoree Hills: beyond which lay the North-east nation.
pets: CSIRO Publishing, Melbourne, Australia.
pets: Necklaces were used for adornment, as gifts and tokens of honour, and as trading objects.
pets: These absences cause little to no disruption to work spaces because of the time given to work around the absence.
pets: By the Ancients they were not improperly called imperfect animals, as being destitute of ears, nose, head, eyes and legs; and are therefore totally distinct from Insects."
Linnaeus divided the "Vermes" based upon the structure of the body, into the following orders and genera:
pets: First explored by Europeans in 1824, the region was considered inhospitable and only lightly settled, although it suffered a high rate of Aboriginal dispossession and killings.
pets: Progress was incorporated into new and ever-expanding editions; for example, in his 1st edition (1735), whales and manatees were originally classified as species of fish (as was thought to be the case then).
pets: In contrast, U.S.
pets: Coyotes and big cats have also been known to attack dogs.
pets: The aardwolf is about 55 to 80 cm (22 to 31 in) long, excluding its bushy tail, which is about 20–30 cm (7.9–11.8 in) long, and stands about 40 to 50 cm (16 to 20 in) tall at the shoulders.
pets: Furthermore, several small lagoons in the midlands area all show substantial archaeological evidence of regular occupation consistent with tool-making and semi-nomadic use.
pets: The study concluded that during early dog domestication, the initial selection was for behavior.
pets: A primary characteristic of this genus are bodies adapted for speed and swiftness; however the species at the time were much different in morphology.
pets: They are principally distinguished by their tentacles (or feelers).
pets: Puppies or dogs sometimes bury food underground.
pets: The Big River people are an Aboriginal group described in early colonial and ethnographic sources as being associated with the Central Highlands and upper river systems of central Tasmania, including the Ouse, Clyde, and Dee rivers.
pets: The coats of certain breeds are often groomed to a characteristic style, for example, the Yorkshire Terrier's "show cut".
pets: The same day, lawyers for a Knoxville, Tennessee woman filed suit in Federal Court against Menu Foods for $25 million and hoping to attain class action status, citing negligence in testing the food prior to distribution.
pets: They do not destroy the termite mound or consume the entire colony, thus ensuring that the termites can rebuild and provide a continuous supply of food.
pets: The eventual number of neutral Russian athletes that participated at the 2018 Games was 168.
pets: There has been widespread public outrage and calls for government regulation of pet foods, which had previously been self-regulated by pet food manufacturers.
pets: Its ears, which are large, are very similar to those of the striped hyena.
pets: In external and internal structure they resemble man: most of them are quadrupeds; and with man, their natural enemy, inhabit the surface of the Earth.
pets: Children who fit within multiple profiles had the highest level of behavioral problems, and children in the no-profile group had the lowest.
pets: Compared to their peers, these students are more at risk of academic under-performance and early school leaving.
pets: Human family members have increased participation in activities in which the dog is an integral partner, such as dog dancing and dog yoga.
pets: One study suggests that dogs can feel small variations in Earth's magnetic field.
pets: This also forced some species to be isolated making reproducing more difficult.
pets: These roles in human society have earned them the nickname "man's best friend" in the Western world.
pets: The primary victims of dog bite incidents are children.
pets: US$17) to ₩900,000 (~US$787) while tickets for the opening and closing ceremonies ranged from ₩220,000 (~US$192) to ₩1.5 million (~US$1311).
pets: Developed countries make up approximately 20% of the global dog population, while around 75% of dogs are estimated to be from developing countries, mainly in the form of feral and street dogs.
pets: Dog communication is the transfer of information between dogs, as well as between dogs and humans.
pets: During glacial periods, arid conditions extended from southern Australia into the midlands of central Tasmania, interrupted by warmer and wetter intervals.
pets: pardinensis and A.
pets: With their acute sense of hearing, dogs rely on the auditory aspect of communication for understanding and responding to various cues, including the distinctive barking patterns that convey different messages.
pets: Individual clans ranged over a defined nation boundary with elaborate rites of entry required of visitors.
pets: Pandemic absenteeism 
Absence due to illness and disability has ballooned since the pandemic.
pets: Even at the highest observed concentrations found in wheat gluten, the melamine exposure is much smaller than the rat and mouse doses for which effects were seen.
pets: This management may have caused the buttongrass plains in southwest Tasmania to develop to their current extent.
pets: The mane is raised during confrontations to make the aardwolf appear larger.
pets: Eyewitness accounts suggest the South East nation may have comprised up to ten clans, with an estimated population of around 500 people.
pets: Moinee fought with his brother Droemerdene, and many "devils", after Droemerdene changed the shape of the first men, and Moinee was finally hurled to his death from the sky to take form as a standing stone at Cox Bight.
pets: Milligan (a contemporary at Wyballenna) described a creator spirit called tiggana marrabona – translating as "twilight man" but, as referred to above, there are a number of supernatural beings associated with creation.
pets: Patricks Head – Georges Bay and round the East Coast
Batman further describes the relationship between the clans of the Ben Lomond nation and the North East nation:
pets: On 23 March 2007, Menu Foods said they will reimburse pet owners who can trace their pets' illnesses to the company's products.
pets: This excludes pregnancy, childbirth, and puerperium.
pets: They often memorize the location of such nests and return to them every few months.
pets: Map tracing the spread of contaminated ingredients.
pets: Usage of the term varies across historical literature and does not correspond neatly with the individual clan names recorded elsewhere in colonial accounts.
pets: Because the ova survive and can be fertilized for a week after ovulation, more than one male can sire the same litter.
pets: On the plateau, there is evidence of artifacts around Lake Youl that suggests regular occupation of this site by Aboriginal peoples after the last ice age.
pets: Baskets had many uses, including carrying food, tools, shells, ochre, and eating utensils.
pets: However, of the 220 who arrived with Robinson, most died in the following 14 years from introduced disease and inadequate shelter.
pets: Many Tasmanian Aboriginal women were highly skilled in hunting seals, as well as in obtaining other foods such as seabirds, and some Tasmanian tribes would trade their services and, more rarely, those of Aboriginal men to the sealers for the seal-hunting season.
pets: After more than three weeks of complaints from consumers, the recall began voluntarily with the Canadian company Menu Foods on 16 March 2007, when a company test showed sickness and death in some of the test animals.
pets: An example of this dispersal is the numerous modern breeds of European lineage during the Victorian era.
pets: Some dog breeds are hairless, while others have a very thick corded coat.
pets: Pyeongchang was selected as the host city for the 2018 Winter Games at the 123rd IOC Session in Durban, South Africa, on 6 July 2011.
pets: Its uses include ceremonial body marking, colouring wood craft products, tie-dyeing, and other crafts and arts.
pets: At the settlement, they were compelled to wear clothes, which they threw off when heated or found troublesome, and when wet by rain, allowed them to dry on their bodies.
pets: Jones AF, Hamilton F (1971).
pets: They will, on occasion during the winter, become diurnal feeders.
pets: Aardwolves generally achieve sexual maturity at one and a half to two years of age.
pets: Boddy finds the same dynamic where there is a corporate psychopath in the organization.
pets: Noriaki Kasai of Japan became the first athlete in history to participate in eight Winter Olympics when he took part in the ski jumping qualification the day before the opening of the Games.
pets: Neutering is less common in most European countries, especially in Nordic countries—except for the UK, where it is common.
pets: Sire – the male parent of a litter.
pets: Furneaux speakers displaced Palawa in north-east Tasmania as far south as Orford.
pets: Wolves: Behavior, Ecology, and Conservation.
pets: According to pathologists: "These results indicate that the pet food–associated kidney failure outbreaks in 2004 and 2007 share identical clinical, histologic, and toxicologic findings, providing compelling evidence that they share the same causation."
pets: Witnesses to the massacre stated that between three and fifty Aboriginal men, women, and children had died.
pets: Similar to humans, some dog breeds produce amylase in their saliva and are classified as having a high-starch diet.
pets: The report was never released, and the government continued to promote Wybalenna as a success in the treatment of Aboriginal people.
pets: From this, we can be certain that there were three major clan divisions, described by colonials as the Port Dalrymple tribe (Leterrermairrener clan), at the Tamar River; the Pennyroyal Creek tribe (Panninher), at Norfolk Plains; and the Stony Creek tribe (Tyrrernotepanner), at Campbell Town.
pets: For most of the year, aardwolves spend time in shared territories consisting of up to a dozen dens, which are occupied for six weeks at a time.
pets: Sealers engaged in raids along the coasts to abduct Aboriginal women and were reported to have killed Aboriginal men in the process.
pets: Traditionally, Aboriginal women had the exclusive role of obtaining ochre, and many Tasmanian Aboriginal men continue to respect this custom by obtaining ochre only from women.
pets: Also, South Korea became the second country in Asia to host both the Summer (1988 Summer Olympics) and Winter Olympics.
pets: During that period, the Banfield vets saw 100,000 cats.
pets: Caution must be exercised as to the provenance of the names and the complete accuracy of attributing discrete geographical regions.
pets: Some names, such as "Mouheneenner", reflect terms used in early colonial records and may not reflect the names people used themselves.
pets: This footage was delivered in 4K in the U.S.
pets: Henry Reynolds attributed the depletion to losses in the Black War.
pets: The contamination was caused by melamine in the affected foods.
pets: In Persian mythology, two four-eyed dogs guard the Chinvat Bridge.
pets: As such, the Dominican Order (Ecclesiastical Latin: Domini canis) means "dog of the Lord" or "hound of the Lord".
pets: The total population of the North Midlands nation has been estimated to be between 300 and 500 and, although migratory, the archaeological and historical record infers seasonal residency in locations adjacent to permanent water sources in the Midlands valley.
pets: In 2018, the South Korean government passed a bill banning restaurants that sell dog meat from doing so during that year's Winter Olympics.
pets: The Panninher, or their neighbouring clansmen, retaliated in various attacks against settlers at Western Lagoon and in remote country up the Lake River, reaching a peak in aggression against the colonial interlopers by 1827.
pets: by NBCUniversal parent Comcast to participating television providers, including its own Xfinity, as well as DirecTV and Dish Network.
pets: Much traditional knowledge has irrevocably disappeared, and what remains has been nurtured over several generations, starting with the Aboriginal wives of sealers on the Furneaux Islands.
pets: Historian Lyndall Ryan records that 74 Aboriginal people (almost all women) lived with sealers on the Bass Strait islands up to 1835.
pets: In a study of seven dog breeds (the Bernese Mountain Dog, Basset Hound, Cairn Terrier, Brittany, German Shepherd Dog, Leonberger, and West Highland White Terrier), it was found that inbreeding decreases litter size and survival.
pets: Puppies are born with a protective fetal membrane that the mother usually removes shortly after birth.
pets: For this reason, many sources speculate the full extent of the pet deaths and sicknesses caused by the contamination may never be known.
