adobe_inc.: Narayen was expected to stay on until a new CEO was identified and remain as chairman.
adobe_inc.: Adobe offered a discount on Dreamweaver for GoLive users and supports those who still use GoLive with online tutorials and migration assistance.
adobe_inc.: After Adobe revealed the pricing for the Creative Suite 3 Master Collection, which was £1,000 higher for European customers, a petition to protest over "unfair pricing" was published and signed by 10,000 users.
adobe_inc.: Observers noted that Adobe was spying on its customers by including spyware in the Creative Suite 3 software and quietly sending user data to a firm named Omniture.
adobe_inc.: At Photoshop World 2011, Adobe unveiled a new mobile photo service.
adobe_inc.: Adobe offered a bundled solution of its products named Adobe Creative Suite, which evolved into a subscription-based offering named Adobe Creative Cloud.
adobe_inc.: The Windows version of Photoshop includes 64-bit processing.
adobe_inc.: Apple subsequently developed a competing standard, TrueType, which provided full scalability and precise control of the pixel pattern created by the font's outlines, and licensed it to Microsoft.
adobe_inc.: When a security flaw was later discovered in Photoshop CS5, Adobe sparked outrage by saying it would leave the flaw unpatched, so anyone who wanted to use the software securely would have to pay for an upgrade.
adobe_inc.: In 2012, about 40 million sets of payment card information were compromised by a hack at Adobe.
adobe_inc.: Adobe was founded in December 1982 by John Warnock and Charles Geschke, who established the company after leaving Xerox PARC to develop and sell the PostScript page description language.
adobe_inc.: Many of the credit cards were tied to the Creative Cloud software-by-subscription service.
adobe_inc.: Department of Justice and the FTC filed a lawsuit against Adobe and two of its executives in June 2024, alleging that the company's deceptive subscription practices and cancellation policies violated the Restore Online Shoppers' Confidence Act.
adobe_inc.: The transaction is valued at $1.275 billion and closed during the fourth quarter of Adobe's 2021 fiscal year.
adobe_inc.: Adobe paid Figma a $1 billion termination fee per their merger agreement.
adobe_inc.: Many also showed their cancellation fees for Adobe Creative Cloud, with this leading to many encouraging piracy of Adobe products and/or purchase of alternatives with lower prices or using free and open-source software instead.
adobe_inc.: It has historically specialized in software for the creation and publication of a wide range of content, including graphics, photography, illustration, animation, multimedia/video, motion pictures and print.
adobe_inc.: Instead, it would focus on HTML5 for mobile devices.
adobe_inc.: When Adobe acquired Macromedia in December 2005, it stalled development of FreeHand in 2007, effectively rendering it obsolete.
adobe_inc.: They weren't able to work with Compugraphic, but then worked with Linotype to license the Helvetica and Times Roman fonts (through the Linotron 100).
adobe_inc.: Adobe's currently supported roster of software, online services and file formats comprises the following (as of October 2022):
adobe_inc.: Former Omniture products were integrated into the Adobe Marketing Cloud.
adobe_inc.: When users became aware, Adobe explained what the suspicious software did and admitted that they: "could and should do a better job taking security concerns into account".
adobe_inc.: Adobe has been criticized for pushing unwanted software including third-party browser toolbars and free virus scanners, usually as part of the Flash update process, and for pushing a third-party scareware program designed to scare users into paying for unneeded system repairs.
adobe_inc.: Adobe, among other software companies, were in investor crosshairs amid concerns about competitive threats from increased AI adoption.
adobe_inc.: auto lip-sync in Adobe Character Animator CC and face-aware editing in Photoshop CC, and also cloud-based AI/ML items and features, for example, picture investigation for Adobe Stock and Lightroom CC and auto-labeling in Adobe Experience Supervisor.
adobe_inc.: Adobe's Flash Player has also been criticized for, among other things, suffering from performance, memory usage and security problems.
adobe_inc.: In 1985, Apple Computer licensed PostScript for use in its LaserWriter printers, which helped spark the desktop publishing revolution.
adobe_inc.: Adobe later admitted that 38 million active users have been affected and the attackers obtained access to their IDs and encrypted passwords, as well as to many inactive Adobe accounts.
adobe_inc.: announced its agreement to acquire Semrush for $1.9 billion.
adobe_inc.: Warnock originally developed the PDF under a code name, "The Camelot Project", using PostScript technology to create a widely available digital document format, able to display text, raster graphics, vector graphics, and fonts.
adobe_inc.: This incorporates Sensei-powered features, e.g.
adobe_inc.: On June 1, Adobe launched Acrobat.com, a series of web applications geared for collaborative work.
adobe_inc.: They planned to streamline Adobe Sensei AI and machine learning structure for Nvidia GPUs.
adobe_inc.: Carousel was a new application for iPhone, iPad, and Mac that used Photoshop Lightroom technology to allow users to adjust and fine-tune images on all platforms.
adobe_inc.: Department of Justice over allegations that the company failed to clearly disclose cancellation fees associated with its subscription plans.
adobe_inc.: The purchase and advance made Adobe the first company in the history of Silicon Valley to become profitable in its first year.
adobe_inc.: Illustrator, which grew out of the firm's in-house font-development software, helped popularize PostScript-enabled laser printers.
adobe_inc.: By 1987, PostScript had become the industry-standard printer language with more than 400 third-party software programs and licensing agreements with 19 printer companies.
adobe_inc.: As part of the acquisition, the source code of PhoneGap was submitted to the Apache Foundation, where it became Apache Cordova.
adobe_inc.: In December 2012, Adobe opened a new 280,000-square-foot (26,000 m2) corporate campus in Lehi, Utah.
adobe_inc.: Adobe also has major development operations in the United States in Newton, New York City, Arden Hills, Lehi, Seattle, Austin and San Francisco.
adobe_inc.: Later that same year in October, Adobe acquired Nitobi Software, the maker of the mobile application development framework PhoneGap.
adobe_inc.: With FreeHand and Illustrator, Adobe controlled the only two products that competed in the professional illustration program market for Macintosh operating systems.
adobe_inc.: In July 2020, as the United States presidential elections approached, the software giant imposed a ban on the political ads features on its digital advertising sales platform.
adobe_inc.: A report by security researchers from Kaspersky Lab criticized Adobe for producing the products having top 10 security vulnerabilities.
adobe_inc.: Reception to the mandatory subscriptions for future Adobe software was mostly negative, despite some positive testimonies on the move from customers and Adobe's attraction of 500,000 Creative Cloud subscribers by the service's first year.
adobe_inc.: Its first notable acquisition in the decade was in 2002, when Adobe acquired Canadian company Accelio, also known as JetForm.
adobe_inc.: The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) intervened and forced Adobe to sell FreeHand back to Altsys, and also banned Adobe from buying back FreeHand or any similar program for the next 10 years (1994–2004).
adobe_inc.: In March 2026, Adobe agreed to pay $75 million to settle a lawsuit with the U.S.
adobe_inc.: In November 2011, Adobe announced that it would cease development of Flash for mobile devices following version 11.1.
adobe_inc.: The acquisition was completed in early December 2020.
adobe_inc.: In May 2003, Adobe purchased audio editing and multitrack recording software Cool Edit Pro from Syntrillium Software for $16.5 million, as well as a large loop library called "Loopology".
adobe_inc.: Because hackers acquired copies of the source code of Adobe proprietary products, they could find and exploit any potential weaknesses in its security, computer experts warned.
adobe_inc.: Department of Justice in 2024.
adobe_inc.: It offers a wide range of programs from web design tools, photo manipulation, and vector creation to video and audio editing, mobile app development, print layout and animation software.
adobe_inc.: On March 16, 2026, Adobe and NVIDIA announced a strategic partnership to deliver next-generation Adobe Firefly models and agentic workflows.
adobe_inc.: The collaboration spans AI model development, 3D product visualization, document intelligence, and cloud media workflows, with a joint go-to-market strategy targeting enterprise customers through Adobe's Firefly Foundry platform.
adobe_inc.: Steve Jobs attempted to buy the company for $5 million in 1982, but Warnock and Geschke refused.
adobe_inc.: On November 10, 2009, the company laid off a further 680 employees.
adobe_inc.: On September 15, 2009, Adobe Systems announced that it would acquire online marketing and web analytics company Omniture for $1.8 billion.
adobe_inc.: These included e-commerce services provider Magento Commerce from private equity firm Permira for $1.68 billion in June 2018, Marketo for $4.75 billion in 2018, Allegorithmic in 2019 for just under $160 million, and Workfront in December 2020 for $1.5 billion.
adobe_inc.: By the mid-1990s, Adobe would acquire Photoshop from John and Thomas Knoll, FrameMaker from Frame Technology Corporation, and After Effects and PageMaker from Aldus, as well as develop Adobe Premiere, later known as Premiere Pro, in-house, initially releasing it in 1991.
adobe_inc.: Adobe's Reader and Flash programs were listed on "The 10 most hated programs of all time" article by TechRadar.
adobe_inc.: In 2013, Adobe endured a major security breach.
adobe_inc.: Published on a server of a Russian-speaking hacker group, the "disclosure of encryption algorithms, other security schemes, and software vulnerabilities can be used to bypass protections for individual and corporate data" and may have opened the gateway to new generation zero-day attacks.
adobe_inc.: The suit alleged that:
adobe_inc.: Adobe announced a $20 billion acquisition of Figma, an Adobe XD competitor, in September 2022, its largest to date.
adobe_inc.: Its flagship products include Adobe Photoshop image editing software; Adobe Illustrator vector-based illustration software; Adobe Acrobat and the Portable Document Format (PDF); and a host of tools primarily for audio-visual content creation, editing, and publishing.
adobe_inc.: Security researcher Alex Holden, chief information security officer of Hold Security, characterized this Adobe breach, which affected Acrobat, ColdFusion and numerous other applications, as "one of the worst in US history".
adobe_inc.: The service was later renamed "Adobe Revel".
adobe_inc.: On August 19, 2021, Adobe announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Frame.io, a leading cloud-based video collaboration platform.
adobe_inc.: In 2011, a group of 5,000 FreeHand graphic designers convened under the banner Free FreeHand, and filed a civil antitrust complaint in the US District Court for the Northern District of California against Adobe.
adobe_inc.: By April 2008, Adobe released Adobe Media Player.
adobe_inc.: Adobe also announced that hackers stole parts of the source code of Photoshop, which according to commentators could allow programmers to copy its engineering techniques and would make it easier to pirate Adobe's expensive products.
adobe_inc.: Adobe then renamed Cool Edit Pro to Adobe Audition.
adobe_inc.: The creek is named because of the type of clay found there (Adobe being a Spanish word for Mudbrick).
adobe_inc.: The deal was completed on October 23, 2009.
adobe_inc.: On November 9, 2020, Adobe announced it would spend US$1.5 billion to acquire Workfront, a provider of marketing collaboration software.
adobe_inc.: Another security firm, Sophos, showed that Adobe used a weak encryption method permitting the recovery of a lot of information with very little effort.
adobe_inc.: Altsys was then bought by Macromedia, which released versions 5 to 11.
adobe_inc.: According to IT expert Simon Bain, Adobe has failed its customers and 'should hang their heads in shame'.
adobe_inc.: 2021 additionally saw Adobe add payment services to its e-commerce platforms in an attempt to compete with Shopify, accepting both credit cards and PayPal.
adobe_inc.: On April 27, Adobe discontinued the development and sales of its older HTML/web development software, GoLive, in favor of Dreamweaver.
adobe_inc.: Their investors urged them to work something out with Jobs, so they agreed to sell him shares worth 19 percent of the company.
adobe_inc.: On October 3, 2013, the company initially revealed that 2.9 million customers' sensitive and personal data was stolen in a security breach which included encrypted credit card information.
adobe_inc.: In 2015, Adobe acquired Fotolia, a stock content marketplace founded in 2005 by Thibaud Elziere, Oleg Tscheltzoff, and Patrick Chassany which operated in 23 countries.
adobe_inc.: Jobs paid a five-times multiple of their company's valuation at the time, plus a five-year license fee for PostScript, in advance.
adobe_inc.: The name of the company, Adobe, comes from Adobe Creek in Los Altos, California, a stream which ran behind Warnock's house.
adobe_inc.: Adobe's 2010 was marked by continuing arguments with Apple over the latter's non-support for Adobe Flash on its iPhone, iPad and other products.
adobe_inc.: Creative Suite 4, which includes Design, Web, Production Premium, and Master Collection came out in October 2008 in six configurations at prices from about US$1,700 to $2,500 or by individual application.
adobe_inc.: Then it chose to focus on developing specialized printing software and created the Adobe PostScript page description language.
adobe_inc.: Official website 
Business data for Adobe Inc.:
adobe_inc.: As of 2022, Adobe had more than 26,000 employees worldwide.
adobe_inc.: Around the same time as the development of Illustrator, Adobe entered the NASDAQ Composite index in August 1986.
adobe_inc.: At the time of the announcement to acquire Figma, Adobe's share over the creative software market and design-software market was almost a monopoly.
adobe_inc.: In late 2013 a 3.8 GB file stolen from Adobe and containing 152 million usernames, reversibly encrypted passwords and unencrypted password hints was posted on AnonNews.org.
adobe_inc.: According to the lawsuit, the company purportedly used small text disclosures, optional input fields, and complex web of links to obscure a concealed early termination fee.
adobe_inc.: In June 2024, after facing backlash for its changes to the terms of service, Adobe updated them to explicitly pledge it will not use customer data to train its artificial intelligence models.
adobe_inc.: Furthermore, there have been reports that with changing subscriptions it is possible to avoid paying this fee.
adobe_inc.: It was run as a stand-alone website until 2019, but has since been integrated into Adobe Stock.
adobe_inc.: Adobe added kanji printer products in 1988.
adobe_inc.: Former Apple CEO Steve Jobs claimed that Flash was not reliable or secure enough, while Adobe executives have argued that Apple wishes to maintain control over the iOS platform.
adobe_inc.: In April 2010, Steve Jobs published a post titled Thoughts on Flash where he outlined his thoughts on Flash and the rise of HTML5.
adobe_inc.: Adobe's software FTP server still contains a directory for FreeHand, but it is empty.
adobe_inc.: In July 2010, Adobe bought Day Software integrating its line of CQ Products: WCM, DAM, SOCO, and Mobile
In January 2011, Adobe acquired DemDex, Inc.
adobe_inc.: Adobe and Nvidia had cooperated for 10 years on GPU quickening.
adobe_inc.: Adobe offered its affected US customers a free membership in a credit monitoring service, but no similar arrangements have been made for non-US customers.
adobe_inc.: PostScript was the first international standard for computer printing as it included algorithms describing the letter-forms of many languages.
adobe_inc.: Federal Trade Commission and the U.S.
adobe_inc.: It was in 2003 that the company introduced the first version of Adobe Creative Suite, bundling its creative software into a single package.
adobe_inc.: FreeHand was direct competition to Adobe Illustrator, Adobe's flagship vector-graphics editor.
adobe_inc.: Following a fierce backlash Adobe decided to provide the software patch.
adobe_inc.: This fee reportedly amounted to fifty percent of the remaining value of annual contracts for users who chose to cancel early in the first year, resulting in significant penalties.
adobe_inc.: Hackers already used ColdFusion exploits to make off with usernames and encrypted passwords of PR Newswire's customers, which has been tied to the Adobe security breach.
adobe_inc.: Warnock and Geschke were also able to bolster the credibility of PostScript by connecting with a typesetting manufacturer.
adobe_inc.: The company did not make it clear if all the personal information was encrypted, such as email addresses and physical addresses, though data privacy laws in 44 states require this information to be encrypted.
adobe_inc.: Customers who tried to cancel services by contacting customer service faced obstacles, including dropped calls and multiple transfers between representatives; others continued to be billed by Adobe, under the mistaken belief that they had successfully ended their subscriptions.
adobe_inc.: Adobe had no response to the claims and the lawsuit was eventually settled.
adobe_inc.: On December 3, 2008, Adobe laid off 600 of its employees (8% of the worldwide staff) citing the weak economic environment.
adobe_inc.: with the intent of adding DemDex's audience-optimization software to its online marketing suite.
adobe_inc.: (  ə-DOH-bee), formerly Adobe Systems Incorporated, is an American multinational computer software company based in San Jose, California.
adobe_inc.: Adobe's corporate logo features a stylized "A" and was designed by graphic designer Marva Warnock, John Warnock's wife.
adobe_inc.: Adobe further spent its time from 2018 to 2023 acquiring more companies to boost both Creative Cloud and the Adobe Experience Cloud, a software suite which increased business.
adobe_inc.: In June 2009, Adobe further increased its prices in the UK by 10% in spite of weakening of the pound against the dollar, and UK users were not allowed to buy from the US store.
adobe_inc.: Adobe kept the PDF as a proprietary file format from its introduction until 2008, when the PDF became an ISO international standard under ISO number ISO 32000-1:2008, though the PDF file format was free for viewers since its introduction.
adobe_inc.: Regulatory scrutiny from the US and European Union began shortly after due to concerns that Adobe, already a major player in the design software market with XD, would have too much control if it also owned Figma.
adobe_inc.: The FreeHand community believes Adobe should release the product to an open-source community if it cannot update it internally.
adobe_inc.: In November 2025, Adobe Inc.
adobe_inc.: After stealing the customers' data, cyber-thieves also accessed Adobe's source code repository, likely in mid-August 2013.
adobe_inc.: Adobe's first products after PostScript were digital fonts which they released in a proprietary format called Type 1, worked on by Bill Paxton after he left Stanford.
adobe_inc.: In May 2014, it was revealed the four companies, Adobe, Apple, Google, and Intel had reached an agreement with the plaintiffs, 64,000 employees of the four companies, to pay a sum of $324.5 million to settle the suit.
adobe_inc.: LastPass, a password security firm, said that Adobe failed to use best practices for securing the passwords and has not salted them.
adobe_inc.: Vast portions of the source code for the company's software were stolen and posted online and over 150 million records of Adobe's customers were made readily available for download.
adobe_inc.: On March 13, 2026, the lawsuit was settled out of court for $150M.
adobe_inc.: With its acquisition of Aldus, in addition to gaining PageMaker and After Effects, Adobe gained control over the TIFF file format for images.
adobe_inc.: It also has major development operations in Noida and Bangalore in India.
adobe_inc.: In December 2011, Adobe announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire privately held Efficient Frontier.
adobe_inc.: Adobe MAX
Digital rights management (DRM)
List of acquisitions by Adobe
United States v.
adobe_inc.: When a data breach occurs in the US, penalties depend on the state where the victim resides, not where the company is based.
adobe_inc.: Carousel also allowed users to automatically sync, share and browse photos.
adobe_inc.: In December 2023, the two companies called off their merger, citing the regulatory challenges as a sign to both that the deal was not likely to be approved.
adobe_inc.: Warnock and Geschke considered various business options including a copy-service business and a turnkey system for office printing.
adobe_inc.: A class-action lawsuit alleging that the company suppressed employee compensation was filed against Adobe, and three other Silicon Valley–based companies in a California federal district court in 2013.
adobe_inc.: The company also expanded into digital marketing software and in 2021 was considered one of the top global leaders in Customer Experience Management (CXM).
adobe_inc.: Adobe responded the following day clarifying that it will not use user data to train generative AI or take users work as its own; however, it neglected to respond to the part in the TOS that gives Adobe the ability to view or use work that is contracted under an NDA.
adobe_inc.: They also used a ColdFusion exploit to breach Washington state court and expose up to 200,000 Social Security numbers.
