africa: In the Eritrean-Ethiopian Highlands, the kingdom of dʿmt rose c.
africa: ISBN 978-92-861-5237-5.
africa: The country with the largest white African population is South Africa.
africa: In the eastern Congo Basin, farmers, fishermen, and hunters (often Pygmies) built symbiotic relations.
africa: Africa and the Victorians: The official mind of imperialism (2 ed.).
africa: In the western Sahel the rise of settled communities occurred largely as a result of the domestication of millet and of sorghum, and cattle pastoralism began c.
africa: Arabic afrīqā (feminine noun) and ifrīqiyā, now usually pronounced afrīqiyā (feminine) 'Africa', from 'afara [' = 'ain, not 'alif] 'to be dusty' from 'afar 'dust, powder' and 'afir 'dried, dried up by the sun, withered' and 'affara 'to dry in the sun on hot sand' or 'to sprinkle with dust'.
africa: The Kushites ruled for a century and oversaw a revival in pyramid building, until they were driven out of Egypt by the Assyrians in 663 BC in reprisal for their expansion towards the Assyrian Empire.
africa: This count does not include Malta and Sicily, which are geologically part of the African continent.
africa: Michèle Fruyt in 1976 proposed linking the Latin word with africus "south wind", which would be of Umbrian origin and mean originally "rainy wind".
africa: The Boko Haram Insurgency primarily within Nigeria (with considerable fighting in Niger, Chad, and Cameroon as well) has killed around 350,000 people since 2009.
africa: Historian Christopher Ehret argued that this genetic distribution paralleled the spread of the Afrasian language family with the movement of people from the Horn of Africa into Egypt and added a new demic component to the existing population of Egypt 17,000 years ago.
africa: The New Kingdom conquered the Levant from the Canaanites, Mittani, Amorites, and Hittites, and extinguished Kerma, incorporating Nubia into the empire, and sending the Egyptian empire into its golden age.
africa: Ghana followed suit the next year (March 1957), becoming the first of the sub-Saharan colonies to be granted independence.
africa: In between, there is a convergence, where vegetation patterns such as sahel and steppe dominate.
africa: Scholars have attributed this to various factors including geography, climate, corruption, colonialism, the Cold War, and neocolonialism.
africa: In fact, the food security crisis of 2008, which took place following the global financial crisis, pushed 100 million people into food insecurity.
africa: Possibly Phoenician faraqa in the sense of 'colony, separation'.
africa: Most African conflicts have been reduced to low-intensity conflicts as of 2022.
africa: The Coptic Christians constitute a sizable minority in Egypt, and the Ethiopian Orthodox Church is the largest church in Ethiopia, with 36 million and 51 million adherents.
africa: Egypt has won the African Cup seven times, and a record-making three times in a row.
africa: Diseases such as yellow fever, sleeping sickness, yaws, and leprosy made Africa a very inhospitable place for Europeans.
africa: Towards the end of the 2nd century BC Mauretania fought alongside Numidia's Jugurtha against the Romans in the Jugurthine War after he had usurped the Numidian throne from a Roman ally.
africa: Oral tradition can be exoteric or esoteric.
africa: Peter Robertshaw considered its rulers (the Chwezi) to have been religious leaders who utilised networks of hill-top shrines to project authority.
africa: Around 75% of sub-Saharan Africa falls within 53 international river basin catchments that traverse multiple borders.
africa: The Nilo-Saharan languages consist of a group of several possibly related families, spoken by 30 million people between 100 languages.
africa: Speakers of Bantu languages (part of the Niger–Congo family) are the majority in southern, central and southeast Africa.
africa: Human encroachment, civil unrest and the introduction of non-native species threaten biodiversity in Africa.
africa: Another study found out that the majority of J-M267 (Eu10) chromosomes in the Maghreb are due to the recent gene flow caused by the Arab migrations to the Maghreb in the first millennium CE as both southern Qahtanite and northern Adnanite Arabs added to the heterogenous Maghrebi ethnic melting pot.
africa: Malone, Jacqui (1996).
africa: Since independence, African states have frequently been hampered by instability, corruption, violence, and authoritarianism.
africa: More than 85% of individuals in Africa use traditional medicine as an alternative to often expensive allopathic medical health care and costly pharmaceutical products.
africa: The threat to trade routes was mitigated by poor policing and African entrepreneurs (viewed as smugglers) who exploited the differing tax and legal schemes.
africa: In the Grasslands of northwestern Cameroon, Bantu-speaking agriculturalists started to gradually migrate south sometime between 5000 BC and 3000 BC.
africa: Across the continent many rulers attempted reforms and indigenous forms of 'modernisation', however these efforts were consistently undermined by European traders and missionaries as the tide of European encroachment rose.
africa: Kush persisted as a major regional power until, having been weakened from internal rebellion amid worsening climatic conditions, invasions by Aksum and the Noba caused their disintegration into Makuria, Alodia, and Nobatia around the 5th century AD.
africa: They came into contact with the Portuguese in the 15th century which saw the start of the Atlantic slave trade.
africa: In recent years, the continent has progressed in terms of state-of-the-art basketball facilities, which have been built in cities such as Cairo, Dakar, Johannesburg, Kigali, Luanda, and Rades.
africa: From the most northerly point, Ras ben Sakka in Tunisia (37°21' N), to the most southerly point, Cape Agulhas in South Africa (34°51'15" S), is a distance of approximately 8,000 km (5,000 mi).
africa: Between 9,000 and 5,000 BC, Niger–Congo speakers domesticated the oil palm and raffia palm.
africa: In the 11th century the Almoravids conquered the Maghreb and intervened in the Christian reconquest of Iberia.
africa: In the face of Mongol expansion, Mamluk generals seized power in Egypt and expanded into the Middle East.
africa: Following shifting trade routes north to the Zambezi and unclear circumstances, Great Zimbabwe entered into decline and was succeeded by the Mutapa Empire and Kingdom of Butua in the 15th century.
africa: According to the World Book Encyclopedia, Islam and Christianity are the two largest religions in Africa.
africa: The DRC also has more than 30% of the world's diamond reserves.
africa: In terms of number of languages, it is the largest language family in Africa and perhaps one of the largest in the world.
africa: Based on 2024 projections, Africa's population will exceed 3.8 billion people by 2100.
africa: Meanwhile, the 'Eastern Stream' travelled either the northern fringe of the rainforest or the Ubangi River eastwards, and reached just west of Lake Victoria around 500 BC.
africa: In recent times, the call for a much greater emphasis on the cultural dimension in all aspects of development has become increasingly vocal.
africa: ISBN 978-1-4381-2427-8.
africa: Namibia and Zimbabwe have appeared on multiple occasions at the Rugby World Cup, while South Africa is the most successful national team at the Rugby World Cup, having won the tournament on four occasions, in 1995, 2007, 2019, and 2023.
africa: The Ghana Empire (also called Wagadu) rose out of the Tichitt culture, growing wealthy following the introduction of the camel to the western Sahel, which revolutionised the trans-Saharan trade that linked their capital and Aoudaghost with Tahert and Sijilmasa in North Africa.
africa: Beginning around 4000 BC, the Tichitt culture in modern-day Mauritania and Mali is the oldest known complexly organised society in West Africa, while others included the Kintampo culture in modern-day Ghana, the Nok culture in modern-day Nigeria, and the Daima culture around Lake Chad.
africa: Ethiopia briefly consolidated its authority in the late-17th century, though the turn of the century saw fragmentation and gradually-increasing anarchy, which continued throughout the 18th century.
africa: African Dance.
africa: The history of Africa is long, complex, and varied, and has often been under-appreciated by the global historical community.
africa: One was the development of repeating rifles, which were easier and quicker to load than muskets.
africa: From around the 15th century, southern Madagascar became integrated into global trade; the Sakalava Empire rose to dominate west-coastal trade, accompanied by numerous other states, and the island saw several failed European colonial ventures.
africa: Maxim developed the maxim gun, the model of the modern-day machine gun.
africa: This grew into Ancient Carthage after gaining independence from Phoenicia in the 6th century BC, and they built an extensive trading empire with a strict mercantile network.
africa: Mind and memory shapes traditions, as events are condensed over time and crystallise into clichés.
africa: Almoravid capture of royal Aoudaghost led to Ghana's conversion to Islam in the 11th century, and climatic changes led to Ghana's conquest by its vassal Sosso in the 13th century.
africa: France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, and Yemen have parts of their territories located on African geographical soil, mostly in the form of islands.
africa: The African Union (AU) is a continental union consisting of 55 member states.
africa: The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has identified Africa as the continent most vulnerable to climate change.
africa: Africa is divided into a great number of ethnic cultures.
africa: Many of the Khoisan languages are endangered.
africa: South Africa and Zimbabwe have Test status, while Kenya is the leading non-test team and previously had One-Day International cricket (ODI) status (from 10 October 1997, until 30 January 2014).
africa: Meanwhile, in West Africa the Fula jihads, which had been gaining momentum throughout the 18th century, culminated in the establishment of the expansive Sokoto and Hamdullahi caliphates.
africa: The peoples of North Africa consist of three main indigenous groups: Berbers in the northwest, Egyptians in the northeast, and Nilo-Saharan-speaking peoples in the east.
africa: Rugby is popular in several southern African nations.
africa: The Ottoman regencies became more independent during the 18th century.
africa: In the 17th and 18th centuries, Lamu-Swahili cities rebelled against the Portuguese and allied the Omani Empire which supplanted Portuguese rule.
africa: In Sudan, although Arabic and Arab culture predominate, it is mostly inhabited by groups that originally spoke Nilo-Saharan, such as the Nubians, Fur, Masalit and Zaghawa, who, over the centuries, have variously intermixed with migrants from the Arabian peninsula.
africa: Their arrival coincided with the spread of iron metallurgy through Central Africa.
africa: In the Horn of Africa, Aksum lost control of the Red Sea, and its isolation from Christendom caused Ethiopian society to introspect and take inspiration from the Old Testament.
africa: Towards the end of the 3rd century AD, a wet period in the Sahel created areas for human habitation and exploitation that had not been habitable for the best part of a millennium.
africa: Malay and Indian ancestries are also important components in the group of people known in South Africa as Cape Coloureds (people with origins in two or more races and continents).
africa: Meanwhile, Luba expanded its number of tributaries, in some cases using its widely acknowledged prestige to intervene in succession disputes and distribute ritually-powerful royal regalia related to bulopwecode: lub promoted to code: lu  (sacred kingship), in other cases using conquest.
africa: Luo-speaking peoples migrated from the Upper Nile basin into modern-day Uganda, and a Biito dynasty replaced the Chwezi in Bunyoro-Kitara.
africa: Overall though, violence across Africa has greatly declined in the 21st century, with the end of civil wars in Angola, Sierra Leone, and Algeria in 2002, Liberia in 2003, and Sudan and Burundi in 2005.
africa: Raw materials were needed for European factories, and free trade was championed to prevent Africans from regulating their economies.
africa: Many African countries became highly dependent on foreign aid.
africa: Mpororo rose and fragmented during the 18th century, while Buganda rapidly expanded at the expense of Bunyoro to become the major power in the region.
africa: The 16th and 17th centuries also saw Oromo invasions into the Horn, weakening Ethiopia further and causing the collapse of Adal, while Ajuran on the east coast also disintegrated.
africa: The Semitic Phoenicians (who founded Carthage) and Hyksos, the Indo-Iranian Alans, the Indo-European Greeks, Romans, and Vandals settled in North Africa as well.
africa: Small communities of Afro-Asiatic-speaking Beja nomads can also be found in Egypt and Sudan.
africa: ISBN 978-0-333-59957-0.
africa: Under Roman rule, Carthage became the capital of the province then named Africa Proconsularis, following the Roman victory over the Carthaginians in the Third Punic War in 146 BC, which also included the coastal part of modern Libya.
africa: The Tunjur empire's collapse in the central Sudan saw the rise of the Bagirmi, Wadai, and Darfur sultanates, which frequently raided the populations to their south for slaves.
africa: They are mainly spoken in Southern Africa by approximately 400,000 people.
africa: 1.15) asserted that it was named for Epher, grandson of Abraham according to Gen.
africa: Pygmies are thought to have inhabited Central Africa for many millennia, splitting into eastern and western groups around 5,000 BP.
africa: The conquest of Achaemenid Egypt by Alexander the Great in 332 BC marked the beginning of Hellenistic rule and the installation of the Macedonian Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt.
africa: It contains 54 fully recognised sovereign states, eight cities and islands that are part of non-African states, and two de facto independent states with limited or no recognition.
africa: European colonisation also brought sizable groups of Asians, particularly from the Indian subcontinent, to British colonies.
africa: The same word may be found in the name of the Banu Ifran from Algeria and Tripolitania, a Berber tribe originally from Yafran (also known as Ifrane) in northwestern Libya, as well as the city of Ifrane in Morocco.
africa: According to the Romans, Africa lies to the west of Egypt, while "Asia" was used to refer to Anatolia and lands to the east.
africa: Eighty-one percent of the sub-Saharan African population was living on less than $2.50 (PPP) per day in 2005, compared with 86% for India.
africa: In Southern Africa the Mfecane propelled large long-distance migrations that caused widespread disruption across the vast region, while several Boer republics were founded.
africa: The Bantu-speaking peoples from the Sahel progressively expanded over most of sub-Saharan Africa.
africa: North of the Zambezi, Maravi around Lake Malawi expanded in the 17th century, but the collapse of its succession system in the 18th century precipitated its disintegration.
africa: In Egypt Muhammad Ali led a national movement to seize power from Ottoman suzerainty, instituting sweeping reforms and greatly strengthening Egyptian power by militaristic expansion.
africa: In West Africa, a wet phase ushered in an expanding rainforest and wooded savanna from Senegal to Cameroon.
africa: 1300 as Great Zimbabwe, with its monumental dry-stone walls, rose to become the region's main political and economic centre.
africa: "African agriculture is at the crossroads; we have come to the end of a century of policies that favoured Africa's export of raw materials and importation of food.
africa: A small number of Africans are Hindu, Buddhist, Confucianist, Baháʼí, or Jewish.
africa: In the 1st century AD, the Kingdom of Aksum rose from a city-state to rule much of the northern Ethiopian-Eritrean Highlands and the Red Sea port of Adulis.
africa: In the countries of sub-Saharan Africa most affected, AIDS has raised death rates and lowered life expectancy among adults between the ages of 20 and 49 by about twenty years.
africa: There is also a minority of people in Africa who are irreligious.
africa: Arabic, Portuguese, Afrikaans and Spanish are examples of languages that trace their origin to outside of Africa, and that are used by millions of Africans today, both in the public and private spheres.
africa: Extensive human rights abuses still occur in several parts of Africa, often under the oversight of the state.
africa: The Sahara served as a trans-regional passageway and place of dwelling for people in Africa during various humid phases and periods throughout the history of Africa.
africa: For example, African customs were discouraged, and African languages were prohibited in mission schools, while colonialists such as Leopold II of Belgium attempted to "civilize" Africans by discouraging polygamy and witchcraft.
africa: This particular constraint can also be converted into an opportunity if the potential for trans-boundary cooperation is harnessed in the development of the area's water resources.
africa: JSTOR 1343467.
africa: Africa's population has rapidly increased over the last 40 years, and is consequently relatively young.
africa: University of Illinois Press.
africa: The African Union has a parliamentary government, known as the African Union Government, consisting of legislative, judicial and executive organs.
africa: In the 8th century the Berber Revolt rocked the Caliphate and Berber dynasties took control over the Maghreb, while the Tulunids briefly controlled Egypt.
africa: It is led by the African Union President and Head of State, who is also the President of the Pan-African Parliament.
africa: The Second Congo War, which involved 9 countries and several insurgent groups, ended in 2003.
africa: Italian is spoken by some in former Italian colonies in Africa.
africa: Text taken from Global Forest Resources Assessment 2025​, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
africa: Between 1515 and 1800, 8 million Africans were exported in the Atlantic slave trade.
africa: The late-17th century saw Kongo fragment between royal houses as several vassals broke away; by the time of Kongo's restoration in 1709, it had ceased being the dominant regional power.
africa: The number of African basketball players who drafted into the U.S.
africa: S2CID 161311164.
africa: Upon independence an overwhelming majority of Africans lived in extreme poverty.
africa: The climate of Africa ranges from tropical to subarctic on its highest peaks.
africa: A Harvard University study led by professor Calestous Juma showed that Africa could feed itself by making the transition from importer to self-sufficiency.
africa: While traditional religion predominated among Berbers, some people converted to Christianity.
africa: The List of World Heritage in Danger includes 15 African sites.
africa: Despite intensive research, the cause of the migrations, and that of the directions taken, is still unclear, however there is consensus that there were multiple dispersal events.
africa: On the Swahili coast the Swahili city-states thrived off of the Indian Ocean trade and gradually Islamized, giving rise to the Kilwa Sultanate from the 10th century.
africa: German is spoken in Namibia, as it was a former German protectorate.
africa: The continent is surrounded by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, the Arabian plate and the Gulf of Aqaba to the northeast, the Indian Ocean to the southeast and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.
africa: OL 17989466M.
africa: The last debt crisis in 2005 was resolved with help from the heavily indebted poor countries scheme (HIPC).
africa: Massey, in 1881, stated that Africa is derived from the Egyptian af-rui-ka, meaning "to turn toward the opening of the Ka".
africa: From 1995 to 2005, Africa's rate of economic growth increased, averaging 5% in 2005.
africa: In July 2004, the African Union's Pan-African Parliament (PAP) was relocated to Midrand, in South Africa, but the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights remained in Addis Ababa.
africa: Robinson, Ronald; Gallagher, John; Denny, Alice (1978) [1961].
africa: The later Muslim region of Ifriqiya, following its conquest of the Byzantine (Eastern Roman) Empire's Exarchatus Africae, also preserved a form of the name.
africa: Africa, particularly Eastern Africa, is widely accepted to be the place of origin of humans and the Hominidae clade, also known as the great apes.
africa: The height of the Old Kingdom saw the construction of many great pyramids, though under the 6th dynasty power gradually decentralised to the nomarchs, culminating in the disintegration of the kingdom, exacerbated by drought and famine.
africa: Around the turn of the millennium, both came under direct Roman rule.
africa: Various conflicts between various insurgent groups and governments continue.
africa: The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) has 70% of the world's coltan, a mineral used in the production of tantalum capacitors for electronic devices such as cell phones.
africa: Faced with increasingly frequent and severe violence, military rule was widely accepted by the population of many countries as means to maintain order, and during the 1970s and 1980s a majority of African countries were controlled by military dictatorships.
africa: Africa is now at risk of being in debt once again, particularly in sub-Saharan African countries.
africa: Index of Africa-related articles
Outline of Africa
africa: This contributed to the outbreak of the first and second Congo Wars, which were the most devastating military conflicts in modern Africa, with up to 5.5 million deaths, making it by far the deadliest conflict in modern African history and one of the costliest wars in human history.
africa: In their view, identifying a range of African populations may still remain an issue “since the idea of ‘African’ still gets stereotyped or restricted.
africa: A person becomes AU President by being elected to the PAP, and subsequently gaining majority support in the PAP.
africa: Africa is considered by most paleoanthropologists to be the oldest inhabited territory on Earth, with the Human species originating from the continent.
africa: Dispersal from the Great Lakes region occurred in two more streams.
africa: In numerous countries, English and French (see African French) are used for communication in the public sphere such as government, commerce, education and the media.
africa: Rodolfo Fattovich equated it to the Gash Group in the Sudanese-Eritrean lowlands, and some scholars have hypothesised modern-day Somalia, while Kenneth Kitchen and Felix Chami locate it on Zanzibar Island.
africa: Although the continent is home to about 15.2 percent of the world's population, more than two-thirds of the total infected worldwide—some 35 million people—were Africans, of whom 15 million have already died.
africa: According to Encyclopædia Britannica, 45% of the population are Christians, 40% are Muslims, and 10% follow traditional religions.
africa: A number of institutional and legal frameworks for transboundary cooperation exist, such as the Zambezi River Authority, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Protocol, Volta River Authority and the Nile Basin Commission.
africa: Africa is the world's second-largest and second-most populous continent after Asia.
africa: In reference to the van de Loosdrecht et al.
africa: Author Chika Okeke-Agulu states that "the racist infrastructure of British imperial enterprise forced upon the political and cultural guardians of empire a denial and suppression of an emergent sovereign Africa and modernist art".
africa: Since 2003, there has been an ongoing conflict in Darfur (Sudan), which peaked in intensity from 2003 to 2005 with notable spikes in violence in 2007 and 2013–15, killing around 300,000 people total.
africa: Significant habitat destruction, increases in human population and poaching are reducing Africa's biological diversity and arable land.
africa: Despite this low concentration of wealth, the African economy is home to many of the world's fastest-growing economies.
africa: This decline in violence coincided with many countries abandoning communist-style command economies and opening up for market reforms, which over the course of the 1990s and 2000s promoted the establishment of permanent, peaceful trade between neighbouring countries (see Capitalist peace).
africa: A New Scramble For Africa?: Imperialism, Investment and Development.
africa: Fifty-four African countries have football teams in the Confederation of African Football.
africa: As an example, during the Angolan Civil War, the Soviet and Cuban aligned MPLA and the American aligned UNITA received the vast majority of their military and political support from these countries.
africa: Internal struggles, drought, famine, and invasions by a confederation of seafaring peoples contributed to the New Kingdom's collapse in 1069 BC.
africa: The deforestation rate of 4.08 million hectares in 2000–2015 declined to 3.45 million ha per year in 2015–2025.
africa: Throughout the 16th and 17th centuries, Bunyoro raided states to the south such as Nkore and Rwanda.
africa: Throughout this, Bantu speakers displaced, replaced, or intermarried with and absorbed hunter-gatherer and agricultural groups.
africa: There was a major famine in Ethiopia between 1983 and 1985, killing up to 1.2 million people, which most historians attribute primarily to the forced relocation of farmworkers and seizure of grain by the communist Derg government, further exacerbated by the civil war.
africa: During the 13th century, hegemony in the Horn was contested by the Christian Zagwe, the Muslims of Shewa, and the traditionalist Damot; the Solomonic dynasty overthrew the Zagwe to found the Ethiopian Empire, while Shewa was replaced by Ifat.
africa: The union was formed, with Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, as its headquarters, on 26 June 2001.
africa: For 400 years, European nations had mainly limited their involvement to trading stations on the African coast, with few daring to venture inland.
africa: They later entered a severe decline following civil war and Arab migrations to the Sudan and had disintegrated by the 15th century, giving rise to the Funj Sultanate.
africa: Africa has over 3,000 protected areas, with 198 marine protected areas, 50 biosphere reserves, and 80 wetlands reserves.
africa: Africa is the most multilingual continent in the world, and it is not rare for individuals to fluently speak not only multiple African languages, but one or more European ones as well.
africa: However, in formal surveys or census, most people will identify with major religions that came from outside the continent, mainly through colonisation.
africa: Independence movements in Africa gained momentum following World War II, which left the major European powers weakened.
africa: Over the next decade, waves of decolonisation took place across the continent, culminating in the 1960 Year of Africa and the establishment of the Organisation of African Unity in 1963.
africa: Between 1990 and 2018, though, the continent as a whole has trended towards more democratic governance.
africa: The Asante Empire was established in present-day Ghana.
africa: In Mauritania, there is a small but near-extinct Berber community in the north and Niger–Congo-speaking peoples in the south, though in both regions Arabic and Arab culture predominates.
africa: According to authors Douglas Fraser and Herbert M.
africa: Some examples are Senegalese wrestling, Dambe, Nguni stick-fighting, and Savika.
africa: As of 2025, Africa contains 54 sovereign countries.
africa: Improved stability and economic reforms have led to a great increase in foreign investment into many African nations, mainly from China, which further spurred economic growth.
africa: Morocco, at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar was the first African nation to reach the semi-finals of the FIFA Men's World Cup.
africa: Both were fought primarily on ethnic and religious lines.
africa: (2018), only Botswana and Mauritius have been consistently democratic for the entirety of their post-colonial history.
africa: Religious beliefs and statistics on religious affiliation are difficult to come by since they are often a sensitive topic for governments with mixed religious populations.
africa: Egypt briefly regained independence from the Achaemenids under the 28th dynasty from 404 to 343 BC.
africa: Sub-Saharan Africa alone accounted for an estimated 69 percent of all people living with HIV and 70 percent of all AIDS deaths in 2011.
africa: In recent years, China has built increasingly stronger ties with African nations and is Africa's largest trading partner.
africa: Soninke tradition holds that the final founding of Wagadu occurred after Dinga did a deal with Bida, a serpent deity who was guarding a well, to sacrifice one maiden a year in exchange for assurance regarding plenty of rainfall and gold supply.
africa: The Industrial Revolution in Europe produced several technological innovations which assisted them in overcoming this 400-year pattern.
africa: doi:10.1086/448326.
africa: The Assyrians installed a puppet dynasty that later gained independence and once more unified Egypt, until it was conquered by the Achaemenid Empire in 525 BC.
africa: North Africa experienced comparable growth rates.
africa: Nilo-Saharan languages are spoken by ethnic groups in Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Nigeria, Sudan, South Sudan, Uganda, and northern Tanzania.
africa: "Victorians and Africans: The Genealogy of the Myth of the Dark Continent" (PDF).
africa: Traditional leaders were incorporated into the colonial regimes as a form of indirect rule to extract human and natural resources and curb organized resistance.
africa: As early as 11,000 years ago, Sub-Saharan West Africans, bearing macrohaplogroup L (e.g., L1b1a11, L1b1a6a, L1b1a8, L1b1a9a1, L2a1k, L3d1b1a), may have migrated through North Africa and into Europe, mostly into southern Europe (e.g., Iberia).
africa: Two civil wars in Sudan, the first lasting from 1955 to 1972 and the second from 1983 to 2005, collectively killed around 3 million.
africa: In the central Sahara, Mandinka or Mande groups are most significant.
africa: African nations cooperate through the establishment of the African Union, which is headquartered in Addis Ababa.
africa: AIDS in post-colonial Africa is a prevalent issue.
africa: Pygmies are the pre-Bantu indigenous peoples of central Africa.
africa: In 1854, the discovery of quinine and other medical innovations helped to make conquest and colonisation in Africa possible.
africa: Welsh-Asante, Kariamu (2009).
africa: During the 20th century, small but economically important communities of Lebanese have also developed in the larger coastal cities of West and East Africa, respectively.
africa: Large numbers of Berber and Coptic people willingly converted to Islam, and followers of Abrahamic religions ('People of the Book') were protected, though followers of Berber traditional religion were violently oppressed.
africa: The domestication of cattle in Africa preceded agriculture and seems to have existed alongside hunter-gatherer cultures.
africa: Steppin' on the Blues: the Visible Rhythms of African American Dance.
africa: From the late-19th century to early 20th century, driven by the Second Industrial Revolution, most of Africa was rapidly conquered and colonised by European nations, save for Ethiopia and Liberia.
africa: Most present states emerged from a process of decolonisation following World War II, and established the Organisation of African Unity in 1963, the predecessor to the African Union.
africa: Islamised Beja invaded the Ethiopian Highlands, forcing Aksum to migrate south, where, according to tradition, Aksum's expansion was met by a Jewish or traditionalist queen who destroyed the state c.
africa: In Southern Africa, an early kingdom was Mapungubwe, which collapsed c.
africa: Both the Soviet Union and the United States offered considerable incentives to African political and military leaders who aligned themselves with the superpowers' foreign policy.
africa: South Africa hosted the 2010 World Cup tournament, becoming the first African country to do so.
africa: After Christian gains in Iberia in the 13th century, the Almohads disintegrated into the Marinids, Zayyanids, and Hafsids in modern-day Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia respectively.
africa: However, Africa is also heavily affected by a wide range of environmental issues, including desertification, deforestation, water scarcity, and pollution.
africa: In 1550 BC, the 18th dynasty expelled the Hyksos, and established the New Kingdom of Egypt.
africa: Decolonization during the 1960s and 1970s often resulted in the mass emigration of white settlers—especially from Algeria and Morocco (1.6 million pieds-noirs in North Africa), Kenya, Congo, Rhodesia, Mozambique and Angola.
africa: The Niger–Congo-speaking Yoruba, Igbo, Fulani, Akan, and Wolof ethnic groups are the largest and most influential.
africa: Where they differ, provisos are clearly indicated.
africa: A Lunda state formed in the Nkalany Valley (estimates range from c.
africa: Modern-day Somalia was inhabited by nomadic pastoralists, and along the Horn's coast there were many ancient Somali city-states that thrived off of the wider Red Sea trade, and enjoyed a lucrative monopoly on cinnamon from Ancient India due to their freedom from Roman interference.
africa: These contextual factors forged the Scramble for Africa; during the late-19th and early-20th centuries the European powers partitioned and conquered almost all of Africa despite fierce resistance (only Ethiopia and Liberia remained independent).
africa: David Schoenbrun, Christopher Ehret, Steven A.
africa: Between 2000 and 2014, annual GDP growth in sub-Saharan Africa averaged 5.02%, doubling its total GDP from $811 billion to $1.63 trillion (constant 2015 USD).
africa: These entrenched environmental concerns are expected to worsen as climate change impacts Africa.
africa: Several scholars consider there to have been other contemporaneous states, and dʿmt's collapse in the mid-1st century BC saw the region inhabited by small polities.
africa: Its northern half is primarily desert, or arid, while its central and southern areas contain both savanna plains and dense jungle (rainforest) regions.
africa: Critical Inquiry.
africa: The Latin suffix -ica can sometimes be used to denote a land (e.g., in Celtica from Celtae, as used by Julius Caesar).
africa: The Eu10 chromosome pool in the Maghreb is derived not only from early Neolithic dispersions from Western Asia but to a much greater extent from recent expansions of Arab tribes from the Arabian Peninsula.
africa: EIB Group Sustainability Report 2021.
africa: NBA has experienced growth in the 2010s.
africa: The top clubs in each African football league play the CAF Champions League, while lower-ranked clubs compete in CAF Confederation Cup.
africa: Rhodesia unilaterally declared independence from the United Kingdom in 1965, under the white minority government of Ian Smith, but was not internationally recognised as an independent state (as Zimbabwe) until 1980, when black nationalists gained power after a bitter guerrilla war.
africa: Furthermore, the life expectancy in many parts of Africa has declined, largely as a result of the HIV/AIDS epidemic with life-expectancy in some countries reaching as low as thirty-four years.
africa: It is speculated that by 6,000 BC, cattle were domesticated in North Africa.
africa: European states kept these weapons largely among themselves by refusing to sell these weapons to African leaders.
africa: Shillington, Kevin (2005).
africa: In 1885, Hiram S.
africa: Portugal's overseas presence in sub-Saharan Africa (most notably in Angola, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau, and São Tomé and Príncipe) lasted from the 16th century to 1975, after the Estado Novo regime was overthrown in a military coup in Lisbon.
africa: 1.9 million–600,000 years BP) have been discovered.
africa: In 1956, Tunisia and Morocco won their independence from France.
africa: Countries where major human rights violations have been reported in recent times include the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Sudan, Zimbabwe, and Ivory Coast.
africa: The peoples of West Africa primarily speak Niger–Congo languages, belonging mostly to its non-Bantu branches, though some Nilo-Saharan and Afro-Asiatic speaking groups are also found.
africa: Some aspects of traditional African cultures have become less practised in recent years as a result of neglect and suppression by colonial and post-colonial regimes.
africa: Fossil remains of several species of early apelike humans thought to have evolved into modern humans, such as Australopithecus afarensis radiometrically dated to approximately 3.9–3.0 million years BP, Paranthropus boisei (c.
africa: In African societies, the historical process is largely a communal one, with eyewitness accounts, hearsay, reminiscences, and occasionally visions, dreams, and hallucinations crafted into narrative oral traditions which are performed and transmitted through generations.
africa: The Story of Africa from BBC World Service
"Africa" .
africa: This has been exacerbated by administrative problems, inadequate personnel and funding problems.
africa: Some of it is attributed to unsuccessful economic liberalisation programmes spearheaded by foreign companies and governments, but other studies have cited bad domestic government policies more than external factors.
africa: The coastline is 26,000 km (16,000 mi) long, and the absence of deep indentations of the shore is illustrated by the fact that Europe, which covers only 10,400,000 km2 (4,000,000 sq mi) – about a third of the surface of Africa – has a coastline of 32,000 km (20,000 mi).
africa: The Berber-speaking Tuareg and other often-nomadic peoples are the principal inhabitants of the Saharan interior of North Africa.
africa: In the northern Great Lakes, the Empire of Kitara rose around the 11th century, famed for its oral traditions.
africa: Over the following centuries, the kingdoms of Bunyoro-Kitara, Buganda, and Rwanda struggled for hegemony among others.
africa: During the mid-20th century, anthropologists discovered many fossils and evidence of human occupation perhaps as early as seven million years ago ("Before Present"; BP).
africa: Around 2055 BC, the 11th dynasty, based in Thebes, conquered the others to form the Middle Kingdom of Egypt, and the 12th dynasty expanded into Lower Nubia at the expense of Kerma.
africa: Traditional sports were strictly marginalised during the colonial era, and many are dying or have gone extinct under the pressure of modernisation, however lots remain popular despite not having formal governmental recognition or support.
africa: Around 1700 BC, the Middle Kingdom fractured in two, and the Hyksos (a militaristic people from Palestine) invaded and conquered Lower Egypt, while Kerma coordinated invasions deep into Egypt to reach its greatest extent.
africa: However, the warming and drying climate meant that by 5,000 BC, the Sahara region was becoming increasingly dry and hostile.
africa: The continent is believed to hold 90% of the world's cobalt, 90% of its platinum, 50% of its gold, 98% of its chromium, 70% of its tantalite, 64% of its manganese and one-third of its uranium.
africa: Accordingly, as lineages grew, authority was opportunistically absorbed or incorporated by force.
africa: On the other hand, Mhoze Chikowero believes that Africans deployed music, dance, spirituality, and other performative cultures to (re)assert themselves as active agents and indigenous intellectuals, to unmake their colonial marginalisation and reshape their own destinies.
africa: It is also home to a variety of "jungle" animals including snakes and primates and aquatic life such as crocodiles and amphibians.
africa: Also during the 17th century, in the textile-producing northeast, the Boma, Yaka, and possibly the Kuba and Pende kingdoms broke away from Mwene Muji.
africa: Since most of the plants grew in the forest, the Niger–Congo speakers invented polished stone axes for clearing forest.
africa: The Ptolemaics lost their holdings outside of Africa to the Seleucids in the Syrian Wars, expanded into Cyrenaica, and briefly occupied part of Kush in the 3rd century BC.
africa: By most estimates, well over a thousand languages (UNESCO has estimated around two thousand) are spoken in Africa.
africa: Some sources claim that approximately 90% of the original, virgin forests in West Africa have been destroyed.
africa: In the forest regions of West Africa, various kingdoms and empires flourished, such as the Yoruba empires of Ife and Oyo, the Igbo Kingdom of Nri, the Edo Kingdom of Benin (famous for its art), the Dagomba Kingdom of Dagbon, and the Akan kingdoms of Bonoman and Adanse.
africa: Over the course of the late-16th and 17th centuries, the Portuguese sought to conquer Ndongo (allied to Matamba) in the Angolan Wars; despite fierce resistance from Queen Nzinga, and brief occupation of Luanda by the Dutch (allied to Kongo), Portugal controlled most of Ndongo by the 1670s.
africa: Around the turn of the millennium, Bantu speakers reached central modern-day Tanzania and near Dar es Salaam, before rapidly moving southwards along the coast to reach modern-day Kwazulu Natal in South Africa around the 3rd century AD.
africa: Artillery was being used increasingly.
africa: Large Indian communities are found in South Africa, and smaller ones are present in Kenya, Tanzania, and some other southern and southeast African countries.
africa: The countries in this table are categorised according to the scheme for geographic subregions used by the United Nations, and data included are per sources in cross-referenced articles.
africa: At about 30.3 million km2 (11.7 million square miles) including adjacent islands, it covers around 20% of Earth's land area and 6% of its total surface area.
africa: Based on large tumuli scattered across West Africa dating to this period, several scholars have speculated that there were further simultaneous and preceding states relative to Wagadu.
africa: Among these proprieties, 54 are cultural sites, 39 are natural sites and 5 are mixed sites.
africa: The name had usually been connected with the Phoenician word ʿafar meaning "dust", but a 1981 hypothesis has asserted that it stems from the Berber word ifri (plural ifran) meaning "cave", in reference to cave dwellers.
africa: In the early-16th century, the Ottoman Empire rapidly conquered North Africa (save for Morocco, now under Saadi rule) to counter Spanish expansionism.
africa: Guinea is the world's largest exporter of bauxite.
africa: Islam is most prevalent in Northern Africa, and is the state religion of many North African countries, such as Algeria, where 99% of the population practices Islam.
africa: Prior to the decolonisation movements of the post-World War II era, Europeans were represented in every part of Africa.
africa: Sub-Saharan Africa is the least successful region of the world in reducing poverty ($1.25 per day); some 50% of the population living in poverty in 1981 (200 million people), a figure that rose to 58% in 1996 before dropping to 50% in 2005 (380 million people).
africa: The 'Western Stream' likely followed the coast and the major rivers of the Congo system southwards to reach the southern fringe of the Congolian Rainforest around 500 BC (some may have used the sea to circumvent the rainforest).
africa: From 3500 BC, nomes (ruled by nomarchs) coalesced to form the kingdoms of Lower Egypt and Upper Egypt in northeast Africa.
africa: Africa's largest country is Algeria, and its smallest country is Seychelles, an archipelago off the east coast.
africa: The total number of people in Africa increased from 229 million in 1950 to 630 million in 1990.
africa: However, few of them have been able to sustain democratic governments on a permanent basis—per the criteria laid out by Lührmann et al.
africa: While there, Bantu speakers adopted iron metallurgy from Cushitic speakers already present, and coexisted with them.
africa: With limited financial resources or access to global markets, relatively stable countries such as Kenya still experienced only very slow economic development.
africa: Imperial rule by Europeans continued until after the conclusion of World War II, when almost all remaining colonial territories gradually obtained formal independence.
africa: In addition, Africa has the largest number of megafauna species, as it was least affected by the extinction of the Pleistocene megafauna.
africa: Around 1500, severe droughts and famine destabilised the region, occurring again during the early-17th and 18th centuries.
africa: Acquiring African colonies would show rivals that a nation was powerful and significant.
africa: Mutapa was briefly vassalised by the Portuguese in the 17th century, the latter-half of which saw widespread famine and disease, until Changamire Dombo revolted in the 1680s, conquered Butua to found the Rozvi Empire, and expelled all Portuguese from the Zimbabwean Plateau.
africa: The Khoisan languages form a group of three unrelated families and two isolates and number about fifty in total.
africa: The smallest nation on the continental mainland is The Gambia.
africa: As Europeans came to understand the real extent of the continent, the idea of "Africa" expanded with their knowledge.
africa: 12 (1): 166–203.
africa: This article incorporates text from a free content work.
africa: Territorial disputes between nations and rebellions by groups seeking independence were also common in independent African states.
africa: The continent suffered from the lack of infrastructural or industrial development under colonial rule, along with political instability.
africa: Encyclopædia Britannica.
africa: 1935 ===
By the turn of the 19th century, many of Africa's economic and political structures were unstable and brittle as a result of long-term effects of the slave trade.
africa: The Niger-Congo language family covers much of sub-Saharan Africa.
africa: In the late-18th century, the interplay of pre-existing trends of political centralization with the effects of international trade, environmental instability, and European colonisation set the Mfecane ("Crushing") in motion, as various African states were founded.
africa: After the evolution of Homo sapiens approximately 350,000 to 260,000 years BP in Africa, the continent was mainly populated by groups of hunter-gatherers.
africa: Africa would be, for the Egyptians, "the birthplace".
africa: In August 2008, the World Bank announced revised global poverty estimates based on a new international poverty line of $1.25 per day (versus the previous measure of $1.00).
africa: The union was officially established on 9 July 2002 as a successor to the Organisation of African Unity (OAU).
africa: The three countries jointly hosted the 2003 Cricket World Cup.
africa: African germs took numerous European lives and deterred permanent settlements.
africa: Text taken from World Food and Agriculture – Statistical Yearbook 2025​, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
africa: Abiola Irele and Simon Gikandi comment that the current identity of African literature had its genesis in the "traumatic encounter between Africa and Europe".
africa: Most African countries have experienced several coups or periods of military dictatorship.
africa: Weakened by internal conflict, in 1591 Gao was conquered by Morocco, and the political vacuum came to be filled by the Segou Empire and several other states.
africa: Poverty, illiteracy, malnutrition, inadequate water supply and sanitation, and poor health affect a large proportion of the people who reside on the African continent.
africa: However, the Tigray War from 2020 to 2022 killed an estimated 300,000–500,000 people, primarily due to famine.
africa: This increase in number of babies born in Africa compared to the rest of the world is expected to reach approximately 37% in the year 2050; while in 1990 sub-Saharan Africa accounted for only 16% of the world's births.
africa: 2.3–1.4 million years BP) and Homo ergaster (c.
africa: Licensed under CC BY 4.0 (license statement/permission).
africa: Large swathes of indigenous peoples regained self-governance in Masuna and its numerous successor polities in the Maghreb, including the kingdoms of Ouarsenis, Aurès, and Altava.
africa: A History of Sub-Saharan Africa.
africa: The vast majority of African states are republics that operate under some form of the presidential system of rule.
africa: As of 2021, the population of Africa is estimated at 1,394 million.
africa: There are four major groups indigenous to Africa:
africa: The earliest hominids and their ancestors have been dated to around 7 million years ago, and Homo sapiens (modern human) are believed to have originated in Africa 350,000 to 260,000 years ago.
africa: According to a recent study, the Arab migrations to the Maghreb was mainly a demographic process that heavily implied gene flow and remodelled the genetic structure of the Maghreb region in North Africa, rather than a mere cultural replacement as claimed by older studies.
africa: Genetic evidence has identified the Horn of Africa to be the source of a genetic marker "M35/215" Y-chromosome lineage for a significant population component which moved north from that region into Egypt and the Levant.
africa: Colonial borders were drawn unilaterally by the Europeans, often cutting across bonds of kinship, language, culture, and established routes, and sometimes incorporating groups who previously had little in common.
africa: Separated from Europe by the Mediterranean Sea, it is joined to Asia at its northeast extremity by the Isthmus of Suez (transected by the Suez Canal), 163 km (101 mi) wide.
africa: However, additional efforts are required to further develop political will, as well as the financial capacities and institutional frameworks needed for win-win multilateral cooperative actions and optimal solutions for all riparians.
africa: As the growth in Africa has been driven mainly by services and not manufacturing or agriculture, it has been growth without jobs and without reduction in poverty levels.
africa: The 15th century saw the crumbling of the Mali Empire, with the dominant power in the region becoming the Songhai Empire centered on Gao.
africa: Africa is the least wealthy inhabited continent per capita and second-least wealthy by total wealth, ahead of Oceania.
africa: The centre of the Luba Empire is yet to undergo archaeological research, meaning knowledge about its rise is limited; its foundation is typically dated to the 14th/15th centuries, though scholarly estimates range from the 8th to 17th centuries.
africa: The Ka is the energetic double of every person and the "opening of the Ka" refers to a womb or birthplace.
africa: Africa is highly biodiverse; it is the continent with the largest number of megafauna species, as it was least affected by the extinction of the Pleistocene megafauna.
africa: Only a handful of African countries succeeded in obtaining rapid economic growth prior to 1990.
africa: Cold War conflicts between the United States and the Soviet Union also contributed to instability.
africa: Following the end of colonialism, nearly all African countries adopted official languages that originated outside the continent, although several countries also granted legal recognition to indigenous languages (such as Swahili, Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa).
africa: The continent includes Madagascar and various archipelagos.
africa: But there are also several Nilotic groups in South Sudan and East Africa, the mixed Swahili people on the Swahili Coast, and a few remaining indigenous Khoisan ("San" or "Bushmen") and Pygmy peoples in Southern and Central Africa, respectively.
africa: OCLC 891842452.
africa: Africa is considered by anthropologists to be the most genetically diverse continent as a result of being the longest inhabited.
africa: Cape Verde, 17°33'22" W, the westernmost point, is a distance of approximately 7,400 km (4,600 mi) to Ras Hafun, 51°27'52" E, the most easterly projection that neighbours Cape Guardafui, the tip of the Horn of Africa.
africa: The San are physically distinct from other Africans and are the indigenous people of southern Africa.
africa: In the Kalahari Desert of Southern Africa, the distinct people known as the Bushmen (also "San", closely related to, but distinct from "Hottentots") have long been present.
africa: Brandt and Shomarka Keita (2025) have highlighted the problematic categorisation of genetic haplogroups characterised as ‘African’ and ‘Eurasian' in North African genome studies.
africa: Some countries experienced still higher growth rates, notably Angola, Sudan and Equatorial Guinea, all of which had recently begun extracting their petroleum reserves or had expanded their oil extraction capacity.
africa: A small reason was due to the fall in copper prices in 2011, but the bigger reason was that a large amount of the money Zambia borrowed was wasted or pocketed by the elite.
africa: In the 6th century, Aksum conquered South Arabia, though struggled to maintain control over it, and began to gradually lose its dominance over Red Sea trade to Persians and Arabs.
africa: In the following centuries, over a million Europeans are estimated to have been captured and enslaved by Barbary corsairs.
africa: 1 (11th ed.).
africa: All countries in sub-Saharan Africa had TFRs (average number of children) above replacement level in 2019 and accounted for 27.1% of global livebirths.
africa: Around 3100 BC Upper Egypt conquered Lower Egypt to unify Egypt under the 1st dynasty, with the process of consolidation and assimilation completed by the time of the 3rd dynasty who formed the Old Kingdom of Egypt in 2686 BC.
africa: The HIPC resulted in some positive and negative effects on the economy in Africa.
africa: suggests "Africa" comes from the Latin aprica, meaning "sunny".
africa: Collins, Robert O.; Burns, James M.
africa: Exceptions include Libya and Equatorial Guinea, both of which possess large oil reserves.
africa: Isidore of Seville in his 7th-century Etymologiae XIV.5.2.
africa: ISBN 978-0-333-31006-9.
africa: 980 BC as the region was incorporated into global trading networks, and it exhibited Sabaean influences which most scholars attribute to a small migration of Sabaeans and their assimilation.
africa: Sosso was quickly overthrown by the Mali Empire who conquered Gao and dominated the trans-Saharan trade.
africa: European rule had significant impacts on Africa's societies, and colonies were maintained for the purpose of economic exploitation and extraction of natural resources.
africa: The islands in the Indian Ocean are also populated primarily by people of Asian origin, often mixed with Africans and Europeans.
africa: Cricket is popular in some African nations.
africa: In the Horn, Ethiopia underwent reforms, seeking to revive the imperial state, something that was later achieved by Menelik II's conquests.
africa: The African Union, not to be confused with the AU Commission, is formed by the Constitutive Act of the African Union, which aims to transform the African Economic Community, a federated commonwealth, into a state under established international conventions.
africa: The sudden loss of both Soviet and American aid at the end of the Cold War and fall of the USSR resulted in severe economic and political turmoil in the countries most dependent on foreign support.
africa: In 2007, Chinese companies invested a total of US$1 billion in Africa.
africa: Africa is the largest of the three great southward projections from the largest landmass of the Earth.
africa: The genetic marker E1b1 was identified to have wide distribution across Egypt, with "P2/215/M35.1 (E1b1b), for short M35, likely also originated in eastern tropical Africa, and is predominantly distributed in an arc from the Horn of Africa up through Egypt".
africa: Morocco, in northern Africa, hosted the 2002 Morocco Cup, but the national team has never qualified for a major tournament.
africa: The continent's total nominal GDP remains behind that of several individual countries, including the United States, China, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, India and France.
africa: Algeria is Africa's largest country by area, and Nigeria is its largest by population.
africa: A significant part of this growth can also be attributed to the facilitated diffusion of information technologies and specifically the mobile telephone.
africa: The Malagasy people of Madagascar are an Austronesian people, but those along the coast are generally mixed with Bantu, Arab, Indian and European origins.
africa: Slave trades created various diasporas, especially in the Americas.
africa: Saladin, a Fatimid vizier, usurped power in the 12th century and established the Ayyubid dynasty which restored Egyptian prestige, while the Almohad revolution deposed the Almoravids to the east.
africa: Madagascar was settled by Austronesian peoples between the 5th and 7th centuries, as societies organized at the behest of hasina and competed over with one another over the island's estuaries and bridgeheads.
africa: While Africans profess a wide variety of religious beliefs, the majority of the people respect African religions or parts of them.
africa: The following table shows the projected nominal GDP and GDP per capita (at purchasing power parity) in 2026 by the IMF.
africa: Palgrave Macmillan.
africa: European Investment Bank.
africa: In oral traditions time is sometimes mythical and social, and ancestors were considered historical actors.
africa: A definite line was drawn between the two continents by the geographer Ptolemy (85–165 CE), indicating Alexandria along the Prime Meridian and making the isthmus of Suez and the Red Sea the boundary between Asia and Africa.
africa: African culture was strongly denigrated and persecuted, as pervasive racial discrimination deepened the scars of humiliation.
africa: Aksum's king converted from traditional religion to Christianity in the 4th century, gradually followed by the population.
africa: The Portuguese arrived at the coast soon after, and exploited divisions between coastal city-states to gain control over them while utilising a powerful navy.
africa: Although South Africa was one of the first African countries to gain independence, the state remained under the control of the country's white minority, initially through qualified voting rights and from 1956 by a system of racial segregation known as apartheid, until 1994.
africa: The 1st-century Jewish historian Flavius Josephus (Ant.
africa: By the late-1st millennium CE, Bantu-speaking farmers populated most of Southern Africa's cultivable savannas, reaching southwards to the Kei River; they traded goods such as livestock, grain, and metal tools between communities and with hunter-gatherers.
africa: In 1994 a genocide in Rwanda resulted in up to 800,000 deaths, added to a severe refugee crisis and fuelled the rise of militia groups in neighbouring countries.
africa: The New Kingdom's collapse liberated the Kingdom of Kush in Nubia, which manoeuvred into power in Upper Egypt and conquered Lower Egypt in 754 BC to form the Kushite Empire.
africa: Together they inflicted heavy casualties, with the war only ending inconclusively when Mauretania's Bocchus I sold out Jugurtha to the Romans.
africa: Prestige and imperial rivalries were at play.
africa: In 2024 nearly 307 million people in Africa were undernourished (46% of the global total), an increase of 10 million people since 2023 and 34 million from 2022.
africa: Water development and management are complex in Africa due to the multiplicity of trans-boundary water resources (rivers, lakes and aquifers).
africa: In the 1st century BC, Ptolemaic Egypt became entangled in a Roman civil war, leading to its conquest by the Romans in 30 BC.
africa: Most of such violations occur for political reasons, often as a side effect of civil war.
africa: Significant Berber communities remain within Morocco and Algeria in the 21st century, while, to a lesser extent, Berber speakers are also present in some regions of Tunisia and Libya.
africa: It speaks to people according to their understanding, unveiling itself in accordance with their aptitudes.
africa: About ten years after the 2005 debt crisis in sub-Saharan Africa was resolved, Zambia fell back into debt.
africa: Black-eyed peas and voandzeia (African groundnuts), were domesticated, followed by okra and kola nuts.
africa: The majority of people in most governments in Southern, Southeast, and Central Africa, as well as in a sizable portion of the Horn of Africa and West Africa, identify as Christians.
africa: To the east during 7th century, Makuria conquered Nobatia to become the dominant power in the region and resisted Muslim expansion.
africa: The Khoi and San peoples are considered the original inhabitants of this part of Africa.
africa: European campaigns to abolish the Atlantic slave trade led to supply refocusing on internal markets and saw the rapid growth of the Indian Ocean slave trade.
africa: (Accepting the southwestern Asian/Levantine geographical continuity with Africa eliminates a conceptual barrier related to racio-typological thinking permitting an Africasian construct analogous to Eurasian.)”.
africa: Chadic-speaking groups, including the Hausa, are found in more northerly parts of the region nearest to the Sahara, and Nilo-Saharan communities, such as the Songhai, Kanuri, and Zarma, are found in the eastern parts of West Africa bordering Central Africa.
africa: Throughout history the continent saw the rise and fall of many kingdoms and empires, such as Ancient Egypt, Makuria, the Fatimids, Mali, the Asante, Kongo, the Luba, Bunyoro, Great Zimbabwe, Imerina, and the Zulu.
africa: There are several reasons for this, the main one being the colonial idea that African religious beliefs and practices are not good enough.
africa: Namibia is the other African country to have played in a World Cup.
africa: In the central Sahel around Lake Chad, the Kanem–Bornu Empire ruled from the 6th century, and projected power over the Hausa Kingdoms.
africa: Around 1500 BC, Bantu speakers reached central Cameroon.
africa: These first modern humans left Africa and populated the rest of the globe during the Out of Africa II migration dated to approximately 50,000 years BP, exiting the continent either across Bab-el-Mandeb over the Red Sea, the Strait of Gibraltar in Morocco, or the Isthmus of Suez in Egypt.
africa: Colonial rule had wide-reaching effects on African societies, such as the spread of Christianity as part of the 'civilising mission'.
africa: Infobase Publishing.
africa: A multi-sectoral analysis of the Zambezi River, for example, shows that riparian cooperation could lead to a 23% increase in firm energy production without any additional investments.
africa: Southall, Roger; Melber, Henning (2009).
africa: Instability throughout the continent after decolonisation resulted primarily from marginalisation of ethnic groups, and corruption.
africa: This name seems to have originally referred to a native Libyan tribe, an ancestor of modern Berbers; see Terence for discussion.
africa: Deforestation is affecting Africa at twice the world rate, according to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).
africa: Most are of African origin, though some are of European or Asian origin.
africa: In 2021, sub-Saharan Africa accounted for 29% of global births.
africa: The government of the AU consists of all-union, regional, state, and municipal authorities, as well as hundreds of institutions, that together manage the day-to-day affairs of the institution.
africa: In some African states, more than half the population is under 25 years of age.
africa: 25:4, whose descendants, he claimed, had invaded Libya.
africa: The deadliest disease was malaria, endemic throughout Tropical Africa.
africa: In the 14th century the Kingdom of Kongo emerged and dominated the region, with the Tio Kingdom to its north and Mwene Muji to its northeast.
africa: The record for the highest-ever recorded temperature, in Libya in 1922 (58 °C (136 °F)), was discredited in 2013.
africa: Jan Vansina wrote that in the southern savanna 'lords of the land' held priestly roles due to their special relationship with the spirits of the land, and held sway over multiple villages, effectively ruling embryonic kingdoms.
africa: While several individual countries have maintained high growth rates, since 2014 overall growth has considerably slowed, primarily as a result of falling commodity prices, continued lack of industrialisation, and epidemics such as Ebola and COVID-19.
africa: ISBN 978-0-521-68708-9.
africa: The Kingdom of Kerma emerged around this time to become the dominant force in Nubia, controlling territory as large as Egypt between the 1st and 4th cataracts of the Nile.
africa: One went west to meet the Western Stream in the DR Congo and Angola, while the other went south and spread across Eastern and Southern Africa.
africa: The most devastating of these was the Nigerian Civil War, fought between government forces and an Igbo separatist republic, which resulted in a famine that killed 1–2 million people.
africa: In the 1st millennium BC, Phoenician migration and settlement came in search for precious metals in the Gulf of Tunis.
africa: African culture is rich and diverse both within and between the continent's regions, encompassing art, cuisine, music and dance, religion, and dress.
africa: Over 150,000 BP, there was an early dispersal of anatomically modern humans to Southern Africa, equated with the modern-day Khoisan who have preserved their traditional hunter-gatherer way of life.
africa: Africa is starting to focus on agricultural innovation as its new engine for regional trade and prosperity."
africa: With nearly 1.4 billion of the world's human population, Africa's population is the youngest among all the continents; the median age in 2012 was 19.7, when the worldwide median age was 30.4.
africa: Africa is the hottest continent on Earth and 60% of the entire land surface consists of drylands and deserts.
africa: In African societies the oral word is revered, and they have generally recorded their history via oral tradition, which has led anthropologists to term them "oral civilisations", contrasted with "literate civilisations" which pride the written word.
africa: Nevertheless, white Africans remain an important minority in many African states, particularly Zimbabwe, Namibia, Réunion, and South Africa.
africa: The Afroasiatic languages are a language family of about 240 languages and 285 million people widespread throughout the Horn of Africa, North Africa, the Sahel, and Southwest Asia.
africa: In the Horn of Africa, some Ethiopian and Eritrean groups (like the Amhara and Tigrayans, collectively known as Habesha) speak languages from the Semitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family, while the Oromo and Somali speak languages from the Cushitic branch of Afro-Asiatic.
africa: Between 1975 and 1977, over a million colonials returned to Portugal alone.
africa: The first few decades of European colonialism saw intense violence, disorder, and atrocities, such as that of the Congo Free State, German South West Africa, and French Algeria, with the late colonial period relatively peaceful in comparison.
africa: Other migrations of modern humans within the African continent have been dated to that time, with evidence of early human settlement found in Southern Africa, Southeast Africa, North Africa, and the Sahara.
africa: Extensive east-west belts of deserts, grasslands, and forests from north to south were crucial for the moulding of their respective societies and meant that symbiotic trade relations developed in response to the differing environments.
africa: There were strong motives for the conquest of Africa.
africa: The total fertility rate (children per woman) for Sub-Saharan Africa is 4.7 as of 2018, the highest in the world.
africa: Aksum was described as one of the four great powers by Persian prophet Mani in the 3rd century.
africa: In the 16th century Muslims united behind Adal in jihad to reconquer the Muslim lands and occupy Ethiopia, until, with Portuguese assistance, Ethiopia counter-attacked and its sovereignty was restored in a reduced state.
africa: In the 15th century, trade routes for Zimbabwean gold shifted north, weakening Kilwa.
africa: University of KwaZulu-Natal Press.
africa: Moreover, in recent years some African countries have been considering removing their official former colonial languages, such as Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger which removed French as an official language in the 2020s in favour of native languages, while also renaming colonial street names.
africa: The nascent countries decided to keep their colonial borders, with traditional power structures used in governance to varying degrees.
africa: History of Africa.
africa: 1700), in the 18th century, Lunda rapidly expanded into an extensive commonwealth across the southern savanna, using the institutions of perpetual kinship and positional succession to incorporate peoples.
africa: Africa's total population surpassing other continents is fairly recent; African population surpassed Europe in the 1990s, while the Americas was overtaken sometime around the year 2000.
africa: New York: Cambridge University Press.
africa: As of March 2023, 98 African properties are listed by UNESCO as World Heritage Sites.
africa: Around 3500 BC, due to a tilt in the Earth's orbit, the Sahara experienced a period of rapid desertification.
africa: Further south, the Dutch began colonizing the western Cape in the 17th century, and Britain seized control of the colony around the turn of the 19th century.
africa: In the 10th century, the Fatimids rose to power in modern-day Tunisia, established a rival caliphate, and conquered Egypt, before expanding into the Middle East.
africa: The R haplogroup has also been identified to have high frequencies in central Saharan Africa, among some Afro-Asiatic and Nilo-Saharan language speaking groups.
africa: Other etymological hypotheses have been postulated for the ancient name "Africa":
africa: In 1951, Libya, a former Italian colony, gained independence.
africa: Geopolitically, Egypt's Sinai Peninsula east of the Suez Canal is often considered part of Africa as well.
africa: The Mossi Kingdoms were established to its south.
africa: In the 5th century AD the Vandals conquered Roman Africa before the fall of Rome, though the province was reconquered by the Byzantines a century later.
africa: The once lucrative trans-Saharan trade gradually lost its prominence to the coastal Atlantic trade with Europeans, and the following centuries saw many droughts, famines, and epidemics.
africa: Over 90% of Madagascar's original forests have been destroyed since the arrival of humans 2000 years ago.
africa: Cameroon, Nigeria, Morocco, Senegal, Ghana, and Algeria have advanced to the knockout stage of recent FIFA World Cups.
africa: About 65% of Africa's agricultural land suffers from soil degradation.
africa: Dutch and British diasporas represent the largest communities of European ancestry on the continent today.
africa: In total, at least a fifth of Africans speak the former colonial languages.
africa: European Investment Bank (6 July 2022c).
africa: The large Indian community in Uganda was expelled by the dictator Idi Amin in 1972, though many have since returned.
africa: The Arabs who arrived in the 7th century AD introduced the Arabic language and Islam to North Africa.
africa: According to the United Nations' Human Development Report in 2003, the bottom 24 ranked nations (151st to 175th) were all African.
africa: Bantu-speaking Africans also predominate in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea, and are found in parts of southern Cameroon.
africa: Soon after, Ethiopia conquered Damot and the Muslim states, entering into a 'golden age'.
africa: Carthage's collapse and conquest by Rome in the Punic Wars (3rd and 2nd centuries BC) saw Numidia and Mauretania become major powers in the Maghreb.
africa: The average poor person in sub-Saharan Africa is estimated to live on only 70 cents per day, and was poorer in 2003 than in 1973, indicating increasing poverty in some areas.
africa: Despite the predominance of states, many societies were heterarchical and stateless.
africa: Africa straddles the equator and the prime meridian.
