amazon_river: They are associated with ceramic age cultures; no preceramic shell mounds have been documented so far by archaeologists.
amazon_river: The electric eel (Electrophorus electricus) and more than 100 species of electric fishes (Gymnotiformes) inhabit the Amazon basin.
amazon_river: online
Wohl, Ellen (2011).
amazon_river: The quantity of water released by the Amazon to the Atlantic Ocean is enormous: up to 300,000 m3/s (11,000,000 cu ft/s) in the rainy season, with an average of 209,000 m3/s (7,400,000 cu ft/s) from 1973 to 1990.
amazon_river: Alexander von Humboldt, 1799–1804
Johann Baptist von Spix and Carl Friedrich Philipp von Martius, 1817–1820
Georg von Langsdorff, 1826–1828
Henry Walter Bates and Alfred Russel Wallace, 1848–1859
Richard Spruce, 1849–1864
amazon_river: The main river is navigable for large ocean steamers to Manaus, 1,500 km (930 mi) upriver from the mouth.
amazon_river: The dolphins use echolocation to navigate and hunt in the river's tricky depths.
amazon_river: In that same period, the Amazonas Company was increasing its fleet.
amazon_river: Further research has hypothesized that this practice began around 11,000 years ago.
amazon_river: The Pará and the Amazon are connected by a series of river channels called furos near the town of Breves; between them lies Marajó, the world's largest combined river/sea island.
amazon_river: In the 1960s, economic exploitation of the Amazon basin was seen as a way to fuel the "economic miracle" occurring at the time.
amazon_river: Pinzón called the stream Río Santa María del Mar Dulce, later shortened to Mar Dulce, literally, sweet sea, because of its freshwater pushing out into the ocean.
amazon_river: It later became known as Rio Amazonas in Spanish and Portuguese.
amazon_river: According to James S.
amazon_river: De Orellana took about 57 men, the boat, and some canoes and left Pizarro's troops on 26 December 1541.
amazon_river: Often it is said to be "about" 6,650 km (4,130 mi) long.
amazon_river: Despite this, the Atlantic has sufficient wave and tidal energy to carry most of the Amazon's sediments out to sea, thus the Amazon does not form a significant river delta.
amazon_river: Sometimes known as the "river wolf," it is one of South America's top carnivores.
amazon_river: "Brazilian history as global history." Bulletin of Latin American Research 38.4 (2019): 408–422.
amazon_river: Some say that its effects on forest ecology and regional climate explain the otherwise inexplicable band of lower rainfall through the Amazon basin.
amazon_river: Early human settlements were typically based on low-lying hills or mounds.
amazon_river: According to the Encyclopædia Britannica, the final length of the Amazon remains open to interpretation and continued debate.
amazon_river: They continued downriver through an uninhabited area, where they could not find food.
amazon_river: Species of caimans, that are related to alligators and other crocodilians, also inhabit the Amazon as do varieties of turtles.
amazon_river: This tectonic movement is caused by the subduction of the Nazca Plate underneath the South American Plate.
amazon_river: The Amazonian manatee (Trichechus inunguis), also known as "seacow", is found in the northern Amazon River basin and its tributaries.
amazon_river: The arapaima, known in Brazil as the pirarucu, is a South American tropical freshwater fish, one of the largest freshwater fish in the world, with a length of up to 4.6 metres (15 ft).
amazon_river: In July 2008, the Brazilian Institute for Space Research (INPE) published a news article on their webpage, claiming that the Amazon River was 140 km (87 mi) longer than the Nile.
amazon_river: However, according to the above sources, none of the two results was published, and questions were raised about the researchers' methodology.
amazon_river: On 6 September 1850, Emperor Pedro II of Brazil sanctioned a law authorizing steam navigation on the Amazon and gave the Viscount of Mauá (Irineu Evangelista de Sousa) the task of putting it into effect.
amazon_river: This created dark soil areas known as terra preta de índio ("Indian black earth").
amazon_river: The first direct foreign trade with Manaus commenced around 1874.
amazon_river: This resulted in the development of "Operation Amazon", an economic development project that brought large-scale agriculture and ranching to Amazonia.
amazon_river: Paralleling the Amazon River is a large aquifer, dubbed the Hamza River, the discovery of which was made public in August 2011.
amazon_river: The Lower Amazon begins where the darkly colored waters of the Rio Negro meets the sandy-colored Rio Solimões (the upper Amazon), and for over 6 km (3.7 mi) these waters run side by side without mixing.
amazon_river: This, although the government believed it could sustain millions, instead could sustain very few.
amazon_river: However, the Amazon has been reported as being anywhere between 6,275 km (3,899 mi) and 6,992 km (4,345 mi) long.
amazon_river: The results were reached by measuring the Amazon downstream to the beginning of the tidal estuary of Canal do Sul and then, after a sharp turn back, following tidal canals surrounding the isle of Marajó and finally including the marine waters of the Río Pará bay in its entire length.
amazon_river: During what many archaeologists called the formative stage, Amazonian societies were deeply involved in the emergence of South America's highland agrarian systems.
amazon_river: Wary of foreign exploitation of the nation's resources, Brazilian governments in the 1940s set out to develop the interior, away from the seaboard where foreigners owned large tracts of land.
amazon_river: More than half of the water in the Amazon downstream of Manacapuru is below sea level.
amazon_river: The colour of its skin changes with age; young animals are gray, but become pink and then white as they mature.
amazon_river: His men threatened to mutiny if the expedition turned back to attempt to rejoin Pizarro, the party being over 100 leagues downstream at this point.
amazon_river: The racial makeup of the city is 64% pardo (mulatto and mestizo) and 32% white.
amazon_river: The warriors were led by women, reminding de Orellana of the Amazon warriors, a tribe of women warriors related to Iranian Scythians and Sarmatians mentioned in Greek mythology.
amazon_river: The Amazon is responsible for about 20% of the Earth's fresh water entering the ocean.
amazon_river: The anaconda is found in shallow waters in the Amazon basin.
amazon_river: These pre-Columbian settlements created highly developed civilizations.
amazon_river: The plume generated by the river's discharge covers up to 1.3 million km2 and is responsible for muddy bottoms influencing a wide area of the tropical north Atlantic in terms of salinity, pH, light penetration, and sedimentation.
amazon_river: The Manaus Iranduba Bridge linking the cities of Manaus and Iranduba spans the Rio Negro, the second-largest tributary of the Amazon, just before their confluence.
amazon_river: To achieve this level of development, the indigenous inhabitants of the Amazon rainforest altered the forest's ecology by selective cultivation and the use of fire.
amazon_river: The tucuxi (Sotalia fluviatilis), also a dolphin species, is found both in the rivers of the Amazon basin and in the coastal waters of South America.
amazon_river: A variety of methods were used to compare the lengths of the Mantaro river vs.
amazon_river: On the south bank, above the Xingu, a line of low bluffs bordering the floodplain extends nearly to Santarém in a series of gentle curves before they bend to the southwest, and, abutting upon the lower Tapajós, merge into the bluffs which form the terrace margin of the Tapajós river valley.
amazon_river: From that point, Quebrada Carhuasanta emerges from Nevado Mismi, joins Quebrada Apacheta and soon forms Río Lloqueta which becomes Río Hornillos and eventually joins the Río Apurímac.
amazon_river: The name Amazonas is thought to be taken from the native warriors, mostly women, whose attack on this expedition reminded De Orellana of the mythical female Amazon warriors from the ancient Hellenic culture in Greece (see also Origin of the name).
amazon_river: In June 2007, Guido Gelli, director of science at the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), told London's Telegraph Newspaper that it could be considered that the Amazon was the longest river in the world.
amazon_river: "The Amazon in motion: Changing politics, development strategies, peoples, landscapes, and livelihoods." Amazon Assessment Report 2021, Part II (2021): ch 14 pp 1–65.
amazon_river: If only the river's main channel is considered, between the islands of Curuá (state of Amapá) and Jurupari (state of Pará), the width falls to about 15 km (9.3 mi).
amazon_river: A large-scale colonization program saw families from northeastern Brazil relocated to the "land without people" in the Amazon Basin.
amazon_river: In this case, the width of the mouth of the river is usually measured from Cabo Norte, the cape located straight east of Pracuúba in the Brazilian state of Amapá, to Ponta da Tijoca near the town of Curuçá, in the state of Pará.
amazon_river: While debate as to whether the Amazon or the Nile is the world's longest river has gone on for many years, the historic consensus of geographic authorities has been to regard the Amazon as the second longest river in the world, with the Nile being the longest.
amazon_river: The Amazonian fish fauna is the centre of diversity for neotropical fishes, some of which are popular aquarium specimens like the neon tetra and the freshwater angelfish.
amazon_river: For most of the 18th–19th centuries and into the 20th century, the Marañón was generally considered the source of the Amazon.
amazon_river: In the late 1600s, Czech Jesuit Father Samuel Fritz, an apostle of the Omagus established some forty mission villages.
amazon_river: Complete series from starting 1903.
amazon_river: The University of Chicago Press.
amazon_river: Πέρσαι" ("hamazakaran: 'to make war' in Persian"), where it appears together with the Indo-Iranian root * kar- "make" (from which Sanskrit karma is also derived).
amazon_river: Archaeologists estimate that by the time the Spanish conquistador De Orellana traveled across the Amazon in 1541, more than 3 million indigenous people lived around the Amazon.
amazon_river: The Amazon represents 20% of the global riverine discharge into oceans.
amazon_river: Its most remote sources are found on the inter-Andean plateau, just a short distance from the Pacific Ocean.
amazon_river: Seven men died in that village.
amazon_river: Shell mounds were the earliest evidence of habitation; they represent piles of human refuse and are mainly dated between 7500 BC and 4000 BC.
amazon_river: The Amazon: Rivers of Blushing Dolphins.
amazon_river: The trade with Andean civilizations in the terrains of the headwaters in the Andes formed an essential contribution to the social and religious development of higher-altitude civilizations like the Muisca and Incas.
amazon_river: Recently, metagenomics has provided answers to what kind of microbes inhabit the river.
amazon_river: The Mantaro and Apurímac rivers join, and with other tributaries form the Ucayali River, which in turn meets the Marañón River upstream of Iquitos, Peru, forming what countries other than Brazil consider to be the main stem of the Amazon.
amazon_river: It has a series of major tributaries in Colombia, Ecuador and Peru, some of which flow into the Marañón and Ucayali, and others directly into the Amazon proper.
amazon_river: The Amazon enters Brazil with only one-fifth of the flow it finally discharges into the Atlantic Ocean, yet already has a greater flow at this point than the discharge of any other river in the world.
amazon_river: The Brazilian decree took effect on 7 September 1867.
amazon_river: The population of the Brazilian portion of the Amazon basin in 1850 was perhaps 300,000, of whom about 175,000 were Europeans and 25,000 were slaves.
amazon_river: Most of the time, the crossing can be done by a ferry.
amazon_river: In 1560, another Spanish conquistador, Lope de Aguirre, may have made the second descent of the Amazon.
amazon_river: Belém is the major city and port at the mouth of the river at the Atlantic Ocean.
amazon_river: Garfield, Seth.
amazon_river: Brazil, the primary custodian of this invaluable natural resource, grapples with the challenges of mitigating the effects of this drought on communities and ecosystems, further emphasizing the urgency of sustainable environmental management and conservation efforts.
amazon_river: The Casiquiare is a river distributary of the upper Orinoco, which flows southward into the Rio Negro, which in turn flows into the Amazon.
amazon_river: Eventually the Andes Mountains formed, blocking its flow to the Pacific Ocean and causing it to switch directions to its current mouth in the Atlantic Ocean.
amazon_river: In this journey, Orellana baptized some of the affluents of the Amazonas like Rio Negro, Napo and Jurua.
amazon_river: Olson, "The Munduruku expansion (in the 18th century) dislocated and displaced the Kawahíb, breaking the tribe down into much smaller groups ...
amazon_river: This situation changed dramatically during the 20th century.
amazon_river: The Tocantins River enters the southern portion of the Amazon delta.
amazon_river: If the Pará river and the Marajó island ocean frontage are included, the Amazon estuary is some 325 km (202 mi) wide.
amazon_river: The Amazon's length was calculated as 6,992 km (4,345 mi), taking the Apacheta Creek as its source.
amazon_river: The Trans-Amazonian Highway's three pioneering highways were completed within ten years but never fulfilled their promise.
amazon_river: According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), the Yanomami, a tribe of approximately 30,000, struggles to preserve their land, culture, and traditional way of life due to encroaching illegal gold miners, malnutrition, and malaria.
amazon_river: The Amazon has over 1,100 tributaries, twelve of which are over 1,500 km (930 mi) long.
amazon_river: According to an earlier article on the webpage of the National Geographic, the Amazon's length was calculated as 6,800 km (4,200 mi) by a Brazilian scientist.
amazon_river: From this point to the confluence of the Ucayali and the Marañón, some 1,600 km (990 mi), the forested banks are just above the water and are inundated long before the river attains its maximum flood stage.
amazon_river: The Amazon's flooded forests are the most extensive example of this habitat type in the world.
amazon_river: It has a recognized length of 6,400 kilometers (4,000 mi), but according to some reports, its length varies from 6,575–7,062 kilometers (4,086–4,388 mi).
amazon_river: The river systems and flood plains in Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, and Venezuela, whose waters drain into the Solimões and its tributaries, are called the "Upper Amazon".
amazon_river: In addition to thousands of species of fish, the river supports crabs, algae, and turtles.
amazon_river: It is often said to be "at least" 6,400 km (4,000 mi) long.
amazon_river: Scientists argue that by burning areas of the forest repeatedly, the indigenous people caused the soil to become richer in nutrients.
amazon_river: The fresh water, being lighter, flows on top of the seawater, diluting the salinity and altering the colour of the ocean surface over an area up to 2,500,000 km2 (970,000 sq mi) in extent.
amazon_river: The rise of the Rio Negro starts in February or March and begins to recede in June.
amazon_river: During glacial periods, sea levels dropped and the great Amazon lake rapidly drained and became a river, which would eventually become the disputed world's longest, draining the most extensive area of rainforest on the planet.
amazon_river: After 170 km (106 mi), the Coca River joined the Napo River (at a point now known as Puerto Francisco de Orellana); the party stopped for a few weeks to build a boat just upriver from this confluence.
amazon_river: The boto is the subject of a legend in Brazil about a dolphin that turns into a man and seduces maidens by the riverside.
amazon_river: True cinnamon (Cinnamomum Verum) is not native to South America.
amazon_river: A more conservative measurement excluding the Pará river estuary, from the mouth of the Araguari River to Ponta do Navio on the northern coast of Marajó, would still give the mouth of the Amazon a width of over 180 km (112 mi).
amazon_river: Since colonial times, the Portuguese portion of the Amazon basin has remained a land largely undeveloped by agriculture and occupied by indigenous people who survived the arrival of European diseases.
amazon_river: Also present in large numbers is the notorious piranha, an omnivorous fish that congregates in large schools and may attack livestock.
amazon_river: He was accompanied by his second-in-command Francisco de Orellana.
amazon_river: By the time he and his men reached another village, many of them were sick from hunger and eating "noxious plants", and near death.
amazon_river: The town of Manáos, now Manaus, at the mouth of the Rio Negro, had a population between 1,000 and 1,500.
amazon_river: The river pushes a vast plume of fresh water into the ocean.
amazon_river: A 2014 study by Americans James Contos and Nicolas Tripcevich in Area, a peer-reviewed journal of the Royal Geographical Society, however, identifies the most distant source of the Amazon as actually being in the Río Mantaro drainage.
amazon_river: Other related cinnamon-containing plants (of the family Lauraceae) are fairly common in that part of the Amazon and Pizarro probably saw some of these.
amazon_river: Meanwhile, in 2022, the region's severe drought, has led to a devastating increase in water temperatures, reaching 39.1 degrees Celsius, causing the demise of 125 Amazon river dolphins.
amazon_river: He organised the "Companhia de Navegação e Comércio do Amazonas" in Rio de Janeiro in 1852; in the following year it commenced operations with four small steamers, the Monarca ('Monarch'), the Cametá, the Marajó and the Rio Negro.
amazon_river: For instance, pre-Columbian indigenous people on the island of Marajó may have developed social stratification and supported a population of 100,000 people.
amazon_river: During the rubber boom it is estimated that diseases brought by immigrants, such as typhus and malaria, killed 40,000 native Amazonians.
amazon_river: Contos continued downstream to the ocean and finished the first complete descent of the Amazon from its newly identified source (finishing November 2012), a journey repeated by two groups after the news spread.
amazon_river: The Cabanagem revolt (1835–1840) was directed against the white ruling class.
amazon_river: Then distances from Lago Junín to several potential source points in the uppermost Mantaro river were measured, which enabled them to determine that the Cordillera Rumi Cruz was the most distant source of water in the Mantaro basin (and therefore in the entire Amazon basin).
amazon_river: Annual flooding occurs in late northern latitude winter at high tide when the incoming waters of the Atlantic are funnelled into the Amazon delta.
amazon_river: The Brazilian Amazon's principal commercial city, Pará (now Belém), had from 10,000 to 12,000 inhabitants, including slaves.
amazon_river: Ultimately, they determined that the most distant point in the Mantaro drainage is nearly 80 km farther upstream compared to Mt.
amazon_river: However, in the 1970s the government took a new approach with the National Integration Program (PIN).
amazon_river: Fifteen million years ago, the main tectonic uplift phase of the Andean chain started.
amazon_river: The most important microbes in the Amazon River are Actinomycetota, Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria and Thermoproteota.
amazon_river: Regarding the initial mission of finding cinnamon, Pizarro reported to the king that they had found cinnamon trees, but that they could not be profitably harvested.
amazon_river: Large portions of the Trans-Amazonian and its accessory roads, such as BR-317 (Manaus-Porto Velho), are derelict and impassable in the rainy season.
amazon_river: In its lowermost section, the Amazon's depth averages 20 to 50 m (66 to 164 ft), in some places as much as 100 m (330 ft).
amazon_river: Thanks in part to the mercantile development associated with steamboat navigation coupled with the internationally driven demand for natural rubber, the Peruvian city of Iquitos became a thriving, cosmopolitan center of commerce.
amazon_river: Gonzalo Pizarro set off in 1541 to explore east of Quito into the South American interior in search of El Dorado, the "city of gold" and La Canela, the "valley of cinnamon".
amazon_river: Along with the Orinoco, the Amazon is one of the main habitats of the boto, also known as the Amazon river dolphin (Inia geoffrensis).
amazon_river: They are best represented by the Marajoara culture.
amazon_river: There is ample evidence that the areas surrounding the Amazon River were home to complex and large-scale indigenous societies, mainly chiefdoms who developed towns and cities.
amazon_river: In an average dry season, 110,000 km2 (42,000 sq mi) of land are water-covered, while in the wet season, the flooded area of the Amazon basin rises to 350,000 km2 (140,000 sq mi).
amazon_river: In search of the Amazon: Brazil, the United States and the nature of a region (Duke University Press, 2013) online
Hecht, Susanna, et al.
amazon_river: The most distant source of the Amazon was thought to be in the Apurímac river drainage for nearly a century.
amazon_river: Because of habitat destruction and hunting, its population has dramatically decreased.
amazon_river: All the remaining villages, as far up as Tabatinga, on the Brazilian frontier of Peru, were relatively small.
amazon_river: Another Amazonian freshwater fish is the arowana (or aruanã in Portuguese), such as the silver arowana (Osteoglossum bicirrhosum), which is a predator and very similar to the arapaima, but only reaches a length of 120 cm (47 in).
amazon_river: Its population is limited to freshwater habitats, and, unlike other manatees, it does not venture into saltwater.
amazon_river: The Amazon proper runs mostly through Brazil and Peru, and is part of the border between Colombia and Peru.
amazon_river: Gradually, this inland sea became a massive swampy, freshwater lake and the marine inhabitants adapted to life in freshwater.
amazon_river: The Amazon River has an average discharge of about 215,000–230,000 cubic meters per second (7,600,000–8,100,000 cu ft/s)—approximately 6,591–7,570 cubic kilometers (1,581–1,816 cu mi) per year, greater than the next seven largest independent rivers combined.
amazon_river: From 1648 to 1652, Portuguese Brazilian bandeirante António Raposo Tavares led an expedition from São Paulo overland to the mouth of the Amazon, investigating many of its tributaries, including the Rio Negro, and covering a distance of over 10,000 km (6,200 mi).
amazon_river: Brazilians call this section the Solimões River above its confluence with the Rio Negro forming what Brazilians call the Amazon at the Meeting of Waters (Portuguese: Encontro das Águas) at Manaus, the largest city on the river.
amazon_river: The drainage area of the Amazon basin above Óbidos city is about 4,700,000 km2 (1,800,000 sq mi), and, below, only about 1,300,000 km2 (500,000 sq mi) (around 20%), exclusive of the 1,000,000 km2 (390,000 sq mi) of the Tocantins basin.
amazon_river: After the confluence of Apurímac and Ucayali, the river leaves Andean terrain and is surrounded by floodplain.
amazon_river: In the lower reaches of the river, the north bank consists of a series of steep, table-topped hills extending for about 240 km (150 mi) from opposite the mouth of the Xingu as far as Monte Alegre.
amazon_river: There are several factors that can affect these measurements, such as the position of the geographical source and the mouth, the scale of measurement, and the length measuring techniques (for details see also List of rivers by length).
amazon_river: the Apurímac river from their most distant source points to their confluence, showing the longer length of the Mantaro.
amazon_river: It is the richest tropical forest in the world in terms of biodiversity.
amazon_river: It is estimated that from 30% to 40% of the population of Grão-Pará, estimated at 100,000 people, died.
amazon_river: The Nile is reported to be anywhere from 5,499 to 7,088 km (3,417 to 4,404 mi).
amazon_river: Meanwhile, private individuals were building and running small steam craft of their own on the main river as well as on many of its tributaries.
amazon_river: Manaus alone makes up approximately 50% of the population of the largest Brazilian state of Amazonas.
amazon_river: Schulze, Frederik, and Georg Fischer.
amazon_river: Two of the top ten rivers by discharge are tributaries of the Amazon river.
amazon_river: Although the Ucayali–Marañón confluence is the point at which most geographers place the beginning of the Amazon River proper, in Brazil the river is known at this point as the Solimões das Águas.
amazon_river: With a population of 1.9 million people in 2014, Manaus is the largest city on the Amazon.
amazon_river: It drains from west to east, from Iquitos in Peru, across Brazil to the Atlantic.
amazon_river: It is a mammal and a herbivore.
amazon_river: Only about 10% of the Amazon's water enters downstream of Óbidos, very little of which is from the northern slope of the valley.
amazon_river: In recent years, the Amazon River has experienced historically low water levels, the lowest in over a century.
amazon_river: The original architect of this expansion was president Getúlio Vargas, with the demand for rubber from the Allied forces in World War II providing funding for the drive.
amazon_river: The low river banks are interrupted by only a few hills, and the river enters the enormous Amazon rainforest.
amazon_river: Complete series from starting 1920.
amazon_river: It is now listed on Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), which effectively bans international trade.
amazon_river: Mismi in the Apurímac drainage, and thus the maximal length of the Amazon river is about 80 km longer than previously thought.
amazon_river: The Casiquiare is the largest river on earth that links two major river systems, a so-called bifurcation.
amazon_river: The proto-Amazon during the Cretaceous flowed west, as part of a proto-Amazon-Congo river system, from the interior of present-day Africa when the continents were connected, forming western Gondwana.
amazon_river: In March 1500, Spanish conquistador Vicente Yáñez Pinzón was the first documented European to sail up the Amazon River.
amazon_river: The lower Amazon seems to have once been a gulf of the Atlantic Ocean, the waters of which washed the cliffs near Óbidos.
amazon_river: Cambridge University Press.
amazon_river: More than 5,600 species were known as of 2011, and approximately fifty new species are discovered each year.
amazon_river: It is the largest species of river dolphin, and it can grow to lengths of up to 2.6 m (8.5 ft).
amazon_river: Smaller ocean vessels below 9,000 tons and with less than 5.5 m (18 ft) draft can reach as far as Iquitos, Peru, 3,600 km (2,200 mi) from the sea.
amazon_river: After about 700 km (430 mi), the Apurímac then joins Río Mantaro to form the Ene, which joins the Perene to form the Tambo, which joins the Urubamba River to form the Ucayali.
amazon_river: Beyond that, small boats frequently ascend to the Pongo de Manseriche, just above Achual Point in Peru.
amazon_river: Some of the more notable ones are:
amazon_river: Orellana offered and was ordered to follow the Napo River, then known as Río de la Canela ("Cinnamon River"), and return with food for the party.
amazon_river: The plume is about 400 km (250 mi) long and between 100 and 200 km (62 and 124 mi) wide.
amazon_river: Many indigenous tribes engaged in constant warfare.
amazon_river: The resulting undular tidal bore is called the pororoca, with a leading wave that can be up to 7.6 m (25 ft) high and travel up to 800 km (500 mi) inland.
amazon_river: Encyclopædia Britannica.
amazon_river: At Manacapuru, the Amazon's water level is only about 24 m (79 ft) above mean sea level.
amazon_river: However, De Orellana missed the confluence (probably with the Aguarico) where he was searching supplies for his men.
amazon_river: The headwaters of the Apurímac River on Nevado Mismi in Peru had been considered, for nearly a century, the Amazon basin's most distant source until a 2014 study found it to be the headwaters of the Mantaro River on the Cordillera Rumi Cruz in Peru.
amazon_river: Figurative mounds are the most recent types of occupation.
amazon_river: Of these 412 dams, 151 are constructed over six of the main tributary rivers that drain into the Amazon.
amazon_river: Many branches begin flooding in November and might continue to rise until June.
amazon_river: The rise of the Andes and the linkage of the Brazilian and Guyana bedrock shields, blocked the river and caused the Amazon Basin to become a vast inland sea.
amazon_river: At Óbidos, a bluff 17 m (56 ft) above the river is backed by low hills.
amazon_river: The Amazon River (UK: , US: ; Portuguese: rio Amazonas, Spanish: río Amazonas) in South America is the largest river by discharge volume of water in the world, and the second-longest or longest river system in the world, a title which is disputed with the Nile.
amazon_river: The great deltas of the world are all in relatively protected bodies of water, while the Amazon empties directly into the turbulent Atlantic.
amazon_river: There are approximately 30 to 60 species of piranha.
amazon_river: Eleven to ten million years ago, waters worked through the sandstone from the west and the Amazon began to flow eastward, leading to the emergence of the Amazon rainforest.
amazon_river: Artificial earth platforms for entire villages are the second type of mounds.
amazon_river: Although the Amazon river remains undammed, around 412 dams are in operation on the Amazon's tributary rivers.
amazon_river: These hills are cut down to a kind of terrace which lies between them and the river.
amazon_river: Obtaining these measurements was difficult given the class IV–V nature of each of these rivers, especially in their lower "Abyss" sections.
amazon_river: The Amazon basin, the largest in the world, covers about 40% of South America, an area of approximately 7,050,000 square kilometres (2,722,020 sq mi).
amazon_river: At some points, the river divides into anabranches, or multiple channels, often very long, with inland and lateral channels, all connected by a complicated system of natural canals, cutting the low, flat igapó lands, which are never more than 5 m (16 ft) above low river, into many islands.
amazon_river: This was the first step in opening up the vast interior.
amazon_river: Many settlements grew along the road from Brasília to Belém with the highway and National Integration Program, however, the program failed as the settlers were unequipped to live in the delicate rainforest ecosystem.
amazon_river: The name Rio Amazonas was reportedly given after native warriors attacked a 16th-century expedition by Francisco de Orellana.
amazon_river: The Madeira River rises and falls two months earlier than most of the rest of the Amazon river.
amazon_river: Small towns and villages are scattered across the forest, and because its vegetation is so dense, some remote areas are still unexplored.
amazon_river: Charles Marie de La Condamine explored the river in 1743.
amazon_river: The Amazon and its tributaries are the main habitat of the giant otter (Pteronura brasiliensis).
amazon_river: The Amazon River and its tributaries are characterised by extensive forested areas that become flooded every rainy season.
amazon_river: More than one-third of all known species in the world live in the Amazon rainforest.
amazon_river: In 1851 Iquitos had a population of 200, and by 1900 its population reached 20,000.
amazon_river: 80 million years ago, the two continents split.
amazon_river: A World of Rivers.
amazon_river: One of the world's largest species of snake, the anaconda spends most of its time in the water with just its nostrils above the surface.
amazon_river: The most accurate measurement method was direct GPS measurement obtained by kayak descent of each of the rivers from their source points to their confluence (performed by Contos).
amazon_river: Since only 4% of the Amazon's hydropower potential has been developed in countries like Brazil, more damming projects are underway and hundreds more are planned.
amazon_river: The word Amazon itself may be derived from the Iranian compound * ha-maz-an- "(one) fighting together" or ethnonym * ha-mazan- "warriors", a word attested indirectly through a derivation, a denominal verb in Hesychius of Alexandria's gloss "ἁμαζακάραν· πολεμεῖν.
amazon_river: Near the mouth of the Rio Negro to Serpa, nearly opposite the river Madeira, the banks of the Amazon are low, until approaching Manaus, they rise to become rolling hills.
amazon_river: The Amazon basin is the largest drainage basin in the world, with an area of approximately 7,000,000 square kilometers (2,700,000 sq mi).
amazon_river: Another Spanish explorer, Francisco de Orellana, was the first European to travel from the origins of the upstream river basins, situated in the Andes, to the mouth of the river.
amazon_river: River stingrays (Potamotrygonidae) are also known.
amazon_river: Not all of the Amazon's tributaries flood at the same time of the year.
amazon_river: Using the same techniques, the length of the Nile was calculated as 6,853 km (4,258 mi), which is longer than previous estimates but still shorter than the Amazon.
amazon_river: In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.).
amazon_river: This event displays the deteriorating environmental conditions and indicates the increasing vulnerability of the river's ecosystem.
amazon_river: The rise and fall of the Amazon rubber industry: an historical anthropology (Routledge, 2017) online.
amazon_river: From the town of Canaria at the great bend of the Amazon to the Negro, vast areas of land are submerged at high water, above which only the upper part of the trees of the sombre forests appear.
amazon_river: For centuries ships have reported fresh water near the Amazon's mouth yet well out of sight of land in what otherwise seemed to be the open ocean.
amazon_river: The bull shark (Carcharhinus leucas), a euryhaline species which can thrive in both salt and fresh water, has been reported as far as 4,000 km (2,500 mi) up the Amazon River at Iquitos in Peru.
amazon_river: Amazon natural region, in Colombia
Peruvian Amazonia in Peru
amazon_river: It gathers its waters from 5 degrees north latitude to 20 degrees south latitude.
amazon_river: In the 1860s, approximately 3,000 tons of rubber were being exported annually, and by 1911 annual exports had grown to 44,000 tons, representing 9.3% of Peru's exports.
amazon_river: Damming the Amazon River could potentially bring about the "end of free flowing rivers" and contribute to an "ecosystem collapse" that will cause major social and environmental problems.
amazon_river: The candirú, native to the Amazon River, is a species of parasitic fresh water catfish in the family Trichomycteridae, just one of more than 1200 species of catfish in the Amazon basin.
amazon_river: Based on intelligence received from a captive native chief named Delicola, they expected to find food within a few days downriver by ascending another river to the north.
amazon_river: Historians are uncertain whether the river he descended was the Amazon or the Orinoco River, which runs more or less parallel to the Amazon further north.
amazon_river: This was done in conjunction with infrastructure projects mainly the Trans-Amazonian Highway (Transamazônica).
amazon_river: For most of its course, the river flows through the Amazon Rainforest, where there are very few roads and cities.
amazon_river: Other catfish 'walk' overland on their ventral fins, while the kumakuma (Brachyplatystoma filamentosum), aka piraiba or "goliath catfish", can reach 3.6 m (12 ft) in length and 200 kg (440 lb) in weight.
amazon_river: Four centuries after the European discovery of the Amazon river, the total cultivated area in its basin was probably less than 65 km2 (25 sq mi), excluding the limited and crudely cultivated areas among the mountains at its extreme headwaters.
amazon_river: This was done through a combination of credit and fiscal incentives.
amazon_river: Portuguese explorer Pedro Teixeira was the first European to travel up the entire river.
amazon_river: Foreign companies settled in Iquitos, from where they controlled the extraction of rubber.
amazon_river: The depth of the Amazon between Manacapuru and Óbidos has been calculated as between 20 and 26 m (66 and 85 ft).
amazon_river: Every year, the river rises more than 9 m (30 ft), flooding the surrounding forests, known as várzea ("flooded forests").
amazon_river: It is classified as vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
amazon_river: This is not because the river would be too wide to bridge; for most of its length, engineers could build a bridge across the river easily.
amazon_river: Because of the terra preta, indigenous communities were able to make land fertile and thus sustainable for the large-scale agriculture needed to support their large populations and complex social structures.
amazon_river: These include rivers Putumayo, Caquetá, Vaupés, Guainía, Morona, Pastaza, Nucuray, Urituyacu, Chambira, Tigre, Nanay, Napo, and Huallaga.
amazon_river: The definition of where exactly the mouth of the Amazon is located, and how wide it is, is a matter of dispute, because of the area's peculiar geography.
amazon_river: [Munduruku] first came to the attention of Europeans in 1770 when they began a series of widespread attacks on Brazilian settlements along the Amazon River."
amazon_river: online, with long bibliography
Nugent, Stephen L.
amazon_river: The portion of the river's drainage basin in Brazil alone is larger than any other river's basin.
amazon_river: Smaller riverboats can reach 780 km (480 mi) higher, as far as Achual Point.
amazon_river: There is a natural water union between the Amazon and the Orinoco basins, the so-called Casiquiare canal.
amazon_river: He arrived in Quito in 1637, and returned via the same route.
amazon_river: He accepted to change the purpose of the expedition to discover new lands in the name of the king of Spain, and the men built a larger boat in which to navigate downstream.
amazon_river: 1 (11th ed.).
amazon_river: The expedition reached the mouth of the Amazon on 24 August 1542, demonstrating the practical navigability of the Great River.
