american_revolution: The colonies also contributed funds and materiel to the war effort; though, two-fifths of this spending was reimbursed by the British government.
american_revolution: Today, more than 100 battlefields and historic sites of the American Revolution are protected and maintained by the government.
american_revolution: Women had to return to knitting goods and to spinning and weaving their own cloth—skills that had fallen into disuse.
american_revolution: Inside Parliament, the primary concern changed from fears of an over-mighty monarch to the issues of representation, parliamentary reform, and government retrenchment.
american_revolution: The American Declaration of Independence influenced the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen of 1789.
american_revolution: The British did have other indigenous allies, particularly in the regions of southwest Quebec on the Patriot's frontier.
american_revolution: The Revolutionary War continued for another five years during which France ultimately entered, supporting the revolutionary cause.
american_revolution: He reduced the civil list, saved money by using competitive bidding for contracts, tightened accounting procedures, and demanded the national government's full share of money and supplies from the individual states.
american_revolution: However, Americans such as James Otis maintained that there was no one in Parliament responsible specifically to any colonial constituency, so they were not "virtually represented" by anyone in Parliament.
american_revolution: In early 1776, France set up a major program of aid to the Americans, and the Spanish secretly added funds.
american_revolution: In 1651, Parliament passed the first in a series of Navigation Acts, which restricted colonial trade with foreign countries.
american_revolution: In 1773, private letters were published in which Massachusetts Governor Thomas Hutchinson claimed that the colonists could not enjoy all English liberties, and in which Lieutenant Governor Andrew Oliver called for the direct payment of colonial officials, which had been paid by local authorities.
american_revolution: As early as 1764, the Boston Patriot leader James Otis, Jr.
american_revolution: Some tried to remain neutral, seeing little value in joining what they perceived to be a "white man's war", and fearing reprisals from whichever side they opposed.
american_revolution: The limits on foreign-built ships greatly benefited the colonial shipbuilding industry, particularly in New England.
american_revolution: He died later in the same year.
american_revolution: He also sincerely believed that he was defending Britain's constitution against usurpers, rather than opposing patriots fighting for their natural rights.
american_revolution: Many of them died from disease, but the survivors were evacuated by the British to their remaining colonies in North America.
american_revolution: Lord Gower and Lord Weymouth both resigned from the government.
american_revolution: Pictures of the Revolutionary War: Select Audiovisual Records, National Archives and Records Administration images, including non-military events and portraits
The Democratic Revolution of the Enlightenment.
american_revolution: discouraging circumstances, the vast majority of slaves were either unable or unwilling to take their chances with the British.
american_revolution: The Second Continental Congress, as the provisional government, established the Continental Army and appointed George Washington as its commander-in-chief in 1775.
american_revolution: However, the national government had no authority to tax, no money either to pay the war debts owed to European nations and the private banks, or to pay Americans who had been given millions of dollars of promissory notes for supplies during the war.
american_revolution: In Boston, the Sons of Liberty burned the records of the vice admiralty court and looted the home of chief justice Thomas Hutchinson.
american_revolution: The exiles represented approximately two percent of the total population of the colonies.
american_revolution: The repeal nonetheless caused widespread celebrations in the colonies.
american_revolution: Loyalists were alienated when the Patriots resorted to violence, such as burning houses and tarring and feathering.
american_revolution: The Second Continental Congress convened in May of 1775 and created the Continental Army, which then surrounded Boston, forcing the British to withdraw by sea in March 1776 and leaving Patriots in control in every colony.
american_revolution: Nationalists led by Washington, Alexander Hamilton, and other veterans feared that the new nation was too fragile to withstand an international war, or even the repetition of internal revolts such as the Shays's Rebellion of 1786 in Massachusetts.
american_revolution: Historian Bernard Bailyn argues that the evangelicalism of the era challenged traditional notions of natural hierarchy by preaching that the Bible teaches all men are equal, and the true value of a man therefore lies in his moral behavior, not in his class.
american_revolution: The great majority of the ~200,000 indigenous people east of the Mississippi distrusted the Americans and supported the British cause, hoping to forestall continued expansion of settlement into their territories.
american_revolution: They were especially successful in Pennsylvania but less so in New England, where John Adams attacked Thomas Paine's Common Sense for the "absurd democratical notions" that it proposed.
american_revolution: By June, nine state legislatures supported independence from Britain, and Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and New York followed.
american_revolution: Joseph Brant (also Thayendanegea), from the powerful Mohawk tribe of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, was the most prominent Indigenous leader against the Patriot forces.
american_revolution: Then the vast majority of Americans, who were loyal but cowed by the terroristic tactics ...
american_revolution: A dummy corporation run by Pierre Beaumarchais concealed their activities.
american_revolution: By 1798, the Irish were ready for a republican uprising.
american_revolution: The attack was a failure; many Americans were killed, captured, or died of smallpox.
american_revolution: Some historians and scholars argue that the subsequent wave of independence and revolutionary movements has contributed to the continued expansion of democratic government; 144 countries, representing two-third of the world's population, are full or partially democracies of some form.
american_revolution: New constitutions were drawn up in each state to supersede royal charters.
american_revolution: Northern states passed new constitutions that contained language about equal rights or specifically abolished slavery; some states, such as New York and New Jersey, where slavery was more widespread, passed laws by the end of the 18th century to abolish slavery by a gradual method.
american_revolution: The committees became the leaders of the American resistance to British actions, and later largely determined the war effort at the state and local level.
american_revolution: On September 3, 1783, the British signed the Treaty of Paris, recognizing the sovereign independence of the United States, and ceding to the new nation nearly all the territory east of the Mississippi River and south of the Great Lakes.
american_revolution: Gordon Wood states:
american_revolution: In April 1776, the North Carolina Provincial Congress issued the Halifax Resolves explicitly authorizing its delegates to vote for independence.
american_revolution: Behind them, much of the territory that they had already captured dissolved into a chaotic guerrilla war, fought predominantly between bands of Loyalists and American militia, which negated many of the gains that the British had previously made.
american_revolution: The Patriots viewed independence as a means to gain freedom from British oppression and initially to reassert their rights on par with subjects in Britain.
american_revolution: Ellis concludes that, once the Howe brothers failed, the opportunity "would never come again" for a British victory.
american_revolution: The Americans struggled to pay off the French loans; they ceased making interest payments to France in 1785 and defaulted on installments due in 1787.
american_revolution: In 1775, there was at most 12 million dollars in gold in the colonies, not nearly enough to cover current transactions, let alone finance a major war.
american_revolution: Britain created the colonies of Upper Canada (Ontario) and New Brunswick expressly for their benefit, and the Crown awarded land to Loyalists as compensation for losses in the United States.
american_revolution: Many women also acted as nurses and helpers, tending to the soldiers' wounds and buying and selling goods for them.
american_revolution: The Treaty of Alliance between the French and the Americans followed in 1778, which led to more French money, matériel and troops being sent to the United States.
american_revolution: It remained a unicameral body, where each state retained one vote.
american_revolution: These boycotts were less effective, however, as the goods taxed by the Townshend Acts were widely used.
american_revolution: There still were many Loyalists, but they were no longer in control anywhere by July 1776, and all of the royal officials had fled.
american_revolution: During the same time, 60,000 children have been born in America.
american_revolution: On November 5, 1777, the Congress approved the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union and sent it to each state for ratification.
american_revolution: Franklin Jameson examined the class composition of the Patriot cause, looking for evidence of a class war inside the revolution.
american_revolution: King George III is often accused of obstinately trying to keep Great Britain at war with the revolutionaries in America, despite the opinions of his own ministers.
american_revolution: Loyalists who left the South in 1783 took thousands of enslaved persons with them as they fled to the British West Indies.
american_revolution: These changes were radical, and they were extensive ....
american_revolution: Von Steuben's native Prussia joined the League of Armed Neutrality, and King Frederick II of Prussia was well appreciated in the United States for his support early in the war.
american_revolution: In King Philip's War (1675–1678), the New England colonies fought a coalition of a few Native American tribes without military assistance from England, thereby contributing to the development of a uniquely American identity separate from that of the British people.
american_revolution: In 1686, James finalized these efforts by consolidating the separate New England colonies along with New York and New Jersey into the Dominion of New England.
american_revolution: But the enslaved carried to the Caribbean under control of Loyalist masters generally remained enslaved until the British abolition of slavery in its colonies in 1833–1838.
american_revolution: Women contributed to the American Revolution in many ways and were involved on both sides.
american_revolution: would rise up, kick out the rebels, and restore loyal government in each colony.
american_revolution: Those who fought for independence were called "Revolutionaries", "Continentals", "Rebels", "Patriots", "Whigs", "Congress-men", or "Americans" during and after the war.
american_revolution: Patrick Henry spoke of the issue of allowing Loyalists to return as such: "Shall we, who have laid the proud British lion at our feet, be frightened of its whelps?" His actions helped secure return of the Loyalists to American soil.
american_revolution: Colonists responded to the taxes by organizing new boycotts of British goods.
american_revolution: Those who actively supported the king were known at the time as "Loyalists", "Tories", or "King's men".
american_revolution: The act increased the smuggling of foreign molasses, and the British government ceased enforcement efforts after the 1740s.
american_revolution: Numerous Loyalists had maintained strong and long-standing relations with Britain, especially merchants in port cities such as New York and Boston.
american_revolution: The national government was still operating under the Articles of Confederation and settled the issue of the western territories, which the states ceded to Congress.
american_revolution: On August 23, 1775, George III declared Americans to be traitors to the Crown if they took up arms against royal authority.
american_revolution: Her radical ideas would give ground to the conversation in allowing women to be bearers of rights alongside men – that while the rights of man were taking on a new meaning post-revolutionary America, it was time for the rights of women too.
american_revolution: Leopold von Ranke, a leading German historian, claimed in 1848 that revolutionary American republicanism played a crucial role in the development of European liberalism:
american_revolution: Wollstonecraft was an English writer, philosopher, and advocate for women's rights, and would publish the Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792) – challenging the idea that rights should only be granted to men.
american_revolution: Some migrated to Britain, but the great majority received land and subsidies for resettlement in British colonies in North America, especially Quebec (concentrating in the Eastern Townships), Prince Edward Island, and Nova Scotia.
american_revolution: Stationing troops in North America on a permanent basis would cost another £360,000 a year.
american_revolution: The Atlantic World Reborn, explores the transformations in the world's politics from 1763 to 1815, with particular attention to three revolutions in America, France, and Haiti.
american_revolution: Any European imports bound for British America had to first pass through an English port and pay customs duties.
american_revolution: They hit 11 people; three civilians died of wounds at the scene of the shooting, and two died shortly after.
american_revolution: On February 6, 1778, the United States and France signed the Treaty of Amity and Commerce and the Treaty of Alliance.
american_revolution: Meanwhile, Parliament passed the Tea Act lowering the price of taxed tea exported to the colonies, to help the British East India Company undersell smuggled untaxed Dutch tea.
american_revolution: Virginia, the largest colony, set up its Committee of Correspondence in early 1773, on which Patrick Henry and Thomas Jefferson served.
american_revolution: The crowd grew threatening, throwing snowballs, rocks, and debris at them.
american_revolution: On the other hand, certain merchants and local industries benefited from the restrictions on foreign competition.
american_revolution: It is covered in the schools, memorialized by two national holidays, Washington's Birthday in February and Independence Day in July, and commemorated in innumerable monuments.
american_revolution: The bonds were redeemed in 1791 at face value, but the scheme raised little money because Americans had little specie, and many of the richest merchants were supporters of the Crown.
american_revolution: Labaree also contended that Loyalists were pessimists who lacked the confidence in the future displayed by the Patriots.
american_revolution: The English writer Samuel Johnson wrote "how is it we hear the loudest yelps for liberty among the drivers of the Negroes?" in a text opposing the grievances of the colonists.
american_revolution: In the 1680s, Charles and his brother, James II, attempted to bring New England under direct English control.
american_revolution: The British largely abandoned their Indigenous allies, who were not a party to this treaty and did not recognize it until they were defeated militarily by the United States.
american_revolution: The British government believed that they could overawe the Americans by sending a large military and naval force:
american_revolution: After the surrender of a British army at Saratoga, both Parliament and the British people were largely in favor of the war; recruitment ran at high levels and although political opponents were vocal, they remained a small minority.
american_revolution: Discontent with colonial rule began shortly after the French and Indian War ended in 1763.
american_revolution: Lord Germain took a hard line, but the British generals on American soil never held treason trials, and instead treated captured American soldiers as prisoners of war.
american_revolution: The skyrocketing inflation was a hardship on the few people who had fixed incomes, but 90 percent of the people were farmers and were not directly affected by it.
american_revolution: Property owners elected a colonial assembly amongst themselves with powers to legislate and levy taxes, but the British government reserved the right to veto colonial legislation.
american_revolution: More than 1,200 of the Black Loyalists of Nova Scotia later resettled in the British colony of Sierra Leone in Africa, where they became leaders of the Krio ethnic group of Freetown and the later national government.
american_revolution: The war ended in 1783 and was followed by a period of slow economic recovery that accompanied the end of mercantilism and the resumption and expansion of worldwide trade.
american_revolution: The Congress struck several provisions of the Committee's draft, and then adopted it unanimously on July 4.
american_revolution: Even American historians followed suit, in spite of Colonial-era jurists drawing a distinction between auxiliaries and mercenaries, with auxiliaries serving their prince when sent to the aid of another prince, and mercenaries serving a foreign prince as individuals.
american_revolution: Facing starvation and homeless for the winter, the Iroquois that allied with the British fled to Canada.
american_revolution: Records also suggest that some slaveholders were freeing their own mixed-race children, born to enslaved mothers.
american_revolution: In the first two decades after the American Revolution, state legislatures and individuals took actions to free the enslaved, in part based on Revolutionary ideals.
american_revolution: Tens of thousands of enslaved persons escaped to British lines throughout the South, causing dramatic losses to slaveholders and disrupting cultivation and harvesting of crops.
american_revolution: Most yeomen farmers, craftsmen, and small merchants joined the Patriot cause to demand more political equality.
american_revolution: Rather than move north to support Burgoyne, the British army in New York City in fact went to Philadelphia in a major case of mis-coordination, capturing it from Washington.
american_revolution: They maintained their families during their husbands' absences and sometimes after their deaths.
american_revolution: Indeed, the soldiers and officers were given land grants in 1783 to cover the wages that they had earned but had not been paid during the war.
american_revolution: The colonies defended themselves with provincial troops and colonial militias of locals, and the British government rarely sent military forces to America before 1755.
american_revolution: Those tribes closely involved in trade tended to side with the Patriots, although political factors were important as well.
american_revolution: However, when the War of the Bavarian Succession (1778–1779) erupted, Frederick II became much more cautious with Prussian/British relations.
american_revolution: Legal divorce, usually rare, was granted to Patriot women whose husbands supported the King.
american_revolution: It was widely distributed and often read aloud in taverns, contributing significantly to concurrently spreading the ideas of republicanism and liberalism, bolstering enthusiasm for separation from Great Britain, and encouraging recruitment for the Continental Army.
american_revolution: According to British historian Jeremy Black, the British had significant advantages, including a highly trained army, the world's largest navy, and an efficient system of public finance that could easily fund the war.
american_revolution: The national government owed $40 million and state governments owed $25 million to Americans who had sold food, horses, and supplies to the Patriot forces.
american_revolution: The British Royal Navy blockaded ports and held New York City for the duration of the war, and other cities for brief periods, but failed in their effort to destroy Washington's forces.
american_revolution: Aristocrats inherited seats in the House of Lords, while the gentry and merchants controlled the elected House of Commons.
american_revolution: The Congress soon after began deliberating the Articles of Confederation, an effort to establish a multi-state self-governing coordinating body capable of negotiating international treaties and prosecuting the war.
american_revolution: Slavery became an issue that had to be addressed.
american_revolution: The king, however, would issue a Proclamation of Rebellion in August which declared that all the states were "in rebellion" and the members of Congress were traitors.
american_revolution: The British built much of their strategy around using these Loyalists.
american_revolution: In 1780, they launched a fresh invasion and took Charleston.
american_revolution: He and his father never spoke again.
american_revolution: He expressed interest in opening trade with the United States and bypassing English ports, and allowed an American agent to buy arms in Prussia.
american_revolution: Do not put such unlimited power into the hands of the Husbands.
american_revolution: In Ireland, the Protestant minority who controlled Ireland demanded self-rule.
american_revolution: They objected to their lack of representation in the Parliament, which gave them no voice concerning legislation that affected them, such as the tax, thereby violating the unwritten English constitution.
american_revolution: There were "tens of thousands" of Black Loyalists, enslaved African Americans who escaped to British lines and supported Britain's cause via several means.
american_revolution: The Dutch Republic, also at war with Britain, was the next country after France to sign a treaty with the United States, on October 8, 1782.
american_revolution: No southern state abolished slavery.
american_revolution: It did give to ordinary people a pride and power, not to say an arrogance, that have continued to shock visitors from less favored lands.
american_revolution: In 1773, Benjamin Rush, the future signer of the Declaration of Independence, called on "advocates for American liberty" to oppose slavery.
american_revolution: The Founding Fathers were strong advocates of republican values, particularly Samuel Adams, Patrick Henry, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Thomas Paine, George Washington, James Madison, and Alexander Hamilton, which required men to put civic duty ahead of their personal desires.
american_revolution: In contrast, the prevailing attitude among Patriots was a desire to seize the initiative.
american_revolution: American Patriots obtained some munitions from the Dutch Republic as well, through the French and Spanish ports in the West Indies.
american_revolution: Morris used a French loan in 1782 to set up the private Bank of North America to finance the war.
american_revolution: Bernardo de Gálvez, general of the Spanish forces in New Spain bordering the Americans, also served as governor of Louisiana.
american_revolution: Museum of the American Revolution
Revolution!
american_revolution: Inspired by the radical feminism in her work, women in the early republic would change their views on marriage, education, participation in public life, and autonomy – pushing them to lay the groundwork for the later women's suffrage movement, education opportunities, property rights, and more.
american_revolution: At that point, the Continental Congress was dissolved and a new government of the United States in Congress Assembled took its place the following day, with Samuel Huntington leading the Congress as presiding officer.
american_revolution: The Declaration embodied universal rights expressed through the political philosophies of liberalism and republicanism, rejected monarchy and aristocracy, and famously proclaimed that "all men are created equal".
american_revolution: The American Revolution was the first of the Atlantic Revolutions: followed most notably by the French Revolution, the Haitian Revolution, and the Latin American wars of independence.
american_revolution: They evacuated and resettled more than 3,000 Black Loyalists from New York to Nova Scotia, Upper Canada, and Lower Canada.
american_revolution: The blockade was lifted and American merchants were free to trade with any nation anywhere in the world.
american_revolution: Representatives from several colonies convened in New York City for the Stamp Act Congress in 1765; its "Declaration of Rights and Grievances" argued that this taxation without representation in Parliament and other policies violated their rights as Englishmen.
american_revolution: British commander Sir Henry Clinton evacuated Philadelphia and returned to New York City.
american_revolution: A total of about 7,000 to 8,000 Patriots served on these Committees; Loyalists were excluded.
american_revolution: As George III was also the Elector of Hanover, many supported the Loyalist cause and served as allies of the Kingdom of Great Britain; most notably rented auxiliary troops from German states such as the Landgraviate of Hessen-Kassel.
american_revolution: Loyalties and allegiances varied widely within regions and communities and even within families, and sometimes shifted during the Revolution.
american_revolution: On July 2, the Congress passed the Lee Resolution, affirming their support for joint independence.
american_revolution: According to mercantilism, the colonies existed for the mother country's economic benefit, and the colonists' economic needs were largely inconsequential.
american_revolution: The victories gave an important boost to Patriots at a time when morale was flagging and enlistments were ending, and they have become iconic events of the war.
american_revolution: The American Revolution ended an age—an age of monarchy.
american_revolution: All official documents, newspapers, almanacs, and pamphlets were required to have the stamps—even decks of playing cards.
american_revolution: Unable to accept loss of the war and the colonies as possibly due to anything else but widespread institutional corruption, reformers sought to root it out, and the result was a crisis from 1776 to 1783.
american_revolution: Now the idea spread that the nation should govern itself.
american_revolution: The signers of the Declaration of Independence were overwhelmingly—with definite exceptions—well-educated, of British stock, and of the Protestant faith.
american_revolution: In an effort to quell the mounting rebellion, King George III deployed British troops to the colony of Massachusetts, where they killed antagonists in the 1770 Boston Massacre.
american_revolution: Accusations that the British were encouraging slave rebellions were prominent features of Patriot propaganda, with Jefferson even accusing George III in the 27 colonial grievances of having "excited domestic Insurrections among us".
american_revolution: The Revolution had a strong, immediate influence in Great Britain, Ireland, the Netherlands, and France.
american_revolution: Significantly, the French secretly supplied the Americans with money, gunpowder, and munitions to weaken Great Britain; the subsidies continued when France entered the war in 1778, and the French government and Paris bankers lent large sums to the American war effort.
american_revolution: The king drafted an abdication notice, which was never delivered, finally accepted the defeat in North America, and authorized peace negotiations.
american_revolution: The first was the $12 million owed to foreigners, mostly money borrowed from France.
american_revolution: Moderates led by John Dickinson drew up a Declaration of Rights and Grievances stating in part that the colonists were equal to all other British subjects and that, among other abuses, taxes passed without representation in Parliament violated their rights as Englishmen.
american_revolution: The second was the Administration of Justice Act which ordered that all British soldiers to be tried were to be arraigned in Britain, not in the colonies.
american_revolution: On March 5, 1770, a large crowd gathered around a group of British soldiers on a Boston street.
american_revolution: The consensus of scholars is that about 15 to 20 percent of the white population remained loyal to the British Crown.
american_revolution: The Chickamauga Cherokee under Tsiyu Gansini (also Dragging Canoe) allied themselves closely with the British, and fought on for an additional decade after the Treaty of Paris was signed.
american_revolution: Interpretations vary concerning the effect of the Revolution.
american_revolution: Decades later, this event became known as the Boston Tea Party and remains a significant part of American patriotic lore.
american_revolution: In each of the Thirteen Colonies, American patriots overthrew their existing governments, closed courts, and drove out British colonial officials.
american_revolution: They transferred control to the United States of all the land south of the Great Lakes east of the Mississippi and north of Florida.
american_revolution: Prussia also interfered in the recruiting efforts of Russia and neighboring German states when they raised armies to send to the Americas, and Frederick II forbade enlistment for the American war within Prussia.
american_revolution: Ideas spread most rapidly when they have found adequate concrete expression.
american_revolution: Nevertheless, slavery continued in the South, where it was protected as a "peculiar institution", setting the stage for future sectional conflict between North and South over the issue.
american_revolution: The revolutionaries now fully controlled all thirteen states and ready to declare joint independence.
american_revolution: Benjamin Franklin appeared before them to make the case for repeal, explaining that the colonies had spent heavily in manpower, money, and blood defending the empire, and that further taxes to pay for those wars were unjust and might bring about a rebellion.
american_revolution: He followed Congress around for the next two years, reporting what he observed back to France.
american_revolution: The war revealed the limitations of Britain's fiscal-military state when they discovered that they suddenly faced powerful enemies with no allies, and they were dependent on extended and vulnerable transatlantic lines of communication.
american_revolution: In June 1768 a riot broke out in Boston over the seizure of the sloop Liberty, owned by John Hancock, for alleged smuggling.
american_revolution: By 1780, Congress was making requisitions for specific supplies of corn, beef, pork, and other necessities, an inefficient system which barely kept the army alive.
american_revolution: Gary Nash reports that there were about 9,000 Black veteran Patriots, counting the Continental Army and Navy, state militia units, privateers, wagoneers in the Army, servants to officers, and spies.
american_revolution: Shortly following adoption of the Stamp Act, factions of the Sons of Liberty formed in each colony, and began using public demonstrations, boycotts, and threats of violence to ensure that the offending British policies became unenforceable.
american_revolution: Many British and Irish Whigs in Parliament spoke glowingly in favor of the American cause.
american_revolution: They still had 26,000 troops occupying New York City, Charleston, and Savannah, together with a powerful fleet.
american_revolution: The Battle of Newtown proved decisive, as the Patriots had an advantage of three-to-one, and it ended significant resistance; there was little combat otherwise.
american_revolution: Parliament passed the Stamp Act in March 1765, which imposed direct taxes on the colonies for the first time.
american_revolution: A central legal concept that reinforced these restrictions was coverture, a central legal doctrine that limited women's lives in all aspects – making a woman's legal identity a part of their husband's.
american_revolution: After the Glorious Revolution, the British Empire became a constitutional monarchy with sovereignty in the King-in-Parliament.
american_revolution: Several legislatures called for united action, and nine colonies sent delegates to the Stamp Act Congress in New York City in October.
american_revolution: They were typically older, less willing to break with old loyalties, and often connected to the Church of England; they included many established merchants with strong business connections throughout the Empire, as well as royal officials such as Thomas Hutchinson of Boston.
american_revolution: They launched raids with roughly 200 warriors, as seen in the Cherokee–American wars; they could not mobilize enough forces to invade settler areas without the help of allies, most often the Creek.
american_revolution: He argues that this opportunity came only once, in the summer of 1776, where Admiral Howe and his brother General Howe "missed several opportunities to destroy the Continental Army ....
american_revolution: In May 1776, Congress voted to suppress all forms of Crown authority, to be replaced by locally created authority, and each colony created a state constitution.
american_revolution: In late eighteenth-century America, belief was still widespread in "equality by creation" and "rights by creation".
american_revolution: The Second Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia on June 14, 1775.
american_revolution: The conflict now affected North America, Europe and India.
american_revolution: They authorized formation of the Continental Army, appointing George Washington as its commander-in-chief, while producing the Olive Branch Petition in which they attempted to come to an accord with King George.
american_revolution: The Revolution became a matter of contention in the 1850s in the debates leading to the American Civil War (1861–1865), as spokesmen of both the Northern United States and the Southern United States claimed that their region was the true custodian of the legacy of 1776.
american_revolution: Some argue that the economic impact was minimal on the colonists, but the political friction that the acts triggered was more serious, as the merchants most directly affected were also the most politically active.
american_revolution: The US obtained all the land east of the Mississippi River, including southern Canada below the Great Lakes, but Spain took control of Florida from the British.
american_revolution: After the war, the great majority of the half-million Loyalists remained in America and resumed normal lives.
american_revolution: In June 1772, American patriots, including John Brown, burned a British warship that had been vigorously enforcing unpopular trade regulations, in what became known as the Gaspee Affair.
american_revolution: Heavy expenditures and a weak taxation system pushed France toward bankruptcy.
american_revolution: There will be no end of it.
american_revolution: Beginning in late December 1778, the British captured Savannah and controlled the Georgia coastline.
american_revolution: As noted by the historian Karen Cook Bell, during the Revolutionary War roughly one-third of all the escaped enslaved were women, even though prior to 1775 nearly 87% had been men.
american_revolution: The Patriots assembled a militia 15,000 strong and laid siege to Boston, occupied by 6500 British soldiers.
american_revolution: This would have reduced the influence of colonial representatives over their government.
american_revolution: The Treasury believed it would generate £78,000.
american_revolution: From Boston Samuel Adams set about creating new Committees of Correspondence, built largely on the foundations of the underground Sons of Liberty network, linking Patriots in all 13 colonies and eventually providing the framework for a provisional government.
american_revolution: And, it began a new age—an age of freedom.
american_revolution: It did displace the deference, the patronage, the social divisions that had determined the way people viewed one another for centuries and still view one another in much of the world.
american_revolution: Formal politics did not include women, but ordinary domestic behaviors became charged with political significance as Patriot women confronted a war which permeated all aspects of political, civil, and domestic life.
american_revolution: There must be a positive Passion for the public good, the public Interest, Honour, Power, and Glory, established in the Minds of the People, or there can be no Republican Government, nor any real Liberty.
american_revolution: Colonial governments reasserted their control after the revolt.
american_revolution: The French army and navy departed, so the Americans were on their own in 1782–83.
american_revolution: The existence of slavery in the American colonies had attracted criticism from both sides of the Atlantic as many could not reconcile the existence of the institution with the egalitarian ideals espoused by leaders of the Revolution.
american_revolution: In 1790, Congress combined the remaining state debts with the foreign and domestic debts into one national debt totaling $80 million at the recommendation of first Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton.
american_revolution: The Articles were fully ratified on March 1, 1781.
american_revolution: In early 1783, George III privately conceded "America is lost!" He reflected that the former colonies had developed into Britain's "successful rivals" in commercial trade and fishing as the United States.
american_revolution: On December 16, 1773, a group of men, led by Samuel Adams and dressed to evoke the appearance of Indigenous people, boarded the ships of the East India Company and dumped £10,000 worth of tea from their holds (approximately £636,000 in 2008) into Boston Harbor.
american_revolution: The National Park Service alone manages and maintains more than 50 battlefield parks and many other sites such as Independence Hall that are related to the Revolution.
american_revolution: The French fleet was able to outrun the British naval blockade of the Mediterranean and sailed to North America.
american_revolution: They argued that the colonies were legally British corporations subordinate to the British Parliament.
american_revolution: The American treasury was empty, and the unpaid soldiers were growing restive, almost to the point of mutiny or possible coup d'etat.
american_revolution: Most Indigenous people rejected pleas that they remain neutral and instead supported the British Crown.
american_revolution: The Revolution was in the minds and hearts of the people ....
american_revolution: Mary Wollstonecraft pioneered the discussion regarding women's rights, and push those like Abigail Adams to begin expressing the desire to want a larger place in society.
american_revolution: The Revolution not only radically changed the personal and social relationships of people, including the position of women, but also destroyed aristocracy as it'd been understood in the Western world for at least two millennia.
american_revolution: The British government responded by passing four laws that came to be known as the Intolerable Acts, further darkening colonial opinion towards England.
american_revolution: Due to a lack of regular troops at their disposal compared to the Americans, the British commanders saw the "southern strategy" as a more viable plan.
american_revolution: This radical change in the principles, opinions, sentiments, and affections of the people was the real American Revolution.
american_revolution: In 1767, the British Parliament passed the Townshend Acts, which placed duties on several staple goods, including paper, glass, and tea, and established a Board of Customs in Boston to more rigorously execute trade regulations.
american_revolution: Colonial reactions to these policies were mixed.
american_revolution: The number of free Blacks as a proportion of the Black population in the upper South increased from less than 1 percent to nearly 10 percent between 1790 and 1810 as a result of these actions.
american_revolution: Having a woman who was dressed well for her role as a good wife and mother as well as fitting the social role, was a symbol of not only status, but a family devoted to the republic.
american_revolution: At the peace conference following the war, the British ceded lands which they did not really control, without consultation with their Indigenous allies that inhabited them.
american_revolution: In most instances, the consignees were forced by the Americans to resign and the tea was turned back, but Massachusetts governor Hutchinson refused to allow Boston merchants to give in to pressure.
american_revolution: Special consignees were appointed to sell the tea to bypass colonial merchants.
american_revolution: For the first time, the Patriots were armed and unified against Parliament.
american_revolution: Edmund Andros was appointed royal governor and tasked with governing the new Dominion under his direct rule.
american_revolution: Even though the colonies had fought in and supported the war directly with troops, funds and material, the British Parliament imposed new taxes to ostensibly compensate for wartime costs, and transferred control of the colonies' western lands to British officials in Montreal.
american_revolution: The British strategy now concentrated on a campaign in the southern states.
american_revolution: Losing the war and the Thirteen Colonies was a shock to Britain.
american_revolution: It also began coordinating Patriot resistance by militias in each colony, including many veterans who had gained military experience in the French and Indian War.
american_revolution: Colonists, primarily Southern Patriots, were deeply angered by Dunmore's proclamation, which spread through all of the Thirteen Colonies and threatened to upturn the existing American racial hierarchy; it also played a major role in Southern support for American independence.
american_revolution: The United States no longer owed money to foreign governments, although it continued to owe money to private investors both in the United States and in Europe..
american_revolution: On April 3, 1783, Ambassador Extraordinary Gustaf Philip Creutz, representing King Gustav III of Sweden, and Benjamin Franklin, signed a Treaty of Amity and Commerce with the U.S.
american_revolution: The American Revolution (1765–1789) was a political movement in the Thirteen Colonies of Great Britain.
american_revolution: They returned in force in July 1776, landing in New York and defeating Washington's Continental Army toe-to-toe in August at the Battle of Brooklyn, the largest battle of the war.
american_revolution: The American revolutionaries associated political corruption with ostentatious luxury and inherited aristocracy.
american_revolution: Parliament responded by enacting a series of punitive laws, intended to end self-government in Massachusetts, but instead increased American support for the revolutionary cause.
american_revolution: Approximately 46,000 Loyalists relocated to Canada; others moved to Britain (7,000), Florida, or the West Indies (9,000).
american_revolution: The first shot of the American Revolution at the Battle of Lexington and Concord is referred to as the "shot heard 'round the world".
american_revolution: Calloway concludes:
american_revolution: States such as New Jersey and New York adopted gradual emancipation, which kept some people as slaves for more than two decades longer.
american_revolution: The American interpretation of republicanism was inspired by the Whig party in Great Britain which openly criticized the corruption within the British government.
american_revolution: Until then, a king who ruled by the grace of God had been the center around which everything turned.
american_revolution: On the same day he introduced the Sugar Act in Parliament, Grenville stated it might be necessary to levy stamp duties on the colonies to raise additional revenue, but he delayed action to give the colonies time to propose another way to raise the revenue.
american_revolution: In January 1769, Parliament responded to the unrest by reactivating the Treason Act 1543 which called for subjects outside the realm to face trials for treason in England.
american_revolution: This accelerated the downward spiral in the relationship between Britain and the province of Massachusetts, and other colonies were becoming increasingly empathetic.
american_revolution: In the Siege of Boston, Washington forced the British out of the city in the spring of 1776, and neither the British nor the Loyalists controlled any significant areas.
american_revolution: The king went so far as to draft letters of abdication, although they were never delivered.
american_revolution: Other German individuals came to assist the American revolutionaries, most notably Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben, who served as a general in the Continental Army and is credited with professionalizing that force, but most Germans who served were already colonists.
american_revolution: After an inconclusive engagement, the British retreated to New York City.
american_revolution: The colonists did not object that the taxes were high; they were actually low.
american_revolution: The British also took New Jersey, pushing the Continental Army into Pennsylvania.
american_revolution: In 1777, Charles François Adrien le Paulmier, Chevalier d'Annemours, acting as a secret agent for France, made sure General George Washington was privy to his mission.
american_revolution: In early 1778, Britain's chief rival France signed a treaty of alliance with the United States, and the confrontation soon escalated from a "rebellion" to something that has been characterized as "world war".
american_revolution: All Prussian roads were denied to troops from Anhalt-Zerbst, which delayed reinforcements that Howe had hoped to receive during the winter of 1777–1778.
american_revolution: The arrival in Boston of the British Army heightened their sense of violated rights, leading to rage and demands for revenge.
american_revolution: Congress used four main methods to cover the cost of the war, which cost about 66 million dollars in specie (gold and silver).
american_revolution: According to historian Robert Calhoon, 40 to 45 percent of the white population in the Thirteen Colonies supported the Patriots' cause, 15 to 20 percent supported the Loyalists, and the remainder were neutral or kept a low profile.
american_revolution: The Parliament at Westminster saw itself as the supreme lawmaking authority throughout the Empire and thus entitled to enact any legislation, including levying any tax, without colonial approval or even consultation.
american_revolution: As a result of the growing wave started by the Revolution, there are now more people around the world living in freedom than ever before, both in absolute numbers and as a percentage of the world's population.
american_revolution: Most kept a low profile, but the Quakers were the most important group to speak out for neutrality, especially in Pennsylvania.
american_revolution: In Europe the conflict between them had not yet taken on concrete form; with the French Revolution it did.
american_revolution: The new states were all committed to republicanism, with no inherited offices.
american_revolution: <www.benfranklinsworld.com>
Library of Congress Guide to the American Revolution
Worlds Turned Upside Down podcast
"Hessians:" German Soldiers in the American Revolutionary War.
american_revolution: The revolution could divide families, such as William Franklin, son of Benjamin Franklin and royal governor of the Province of New Jersey who remained loyal to the Crown throughout the war.
american_revolution: Britain began to view the American Revolutionary War as merely one front in a wider war, and the British chose to withdraw troops from America to reinforce the British colonies in the Caribbean, which were under threat of Spanish or French invasion.
american_revolution: In 1774, as part of a broader non-importation movement aimed at Britain, the Continental Congress called on all the colonies to ban the importation of enslaved people, and the colonies passed acts doing so.
american_revolution: Britain had a sophisticated financial system based on the wealth of thousands of landowners who supported the government, together with banks and financiers in London.
american_revolution: One partial solution was to rely on volunteer support from militiamen and donations from patriotic citizens.
american_revolution: The American government issued bonds in the amount of the remaining debt and sold them publicly, with the proceeds going to France through Swan.
american_revolution: The British made the situation much worse by imposing a tight blockade on every American port, which cut off almost all trade.
american_revolution: However, as noted by the historian James Corbett David, many Black people felt unable or unwilling to respond to these offers of freedom:
american_revolution: Levi Preston of Danvers, Massachusetts, who was asked why the Americans rebelled against England, responded: "...we always had governed ourselves, and we always meant to.
american_revolution: From these data his mathematical head will easily calculate the time and expense necessary to kill us all.
american_revolution: declared that all men, "white or black", were "by the law of nature" born free.
american_revolution: In response, "Starting in August 1774, each time a court was slated to meet in some Massachusetts town, great numbers of angry citizens made sure it did not".
american_revolution: As historian Christopher L.
american_revolution: Phyllis Wheatley, an African American poet, popularized the image of Columbia to represent America.
american_revolution: It surrendered to the Americans after the Battles of Saratoga in October 1777.
american_revolution: Legacy of the struggle for independence and democracy.
american_revolution: Newspapers were strongholds of patriotism (although there were a few Loyalist papers) and printed many pamphlets, announcements, patriotic letters, and pronouncements.
american_revolution: But it generated the egalitarian view of human society that makes them troubling and makes our world so different from the one in which the revolutionists had grown up.
american_revolution: Up to this point, the conviction had prevailed in Europe that monarchy best served the interests of the nation.
american_revolution: The Treasury borrowed 40 percent of the money that it needed.
american_revolution: In that period the Puritan colonies of New England supported the Commonwealth government responsible for the execution of King Charles I.
american_revolution: In addition, British soldiers were supposed to help collect customs duties and prevent colonists from instigating conflict with Native Americans.
american_revolution: A new ministry under Lord North came to power in 1770, and Parliament repealed most of the Townshend duties, except the tax on tea.
american_revolution: Rhode Island and Connecticut simply took their existing royal charters and deleted all references to the Crown.
american_revolution: The Loyalists never controlled territory unless the British Army occupied it.
american_revolution: A convention assembled but only issued a mild protest before dissolving itself.
american_revolution: More recent historians have largely abandoned that interpretation, emphasizing instead the high level of ideological unity.
american_revolution: The following year, the Congress passed the Lee Resolution on July 2nd, then unanimously adopted the Declaration of Independence on the Fourth of July.
american_revolution: When James tried to rule without Parliament, the English aristocracy removed him from power in the Glorious Revolution of 1688.
american_revolution: The Americans heavily relied on Montesquieu's analysis of the wisdom of the "balanced" British Constitution (mixed government) in writing the state and national constitutions.
american_revolution: Lord North was allied to the "King's Friends" faction in Parliament and believed George III had the right to exercise extensive powers.
american_revolution: The war expenses of the individual states added up to $114 million, compared to $37 million by the central government.
american_revolution: Spain did not officially recognize the United States, but it was a French ally and it separately declared war on Britain on June 21, 1779.
american_revolution: The invasion army from Canada was much too slow and became trapped in northern New York state.
american_revolution: Historians such as Bernard Bailyn, Gordon Wood, and Edmund Morgan view it as a unique and radical event which produced deep changes and had a profound effect on world affairs, such as an increasing belief in the principles of the Enlightenment.
american_revolution: In 1777, the British sent Burgoyne's invasion force from Canada south through New York with the aim of isolating New England to the east, which the British perceived as the primary source of agitation.
american_revolution: As discussions rose regarding the rights of man post Revolutionary war, women began pushing a debate for the rights of women as well.
american_revolution: In December 1773, the local faction of the colonies-wide Sons of Liberty underground orchestrated the Boston Tea Party, during which they dumped chests of taxed tea owned by the British East India Company into Boston Harbor.
american_revolution: In May 1776, Congress voted to suppress all forms of Crown authority, to be replaced by locally created authority.
american_revolution: John Locke is often referred to as "the philosopher of the American Revolution" due to his work in the Social Contract and Natural Rights theories that underpinned the Revolution's political ideology.
american_revolution: The British attempted to disarm the colonists, resulting in the Battles of Lexington and Concord, sparking the Revolutionary War.
american_revolution: Most Quakers remained neutral, although a sizeable number participated to some degree.
american_revolution: Constitution, drafted shortly after independence, remains the world's oldest written constitution, and has been emulated by other countries, in some cases verbatim.
american_revolution: Washington dispelled the unrest among officers of the Newburgh Conspiracy in 1783, and Congress subsequently created the promise of a five years bonus for all officers.
american_revolution: King George III declared Massachusetts to be in a state of rebellion in February 1775 and the British garrison received orders to seize the rebels' weapons and arrest their leaders, resulting in the Battles of Lexington and Concord on April 19, 1775.
american_revolution: Another was to delay actual payments, pay soldiers and suppliers in depreciated currency, and promise that it would be made good after the war.
american_revolution: There was no order to fire, but the soldiers panicked and fired into the crowd.
american_revolution: John Dickinson however, in his widely read pamphlet Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania, argued against the constitutionality of the acts because their purpose was to raise revenue and not to regulate trade.
american_revolution: Independence War a Conservative Revolt in Favor of Slavery?
american_revolution: Starting in 1776, the Congress sought to raise money by loans from wealthy individuals, promising to redeem the bonds after the war.
american_revolution: In London the British had relatively little difficulty financing their war, keeping their suppliers and soldiers paid, and hiring tens of thousands of German soldiers.
american_revolution: Washington crossed the Delaware River back into New Jersey in a surprise attack in late December 1776 and defeated the Hessian and British garrisons at Trenton and Princeton, thereby regaining control of most of New Jersey.
american_revolution: Aftershocks contributed to rebellions in Ireland, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, and the Netherlands.
american_revolution: A growing number of American colonists embraced these views and fostered an intellectual environment which led to a new sense of political and social identity.
american_revolution: However, the British did sell them munitions and maintained forts in American territory until the Jay Treaty of 1795.
american_revolution: Throughout the colonies, dissenting Protestant ministers from the Congregational, Baptist, and Presbyterian churches preached Revolutionary themes in their sermons while most Church of England clergymen preached loyalty to the king, the titular head of the English state church.
american_revolution: Loyalists tended to feel that resistance to the Crown was morally wrong, while the Patriots thought that morality was on their side.
american_revolution: In 1790, however, they resumed regular payments on their debts to the French.
american_revolution: Despite the turmoil of the period, African-Americans contributed to the foundation of an American national identity during the Revolution.
american_revolution: As Benjamin Franklin wrote to Joseph Priestley in October 1775: Britain, at the expense of three millions, has killed 150 Yankees this campaign, which is £20,000 a head ...
american_revolution: Many Loyalists wanted to take a centrist position and resisted the Patriots' demand to declare their opposition to the Crown.
american_revolution: Customs officials could choose whether to prosecute violators in colonial courts or vice admiralty courts.
american_revolution: The first was the Massachusetts Government Act which altered the Massachusetts charter and restricted town meetings.
american_revolution: John Adams wrote to Mercy Otis Warren in 1776, agreeing with some classical Greek and Roman thinkers: "Public Virtue cannot exist without private, and public Virtue is the only Foundation of Republics." He continued:
american_revolution: Both Loyalists and Patriots were a "mixed lot", but ideological demands always came first.
american_revolution: The governor dissolved the assembly when it refused to rescind the letter.
american_revolution: A woman's loyalty to her husband could become an open political act, especially for women in America committed to men who remained loyal to the King.
american_revolution: In February 1768, the Assembly of Massachusetts Bay Colony issued a circular letter to the other colonies urging them to coordinate resistance.
american_revolution: Benjamin Franklin, postmaster general for the colonies, acknowledged that he leaked the letters, which led to him being removed from his position.
american_revolution: Hundreds of Black men responded and were formed into the Royal Ethiopian Regiment.
american_revolution: In 1769, the women of Boston produced 40,000 skeins of yarn, and 180 women in Middletown, Massachusetts wove 20,522 yards (18,765 m) of cloth.
american_revolution: For many Europeans, such as the Marquis de Lafayette, who later were active during the era of the French Revolution, the American case along with the Dutch Revolt (end of the 16th century) and the 17th century English Civil War, was among the examples of overthrowing an old regime.
american_revolution: These two principles are like two opposite poles, and it is the conflict between them that determines the course of the modern world.
american_revolution: Frederick predicted American success, and promised to recognize the United States and American diplomats once France did the same.
american_revolution: Consensus in Parliament soon shifted to the war ending on American terms.
american_revolution: Under the leadership of Henry Grattan, the Irish Patriot Party forced the reversal of mercantilist prohibitions against trade with other British colonies.
american_revolution: Some became prominent American leaders, such as Samuel Seabury.
american_revolution: Unlike colonial courts where there was a presumption of innocence and cases were decided by local juries who frequently acquitted accused smugglers, vice admiralty courts operated on a presumption of guilt and cases were decided by Crown-appointed judges.
american_revolution: Howe demanded that the Americans retract the Declaration of Independence, which they refused to do, and negotiations ended.
american_revolution: On March 9, 1764, Grenville proposed the Sugar Act, which was enacted by Parliament in April.
american_revolution: Locke's Two Treatises of Government published in 1689 was especially influential.
american_revolution: By this distinction the troops which served in the American Revolution were auxiliaries.
american_revolution: To ensure this money could be collected, the act strengthened efforts against smuggling.
american_revolution: One soldier was clubbed and fell.
american_revolution: The British provided arms to Indigenous people who were led by Loyalists in war parties to raid frontier settlements from the Carolinas to New York.
american_revolution: This act was particularly egregious to the New England colonists, who protested it as unconstitutional taxation without representation in the British parliament.
american_revolution: The governor of Massachusetts was instructed to collect evidence of said treason, and the threat caused widespread outrage, though it was not carried out.
american_revolution: Parliament insisted that the colonists effectively enjoyed a "virtual representation", as most British people did, since only a small minority of the British population were eligible to elect representatives to Parliament.
american_revolution: And this public Passion must be Superior to all private Passions.
american_revolution: The king ruled through cabinet ministers who depended on majority support in the Commons to govern effectively.
american_revolution: Before the Revolution, the Southern Colonies and three of the New England Colonies had official established churches: Congregational in Massachusetts Bay, Connecticut, and New Hampshire, and the Church of England in Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia.
american_revolution: Thus republicanism entered our Romanic/Germanic world...
american_revolution: Women in the early republic had many limitations – they could not vote, hold political office, earn fair wages, lacked opportunities for higher education and certain professions, and most importantly, own property independently of their husbands.
american_revolution: This temporarily resolved the crisis, and the boycott of British goods largely ceased, with only the more radical patriots such as Samuel Adams continuing to agitate.
american_revolution: The dilemma was that tens of thousands of Loyalists were under American control and American retaliation would have been easy.
american_revolution: The British political establishment, especially after taking massive swaths of land from the former territories of New France, pursued a policy of greater control over colonial affairs, prompting the Thirteen Colonies to seek restoration of greater autonomy from Britain.
american_revolution: Convinced that the Revolution was the work of a full few miscreants who had rallied an armed rabble to their cause, they expected that the revolutionaries would be intimidated ....
american_revolution: In order to allow approximately 1,500 politically well-connected British Army officers to remain on active duty in America with full pay after the war, the Bute ministry decided in early 1763 to permanently garrison 10,000 soldiers in North America.
american_revolution: The Crown appointed a royal governor in each colony to exercise executive power, usually also appointing a Governor's Council largely to act as an unelected upper chamber of the legislature.
american_revolution: During negotiations in Paris, the American delegation discovered that France supported American independence but no territorial gains, hoping to confine the new nation to the area east of the Appalachian Mountains.
american_revolution: The event quickly came to be called the Boston Massacre.
american_revolution: Not enough Loyalists turned out, however, and the British had to fight their way north into North Carolina and Virginia with a severely weakened army.
american_revolution: Nevertheless, approximately eighty-five percent of the Loyalists stayed in the United States as American citizens, and some of the exiles later returned to the U.S.
american_revolution: The new administration under President George Washington took office in New York in March 1789 and the new bicameral Congress of the United States was seated.
american_revolution: A minority of uncertain size tried to stay neutral in the war.
american_revolution: John Witherspoon, who was considered a "new light" Presbyterian, wrote widely circulated sermons linking the American Revolution to the teachings of the Bible.
american_revolution: It tends to confound and destroy all distinctions, and prostrate all ranks, to one common level[.]
The resulting constitutions in states, including those of Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York, and Virginia featured:
american_revolution: The United States became the first nation to establish a federal republic with a written constitution based on the principles of universal natural rights, consent of the governed, and equality under the law, albeit with significant democratic limitations compared to later evolution of the concept.
american_revolution: In March 1776, aided by the fortification of Dorchester Heights with cannons recently captured at Fort Ticonderoga, the Continental Army led by George Washington forced the British to evacuate Boston.
american_revolution: Gathered at Pennsylvania State House in Philadelphia, later renamed Independence Hall, 56 of the nation's Founding Fathers representing the United Colonies adopted and issued to King George III the Declaration of Independence.
american_revolution: Chance, luck, and even the vagaries of the weather played crucial roles." Ellis's point is that the strategic and tactical decisions of the Howes were fatally flawed because they underestimated the challenges posed by the Patriots.
american_revolution: In response, the Grenville ministry issued the Royal Proclamation of 1763, designating the territory between the Appalachian Mountains and the Mississippi River an Indian Reserve closed to colonial settlement.
american_revolution: Others sailed with the British to England or were resettled as freedmen in the West Indies of the Caribbean.
american_revolution: There was general agreement to pay the foreign debts at full value.
american_revolution: The excuse made for a standing army in America was defense against French troops stationed in the West Indies, and foreign populations in newly acquired territories (the French in Canada and the Spanish in Florida).
american_revolution: Throughout most of the war, the outcome appeared uncertain.
american_revolution: They didn't mean we should."
american_revolution: New claims will arise.
american_revolution: What had begun as a rebellion demanding the rights of Englishmen had now evolved into a revolution to overthrow and replace the political and social order in America based on universal rights.
american_revolution: The fleet did arrive, but so did a larger French fleet.
american_revolution: He argued that all humans were created equally free, and governments therefore needed the "consent of the governed".
american_revolution: The Treaties of Paris, by which Britain recognized the sovereignty of the United States and returned Florida to Spain, were signed in 1782 and 1783 respectively.
american_revolution: Richard Henry Lee was instructed by the Virginia legislature to propose independence, and he did so on June 7, 1776.
american_revolution: Free Blacks in the New England Colonies and Middle Colonies in the North as well as Southern Colonies fought on both sides of the War, but the majority fought for the Patriots.
american_revolution: John Murrin, by contrast, argues that the definition of "the people" at that time was mostly restricted to free men who passed a property qualification.
american_revolution: The King and his cabinet in London could not risk another rebellion, and so made a series of concessions to the Patriot faction in Dublin.
american_revolution: The Spanish and the Dutch became allies of the French in 1779 and 1780 respectively, forcing the British to fight a global war without major allies, and requiring it to slip through a combined blockade of the Atlantic.
american_revolution: The theory of the social contract influenced the belief among many of the Founders that the right of the people to overthrow their leaders, should those leaders betray the historic rights of Englishmen, was one of the "natural rights" of man.
american_revolution: The greatest challenge to the old order in Europe was the challenge to inherited political power and the democratic idea that government rests on the consent of the governed.
american_revolution: However, enslavers could grant freedom to individuals they enslaved.
american_revolution: At the conclusion of the war, British forces gave transportation to 10,000 of the formerly enslaved when they evacuated Savannah and Charles Town, carrying through on their promise.
american_revolution: By 1804, all the northern states had passed laws outlawing slavery, either immediately or over time.
american_revolution: By abandoning English constitutionalism and creating a new republic based on the rights of the individual, the North Americans introduced a new force in the world.
american_revolution: Tens of thousands of Loyalists left the United States following the war; Philip Ranlet estimates 20,000, while Maya Jasanoff estimates as many as 70,000.
american_revolution: They convinced the Congress of the Confederation to call the Philadelphia Convention in 1787.
american_revolution: Concepts of liberty, consent of the governed, individual rights, equality and due process under the law, and intolerance of corruption became incorporated as core values of liberal republicanism.
american_revolution: The next month Patriots issued the Suffolk Resolves and formed an alternative shadow government known as the Massachusetts Provincial Congress, which began training militia outside British-occupied Boston.
american_revolution: It gained fishing rights off Canadian coasts, and agreed to allow British merchants and Loyalists to recover their property.
american_revolution: New-York Historical Society
132 historic photographs dealing with the personalities, monuments, weapons and locations of the American Revolution; these are pre-1923 and out of copyright.
american_revolution: James Madison spearheaded Congressional legislation proposing amendments to the Constitution as assurances to those cautious about federal power, guaranteeing many of the inalienable rights that formed a foundation for the revolution.
american_revolution: But only after a state had actually been formed on the basis of the theory of representation did the full significance of this idea become clear.
american_revolution: For instance, South Carolina was estimated to have lost about 25,000 enslaved persons to flight, migration, or death which amounted to a third of its enslaved population.
american_revolution: They made the city their main political and military base of operations, holding the strategic harbor and port until November 1783.
american_revolution: A town meeting in Boston determined that the tea would not be landed, and ignored a demand from the governor to disperse.
american_revolution: After the Stuart Restoration of 1660, Massachusetts did not recognize Charles II as the legitimate king for more than a year after his coronation.
american_revolution: Prime Minister Shelburne foresaw highly profitable two-way trade between Britain and the rapidly growing United States, which did come to pass.
american_revolution: The American Revolution was integral to the changes occurring in American society, politics and culture ....
american_revolution: Roughly 20,000 enslaved persons fought in the American Revolution.
american_revolution: Everyone received face value for wartime certificates, so that the national honor would be sustained and the national credit established.
american_revolution: Ethnic Germans served on both sides of the American Revolutionary War.
american_revolution: Following that victory, and poised to take New York City, they requested a meeting with representatives from Congress to negotiate an end to hostilities.
american_revolution: The French were victorious in the Battle of the Chesapeake, and the British fleet returned to New York for reinforcements, leaving Cornwallis trapped.
american_revolution: This was followed by the 1689 Boston revolt, which overthrew Dominion rule.
american_revolution: Radical Whig ideology profoundly influenced colonial American political philosophy with its love of liberty and opposition to tyrannical government.
american_revolution: The British army under Cornwallis marched to Yorktown, Virginia, where they expected to be rescued by a British fleet.
american_revolution: After the American Revolution one Patriot, Capt.
american_revolution: In September 1774, the First Continental Congress convened in Pennsylvania, consisting of representatives from each colony, to serve as a vehicle for deliberation and collective action.
american_revolution: The colonists fiercely opposed this, and the Crown nullified their colonial charters in response.
american_revolution: Above all, women continued the agricultural work at home to feed their families and the armies.
american_revolution: These changes were the outcome of the associated American Revolutionary War.
american_revolution: William Pitt spoke out in Parliament urging Britain to make peace with the Americans and to unite against France, while British politicians who had sympathized with colonial grievances now turned against the Americans for allying with Britain's rival and enemy.
american_revolution: They also imported molasses, rum, and sugar from the British West Indies.
american_revolution: The Thirteen Colonies could trade with the rest of the empire but only ship certain commodities like tobacco to Britain.
american_revolution: In every colony demonstrators warned merchants not to bring in tea that included the hated new tax.
american_revolution: Some of these camp followers even participated in combat, such as Madam John Turchin who led her husband's regiment into battle.
american_revolution: With the early setbacks in America, Lord North asked to transfer power to Lord Chatham, whom he thought more capable, but George refused to do so; he suggested instead that Chatham serve as a subordinate minister in North's administration, but Chatham refused.
american_revolution: The British then seized New York City and nearly captured Washington's army.
american_revolution: They included a full range of social and economic classes but were unanimous regarding the need to defend the natural rights of Americans and uphold the principles of republicanism in rejecting monarchy and aristocracy, while emphasizing civic virtue by citizens.
american_revolution: Chief among the ideas of the American Enlightenment were the concepts of natural law, natural rights, consent of the governed, self-determination, equality under the law, 
liberalism, republicanism, and intolerance of political corruption.
american_revolution: The Constitution took effect in 1789 and the Bill of Rights was ratified in 1791.
american_revolution: The first issue amounted to 242 million dollars.
american_revolution: In sharp contrast, Congress and the American states had no end of difficulty financing the war.
american_revolution: By 1780, the paper money was so devalued that the phrase "not worth a Continental" became synonymous with valueless.
american_revolution: In 1779, the Continental Army forced the hostile Indigenous people out of upstate New York when Washington sent an army under John Sullivan which destroyed 40 evacuated Iroquois villages in central and western New York.
american_revolution: This allowed the young United States to place itself on a sound financial footing.
american_revolution: King George wanted to fight on, but his supporters lost control of Parliament and the British launched no further offensives in America on the eastern seaboard.
american_revolution: The United States and France were joined by Spain in 1779 and the Dutch Republic, while Britain had no major allies of its own, except for the Loyalist minority in America and German auxiliaries (i.e.
american_revolution: The new United States government was empowered to undertake its own project of territorial expansion and settler colonialism.
american_revolution: The third was the Boston Port Act, which closed the port of Boston until the British had been compensated for the tea lost in the Boston Tea Party.
american_revolution: The American Revolution has a central place in the American memory as the story of the nation's founding.
american_revolution: According to historian Robert Middlekauff, "Americans had become almost completely self-governing" before the American Revolution, a practice that was consistent with the British monarchy's practice of salutary neglect.
american_revolution: Many of their descendants still live in Sierra Leone, as well as other African countries.
american_revolution: In addition, they held little legal powers in subjects such as divorce, property rights, and child custody.
american_revolution: During secret debates, conservative Joseph Galloway proposed the creation of a colonial Parliament that would be able to approve or disapprove acts of the British Parliament, but his idea was tabled in a vote of 6 to 5 and was subsequently removed from the record.
american_revolution: Americans were increasingly embracing republican values, seeing Britain as corrupt and hostile to American interests.
american_revolution: Recent immigrants who had not been fully Americanized were also inclined to support the King.
american_revolution: After the Glorious Revolution in Great Britain, it unofficially adopted a policy of "salutary neglect," whereby the Thirteen Colonies were largely left to govern themselves.
american_revolution: The rights of the people were incorporated into state constitutions.
american_revolution: On a per capita basis, Grenville claimed Americans paid 1 shilling in taxes directly to the empire (not including local taxes) compared to 26 shillings paid by the English.
american_revolution: In addition, the democratic ideals of the Revolution inspired changes in the roles of women.
american_revolution: Many women gathered food, money, clothes, and other supplies during the war to help the soldiers.
american_revolution: However, in 1781, a decisive victory by Washington and the Continental Army in the Siege of Yorktown led King George III and the Fox–North coalition in government to negotiate the cessation of colonial rule and the acknowledgment of American sovereignty, formalized in the Treaty of Paris in 1783.
american_revolution: This was the complete reversal of a principle.
american_revolution: The Thirteen Colonies were established in the 17th century as part of the English Empire and became parts of the British Empire after the union of England and Scotland in 1707.
american_revolution: Instead, British officials negotiated and compromised with colonial leaders to gain compliance with imperial policies.
american_revolution: Crispus Attucks, of mixed racial heritage, was one of the five people killed in the Boston Massacre in 1770 and is considered the first American casualty for the cause of independence.
american_revolution: British Prime Minister Lord Shelburne was in charge of the British negotiations, and he saw a chance to make the United States a valuable economic partner, facilitating trade and investment opportunities.
american_revolution: The new monarchs, William and Mary, granted new charters to the individual New England colonies.
american_revolution: Historians continue to debate whether the odds were long or short for American victory.
american_revolution: On January 5, 1776, New Hampshire ratified the first state constitution.
american_revolution: British subjects on both sides of the Atlantic proudly claimed that the unwritten British constitution, with its guarantees of the rights of Englishmen, protected personal liberty better than any other government.
american_revolution: The Revolution was effected before the war commenced.
american_revolution: The American Enlightenment was a critical precursor of the American Revolution.
american_revolution: It may have left standing a host of inequalities that have troubled us ever since.
american_revolution: Mark Lender concludes that ordinary people became insurgents against the British because they held a sense of rights which the British were violating, rights that stressed local autonomy, fair dealing, and government by consent.
american_revolution: American Patriots tended to represent such troops as mercenaries in propaganda against the British Crown.
american_revolution: ships were denied access to Prussian ports, and Frederick refused to officially recognize the United States until they had signed the Treaty of Paris.
american_revolution: The act was opposed by those who resisted the taxes and also by smugglers who stood to lose business.
american_revolution: Democracy Now!
american_revolution: Women will demand a vote.
american_revolution: Mercy Otis Warren held meetings in her house and cleverly attacked Loyalists with her creative plays and histories.
american_revolution: In anticipation of a coordinated British attack on the de facto revolutionary capital of Philadelphia, the Continental Congress was forced to temporarily depart Philadelphia in September for Baltimore, where they continued deliberations.
american_revolution: The movement began as a rebellion and evolved into a revolution resulting in the sovereign United States.
american_revolution: Paine presented the Revolution as the solution for Americans alarmed by the threat of tyranny.
american_revolution: The revolution became a personal issue for the king, fueled by his growing belief that British leniency would be taken as weakness by the Americans.
american_revolution: In 1778 and 1780, he led 300 Iroquois warriors and 100 white Loyalists in multiple attacks on small frontier settlements in New York and Pennsylvania, killing many settlers and destroying villages, crops, and food stockpiles.
american_revolution: Congress also made issues of paper money, known colloquially as "Continental Dollars", in 1775–1780 and in 1780–1781.
american_revolution: Anti-slavery calls became more common in the early 1770s.
american_revolution: The fourth was the Quartering Act of 1774, which allowed royal governors to house British troops in the homes of citizens without permission of the owner.
american_revolution: The Proclamation angered settlers, fur traders, and land speculators; however, it failed to stop westward migration.
american_revolution: Washington intercepted him in the Battle of Monmouth Court House, the last major battle fought in the north.
american_revolution: The British government pursued this policy of mercantilism in order to grow its economic and political power.
american_revolution: Thomas Paine called it a constitution unworthy of America.
american_revolution: The Constitution was ratified in 1788, after a fierce debate in the states over the proposed new government.
american_revolution: The spirit of the Declaration of Independence led to laws ending slavery in all the Northern states and the Northwest Territory, with New Jersey the last in 1804.
american_revolution: Accounts with the French government were settled in 1795 when James Swan, an American banker acting as agent for France, helped refinance the United States’ remaining debt to France.
american_revolution: There were thousands of British and Hessian soldiers in American hands following their surrender at the Battles of Saratoga.
american_revolution: In the mid-20th century, historian Leonard Woods Labaree identified eight characteristics of the Loyalists that made them essentially conservative, opposite to the characteristics of the Patriots.
american_revolution: In the south, both sides offered freedom to slaves who would perform military service.
american_revolution: New Jersey, South Carolina, and Virginia created their constitutions before July 4.
american_revolution: In 1774, twelve of the Thirteen Colonies sent delegates to the First Continental Congress; the Province of Georgia joined in 1775.
american_revolution: This British policy reverted significantly after the French and Indian War.
american_revolution: In the November 1775 document known as Dunmore's Proclamation Virginia royal governor, Lord Dunmore recruited Black men for British military service with the promise of freedom, protection for their families, and land grants.
american_revolution: This grievance was overly simplified with the slogan "No taxation without representation".
american_revolution: In 1776, Cherokee war parties attacked American settlers all along the southern Quebec frontier of the uplands throughout the Washington District, North Carolina (now Tennessee) and the Kentucky wilderness area.
american_revolution: In the winter of 1775, the Americans invaded northeastern Quebec under generals Benedict Arnold and Richard Montgomery, expecting to rally sympathetic colonists there.
american_revolution: Colonial assemblies and town meetings were restricted, new local taxes were levied, and rights were abridged.
american_revolution: The British constitution served as the model for colonial governments.
american_revolution: Wikiversity:The Great American Paradox
american_revolution: Lads from twelve to twenty one will think their rights not enough attended to, and every man, who has not a farthing, will demand an equal voice with any other in all acts of state.
american_revolution: In late 1781, the news of Cornwallis's surrender at the siege of Yorktown reached London; Lord North's parliamentary support ebbed away and he resigned the following year.
american_revolution: American settlers moved rapidly into those areas, with Vermont, Kentucky, and Tennessee becoming states in the 1790s.
american_revolution: A delegation including John Adams and Benjamin Franklin met British admiral Richard Howe on Staten Island in New York Harbor on September 11 in what became known as the Staten Island Peace Conference.
american_revolution: The effects of the war were more dramatic in the South.
american_revolution: Alan Heimert argues that New Light anti-authoritarianism was essential to furthering democracy in colonial American society, and set the stage for a confrontation with British monarchical and aristocratic rule.
american_revolution: However, this new sense of independence and dignity did not come with ease, as a gender hierarchy would continue to bind what it meant for women to have rights during the post-revolutionary era.
american_revolution: The letters' contents were used as evidence of a systematic plot against American rights, and discredited Hutchinson in the eyes of the people; the colonial Assembly petitioned for his recall.
american_revolution: In October 1781, the British surrendered their second invading army of the war under a siege by the combined French and Continental armies commanded by Washington.
american_revolution: The greatest burden was borne by the soldiers of the Continental Army whose wages were usually paid late and depreciated in value every month, weakening their morale and adding to the hardships of their families.
american_revolution: The Congress immediately began operating under the Articles' terms, providing a structure of shared sovereignty during prosecution of the Revolutionary War.
american_revolution: Later historians defend George by saying in the context of the times no king would willingly surrender such a large territory, and his conduct was far less ruthless than contemporary monarchs in Europe.
american_revolution: When the First Continental Congress resolved to boycott British products, the colonial and local Committees took charge, examining merchant records and publishing the names of merchants who attempted to defy the boycott by importing British goods.
american_revolution: Ray Raphael notes that thousands did join the Loyalist cause, but "a far larger number, free as well as slave, tried to further their interests by siding with the patriots."
american_revolution: The Americans opened direct secret negotiations with London, cutting out the French.
american_revolution: The development of a unique American identity can be traced to the English Civil War (1642–1651) and its aftermath.
american_revolution: Men must be ready, they must pride themselves, and be happy to sacrifice their private Pleasures, Passions, and Interests, nay their private Friendships and dearest connections, when they Stand in Competition with the Rights of society.
american_revolution: The British government lacked the resources and information necessary for close supervision of the colonies.
american_revolution: A significant victory at the Battle of Camden meant that royal forces soon controlled most of Georgia and South Carolina.
american_revolution: The Molasses Act 1733, for example, placed a duty of six pence per gallon upon foreign molasses imported into the colonies.
american_revolution: Lord North again requested that he also be allowed to resign, but he stayed in office at George III's insistence.
american_revolution: Dominion rule triggered bitter resentment throughout New England.
american_revolution: The First Continental Congress began coordinating Patriot resistance through underground networks of committees largely built on the foundations of the Sons of Liberty network.
american_revolution: It had been drafted largely by Thomas Jefferson, and was edited and presented by the Committee of Five which was charged with authoring it.
american_revolution: There were also other debts which consisted of promissory notes issued during the war to soldiers, merchants, and farmers who accepted these payments on the premise that the new nation would create a government that would pay these debts eventually.
american_revolution: Historians in the early 20th century such as J.
american_revolution: June 27, 2014.
american_revolution: Protestant churches that had separated from the Church of England, called "dissenters", were the "school of democracy", in the words of historian Patricia Bonomi.
american_revolution: Locke's ideas on liberty influenced the political thinking of English writers such as John Trenchard, Thomas Gordon, and Benjamin Hoadly, whose political ideas in turn also had a strong influence on the American Patriots.
american_revolution: As had been in colonial America, so too in Ireland now the King no longer had a monopoly of lethal force.
american_revolution: This paper money would supposedly be redeemed for state taxes, but the holders were eventually paid off in 1791 at the rate of one cent on the dollar.
american_revolution: On September 28, 1781, Washington commanded the Continental Army's capture of a British army under General Cornwallis at the Siege of Yorktown, leading to the collapse of King George's control of Parliament.
american_revolution: American women were integral to the success of the boycott of British goods, as the boycotted items were largely household articles such as tea and cloth.
american_revolution: During the war, British commanders attempted to weaken the Patriots by issuing proclamations of freedom to their enslaved.
american_revolution: After the Revolution, genuinely democratic politics became possible in the former American colonies.
american_revolution: The capture of a British army at Saratoga encouraged the French to formally enter the war in support of Congress, and Benjamin Franklin negotiated a permanent military alliance in early 1778; France thus became the first foreign nation to officially recognize the Declaration of Independence.
american_revolution: On May 26, 1776, John Adams wrote James Sullivan from Philadelphia, warning against extending the franchise too far:
american_revolution: Customs officials were forced to flee, prompting the British to deploy troops to Boston.
american_revolution: Numerous slaveholders who freed their enslaved cited Revolutionary ideals in their documents; others freed their enslaved as a reward for service.
american_revolution: Bailyn, on the other hand, denies that religion played such a critical role.
american_revolution: When John Adams was appointed American Minister to London in 1785, George had become resigned to the new relationship between his country and the former colonies.
american_revolution: As late as the Siege of Charleston in 1780, Loyalists could still believe in their eventual victory, as British troops inflicted defeats on the Continental forces at the Battle of Camden and the Battle of Guilford Court House.
american_revolution: Ferling says that the odds were so long that the American victory was "almost a miracle".
american_revolution: The colonies of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations had no officially established churches.
american_revolution: The national debt fell into three categories after the Revolutionary War.
american_revolution: Other laws regulated the developing colonial industries to prevent competition with industries in Britain, such as the Wool Act 1698, the Hat Act 1731, and the Iron Act 1750.
american_revolution: Religious motivation for fighting tyranny transcended socioeconomic lines.
american_revolution: Armed volunteer units of the Protestant Ascendancy were set up ostensibly to protect against an invasion from France.
american_revolution: Abigail Adams expressed to her husband, the president, the desire of women to have a place in the new republic: I desire you would remember the Ladies, and be more generous and favourable to them than your ancestors.
american_revolution: In 1767, though the Stamp Act was repealed, tensions flared again following Parliament's passage of the Townshend Acts.
american_revolution: Public support for the conflict had never been strong in Britain, where many sympathized with the Americans, but now it reached a new low.
american_revolution: The Rockingham government came to power in July 1765, and Parliament debated whether to repeal the stamp tax or to send an army to enforce it.
american_revolution: The new taxes were enacted on the belief that Americans only objected to internal taxes and not to external taxes such as custom duties.
american_revolution: The next step was to form a union to facilitate international relations and alliances.
american_revolution: As they continued to nurture social and political partnerships, their role in enabling the success of the revolution emphasized their changing role in society – leading to the post-revolutionary reconstruction of gender ideology.
american_revolution: This contrasted and conflicted sharply with the British system of inherited political power and hierarchy.
american_revolution: Those who opted not to run (many never really had a choice) may have watched events unfold with a growing sense of vindication, for the slaves who did strike out for freedom, while exhibiting remarkable courage and ingenuity in the process, had an exceptionally hard road ahead.
american_revolution: However, they seriously misunderstood the depth of support for the American Patriot position, misinterpreting the situation as merely a large-scale riot.
american_revolution: Edmund Morgan has argued that, in terms of long-term impact on American society and values:
american_revolution: These were demonstrated by a leadership and government that espoused protection of natural rights, and a system of laws chosen by the people.
american_revolution: Depend upon it, sir, it is dangerous to open so fruitful a source of controversy and altercation, as would be opened by attempting to alter the qualifications of voters.
american_revolution: Linking the attack on monarchism and aristocracy to the struggle against slavery, it at how freedom, equality, and sovereignty of the people became universal goals.
american_revolution: The Convention adopted a new Constitution which provided for a republic with authority to tax and a much stronger national government in a federal framework, including an effective executive in a check-and-balance system with the judiciary and legislature.
american_revolution: The crisis ended after 1784 confidence in the British constitution was restored during the administration of Prime Minister William Pitt.
american_revolution: Beginning in 1777, Congress repeatedly asked the states to provide money, but it had no system of taxation to require funds, and the states were of little help.
american_revolution: Many Loyalists felt that independence was bound to come eventually, but they were fearful that revolution might lead to anarchy, tyranny, or mob rule.
american_revolution: With little industry except shipbuilding, the colonies exported agricultural products in return for manufactured goods.
american_revolution: The early national period of America would continue to struggle with the concept of rights and equality.
american_revolution: Due to long-established English resistance to a standing army, stationing these officers in Great Britain during peacetime was a politically unacceptable alternative.
american_revolution: In 1790, conservatives gained power in the state legislature, called a new constitutional convention, and rewrote the constitution.
american_revolution: The United States Bicentennial in 1976 came a year after the American withdrawal from the Vietnam War, and speakers stressed the themes of renewal and rebirth based on a restoration of traditional values.
american_revolution: They perceived the Southern Colonies as strongly Loyalist, with a large population of recent British immigrants, and large numbers of slaves who might be tempted to run away from their Patriot masters to join the British and gain their freedom.
american_revolution: On July 4, 1776 they unanimously adopted the Declaration of Independence, famously proclaiming that "all men are created equal", having then evolved from a rebellion over British rights to a revolution based on universal rights.
american_revolution: The defeat heightened dissension and escalated political antagonism to the king's ministers.
american_revolution: The British, however, were amassing forces at their naval base at Halifax, Nova Scotia.
american_revolution: Parliament agreed and repealed the tax on February 21, 1766, but they insisted in the Declaratory Act of March 1766 that they retained full power to make laws for the colonies "in all cases whatsoever".
american_revolution: It lowered the duty on foreign molasses from 6 pence to 3 pence per gallon.
american_revolution: Even after the war, Frederick II predicted that the United States was too large to operate as a republic, and that it would soon rejoin the British Empire with representatives in Parliament.
american_revolution: George Washington's estate at Mount Vernon was one of the first national pilgrimages for tourists and attracted 10,000 visitors a year by the 1850s.
american_revolution: Great Britain defeated France and acquired that nation's territory east of the Mississippi River.
american_revolution: Debtors benefited by paying off their debts with depreciated paper.
american_revolution: The affair was investigated for possible treason, but no action was taken.
american_revolution: Each country spent one million "livres tournaises" to buy munitions.
american_revolution: The national government did not have a strong leader in financial matters until 1781, when Robert Morris was named Superintendent of Finance of the United States.
american_revolution: Rhode Island was the final state to ratify the Constitution in 1790, the first ten amendments were ratified in 1791 and became known as the United States Bill of Rights.
american_revolution: Opposition to the costly war was increasing, and in June 1780 contributed to disturbances in London known as the Gordon riots.
american_revolution: A Boston town meeting declared that no obedience was due to parliamentary laws and called for the convening of a convention.
american_revolution: These war parties killed many settlers on the frontier, especially in western Pennsylvania and New York's Mohawk Valley.
american_revolution: The British maltreated the prisoners whom they held, resulting in more American deaths in the prisons than all the American battlefield mortalities, combined.
american_revolution: The Quakers continued to do business with the British even after the war began, and they were accused of supporting British rule, "contrivers and authors of seditious publications" critical of the revolutionary cause.
american_revolution: The city became the destination for Loyalist refugees and a focal point of Washington's intelligence network.
american_revolution: The congress was divided on the best course of action.
american_revolution: Nearly all Black Loyalists left for Nova Scotia, Florida, or England, where they could remain free.
american_revolution: Congress called for a boycott beginning on December 1, 1774, of all British goods; it was enforced by new local committees authorized by the Congress that were largely built upon the earlier Committees of Correspondence.
american_revolution: They participated by boycotting British goods, spying on the British, following armies as they marched, washing, cooking, and mending for soldiers, delivering secret messages, and even fighting disguised as men in a few cases, such as Deborah Samson.
american_revolution: During the revolution, the contradiction between the Patriots' professed ideals of liberty and the institution of slavery generated increased scrutiny of the latter.
american_revolution: Academic blog with original German sources, English translations, and commentary.
american_revolution: The soldiers were tried and acquitted (defended by American patriot John Adams), but the widespread descriptions soon began to turn colonial sentiment against the British.
american_revolution: The northern war subsequently became a stalemate, as the focus of attention shifted to the smaller southern theater.
american_revolution: From early October 1777 until November 15, a siege distracted British troops at Fort Mifflin, Pennsylvania and allowed Washington time to preserve the Continental Army by safely leading his troops to harsh winter quarters at Valley Forge, some 35 miles from Philadelphia.
american_revolution: He led an expedition of colonial troops to capture Florida from the British and to keep open a vital conduit for supplies going to the Americans.
american_revolution: Patriot women married to Loyalists who left the state could get a divorce and obtain control of the ex-husband's property.
american_revolution: Instead, increased British migration beyond the Appalachian Mountains and Native American anger over the policies of General Jeffery Amherst caused Pontiac's War (1763–1766).
american_revolution: They were highly sensitive to the issue of tyranny, which they saw manifested in the British response to the Boston Tea Party.
american_revolution: Thomas Paine published his pamphlet Common Sense in January 1776, after the Revolution had started.
american_revolution: All later revolutionary movements have this same goal...
american_revolution: Men were honor bound by civic obligation to be prepared and willing to fight for the rights and liberties of their countrymen.
american_revolution: At the end of the war, both sides released their surviving prisoners.
american_revolution: On the other hand, Joseph Ellis says that the odds favored the Americans, and asks whether there ever was any realistic chance for the British to win.
american_revolution: He told Adams, "I was the last to consent to the separation; but the separation having been made and having become inevitable, I have always said, as I say now, that I would be the first to meet the friendship of the United States as an independent power."
american_revolution: His work also inspired symbols used in the American Revolution such as the "Appeal to Heaven" found on the Pine Tree Flag, which alludes to Locke's concept of the right of revolution.
american_revolution: They had faith that God was on their side.
american_revolution: Thousands of free Blacks in the northern states fought in the state militias and Continental Army.
american_revolution: Britain's war against the Americans, the French, and the Spanish cost about £100 million.
american_revolution: Now the idea emerged that power should come from below...
american_revolution: They held elected conventions and established their own legislatures, which existed outside any legal parameters established by the British.
american_revolution: They proclaimed that they were now states, no longer colonies.
american_revolution: The enslaved, a near majority of the population in some colonies, did not pay any taxes and therefore skewed this comparison.
american_revolution: While women were entering a period in which they found themselves gaining more identity within society, it was clear that they were still very much considered under men as their role in society remained being a good wife and mother.
american_revolution: In August 1775, King George III proclaimed Massachusetts to be in a state of rebellion.
american_revolution: With the new state constitutions and the issuance of the Declaration of Independence, each former colony began operating as an independent and sovereign state.
american_revolution: The historian Simon Schama argued that for Southern Patriots, "Theirs was a revolution, first and foremost, mobilized to protect slavery."
The 1779 Philipsburg Proclamation expanded the promise of freedom for Black men who enlisted in the British military to all the colonies in rebellion.
american_revolution: The British set up a network of forts inland, hoping that the Loyalists would rally to the flag.
american_revolution: The new constitution substantially reduced universal male suffrage, gave the governor veto power and patronage appointment authority, and added an upper house with substantial wealth qualifications to the unicameral legislature.
american_revolution: Meanwhile, the Battle of Bunker Hill on June 17, 1775 was a British victory—but at a great cost: about 1,000 British casualties from a garrison of about 6,000, as compared to 500 American casualties from a much larger force.
american_revolution: The Revolution did revolutionize social relations.
