animation: The illusion of motion caused by a rapid succession of images that minimally differ from each other, with unnoticeable interruptions, is a stroboscopic effect.
animation: The mechanical manipulation of three-dimensional puppets and objects to emulate living beings has a very long history in automata.
animation: Following in 1944, the animated film Fengzheng (The Kite) would be published combining animation characteristics of Disney shorts of that era called "plasmaticness" and local Chinese folklore.
animation: The making of an 8-minute cartoon short
"Animando", a 12-minute film demonstrating 10 different animation techniques (and teaching how to use them) (archived 1 October 2009).
animation: However, 101 Dalmatians was "a short-lived experiment"; the next Disney film to follow this method was The Great Mouse Detective (1986).
animation: The completed character cels are photographed one-by-one against a painted background by a rostrum camera onto motion picture film.
animation: These have had a recent boost in popularity with the advent of video sharing sites, YouTube and the availability of cheap cameras and animation software.
animation: The constraints of American television programming and the demand for an enormous quantity resulted in cheaper and quicker limited animation methods and much more formulaic scripts.
animation: Many animations are either traditional animations or computer animations made with computer-generated imagery (CGI).
animation: Sometimes, the mesh is given an internal digital skeletal structure called an armature that can be used to control the mesh by weighting the vertices.
animation: Although Disney Animation's actual output relative to total global animation output has always been very small, the studio has overwhelmingly dominated the "aesthetic norms" of animation ever since.
animation: Animators, like all artists, necessarily have individual styles, but must subordinate their individuality in a consistent way to whatever style is employed on a particular film.
animation: Alternatively, the figures may be made entirely of clay, in the films of Bruce Bickford, where clay creatures morph into a variety of different shapes.
animation: But its background comes from anime and manga during the 1920s where theatrical stage productions were popular.
animation: Somewhat similarly, characters and plots for video games (an interactive form of animation that became its own medium) have been derived from films and vice versa.
animation: During the 1970s, the term "2.5D" started to gain recognition.
animation: The Fleischer studios followed this example in 1939 with Gulliver's Travels with some success.
animation: On traditionally animated projects, maquettes were often sculpted to further help the animators see how characters would look from different angles.
animation: Some animated characters in commercials have survived for decades, such as Snap, Crackle and Pop in advertisements for Kellogg's cereals.
animation: Analog mechanical animation media that rely on the rapid display of sequential images include the phenakistiscope, zoetrope, flip book, praxinoscope, and film.
animation: Fully animated films can be made in a variety of styles, from more realistically animated works like those produced by the Walt Disney studio (The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, The Lion King) to the more 'cartoon' styles of the Warner Bros.
animation: One of the earlier uses was in Koko the Clown when Koko was drawn over live-action footage.
animation: Drawn-on-film animation: a technique where footage is produced by creating the images directly on film stock; for example, by Norman McLaren, Len Lye and Stan Brakhage.
animation: Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks created a series of Alice Comedies (1923–1927), in which a live-action girl enters an animated world.
animation: Musical fountain: a hydrautechnical show that includes water and lights, nowadays often combined with lasers and high-definition projections on mist screens.
animation: Despite that tension, it has become and remains the dominant method by which animation studios develop both feature-length films and television shows.
animation: Rotoscoping is a technique patented by Max Fleischer in 1917 where animators trace live-action movement, frame by frame.
animation: This process is called rigging and can be used in conjunction with key frames to create movement.
animation: Most of the cel animation studios switched to producing mostly computer-animated films around the 1990s, as it proved cheaper and more profitable.
animation: The characteristics of Felix the cat's physical appearance would come to be the standard model for cartoon character in the following years.
animation: In 1876, animation would be adapted for the theatrical audience, as entrepreneurs such as Emile Reynaud began investing in the art form.
animation: Felix the Cat, who debuted in 1919, became the first fully realized anthropomorphic animal character in the history of American animation.
animation: Examples include The Tale of the Fox (France, 1937), The Nightmare Before Christmas (US, 1993), Corpse Bride (US, 2005), Coraline (US, 2009), the films of Jiří Trnka and the adult animated sketch-comedy television series Robot Chicken (US, 2005–present).
animation: Pinscreen animation would be developed by Alexandre Alexeïeff in France being used to create films such as A Night on Bald Mountain (1933).
animation: The illusion of animation—as in motion pictures in general—has traditionally been attributed to the persistence of vision and later to the phi phenomenon and beta movement, but the exact neurological causes are still uncertain.
animation: Model animation
Stop-motion animation created to interact with and exist as a part of a live-action world.
animation: 2D animation has many applications, including After Effects Animation, analog computer animation, Flash animation, and PowerPoint animation.
animation: The final animated piece is output to one of several delivery media, including traditional 35 mm film and newer media with digital video.
animation: Linear Animation Generator is a form of animation by using static picture frames installed in a tunnel or a shaft.
animation: The 3D model maker usually starts by creating a 3D polygon mesh for the animator to manipulate.
animation: Other great artistic and very influential short films were created by Ladislas Starevich with his puppet animations since 1910 and by Winsor McCay with detailed hand-drawn animation in films such as Little Nemo (1911) and Gertie the Dinosaur (1914).
animation: Quality dwindled until more daring animation surfaced in the late 1980s and in the early 1990s with hit series, the first cartoon of The Simpsons (1987), which later developed into its own show (in 1989) and SpongeBob SquarePants (since 1999) as part of a "renaissance" of American animation.
animation: Examples of pixilation include The Secret Adventures of Tom Thumb and Angry Kid shorts, and the Academy Award-winning Neighbours by Norman McLaren.
animation: In 1937, Walt Disney Studios premiered their first animated feature Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, still one of the highest-grossing traditional animation features as of May 2020.
animation: O'Brien on films, King Kong (1933).
animation: Many are part of general or regional film award programs, like the China's Golden Rooster Award for Best Animation (since 1981).
animation: Polish art student Ladislas Starevitch would employ stop-motion animation creating films such as The Cameraman's Revenge (1912) and The Tale of the Fox (1930).
animation: Traditional animation (also called cel animation or hand-drawn animation) is the process that was used for most animated films of the 20th century.
animation: The technique was invented by Industrial Light & Magic and Phil Tippett to create special effect scenes for the film Star Wars: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back (1980).
animation: This includes automated computerized versions of traditional animation techniques, interpolated morphing, onion skinning and interpolated rotoscoping.
animation: This creates an interesting effect when animated because of the light contrast.
animation: Films include Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit, Chicken Run and The Adventures of Mark Twain.
animation: Object animation
The use of regular inanimate objects in stop-motion animation, as opposed to specially created items.
animation: The figures may have an armature or wire frame inside, similar to the related puppet animation (below), that can be manipulated to pose the figures.
animation: Stop motion animation, in particular claymation, is also prominent alongside these other forms, albeit to a lesser degree.
animation: Up (2009) and Toy Story 3 (2010) also received Best Picture nominations, after the academy expanded the number of nominees from five to ten.
animation: Christiaan Huygens was thought to have invented the magic lantern in the mid-1600s.
animation: In addition to short films, feature films, television series, animated GIFs, and other media dedicated to the display of moving images, animation is also prevalent in video games, motion graphics, user interfaces, and visual effects.
animation: in which characters/props are thrown, or chucked from off camera or wiggled around to simulate talking by unseen hands.
animation: Tex Avery was the producer of the first Raid "Kills Bugs Dead" commercials in 1966, which were very successful for the company.
animation: Many classic cartoons found a new life on the small screen and by the end of the 1950s, the production of new animated cartoons started to shift from theatrical releases to TV series.
animation: In traditional animation, images are drawn or painted by hand on transparent celluloid sheets to be photographed and exhibited on film.
animation: Computer animation was gradually developed since the 1940s.
animation: Ironically, the Disney studio was relatively slow to adopt this method.
animation: Actors usually schedule sessions in the recording studio around their live-action work.
animation: Long before modern animation began, audiences around the world were captivated by the magic of moving characters.
animation: Chuckimation is a type of animation created by the makers of the television series Action League Now!
animation: Examples of clay-animated works include The Gumby Show (US, 1957–1967), Mio Mao (Italy, 1974–2005), Morph shorts (UK, 1977–2000), Wallace & Gromit shorts (UK, as of 1989), Jan Švankmajer's Dimensions of Dialogue (Czechoslovakia, 1982), The Trap Door (UK, 1984).
animation: animation studio.
animation: The animators' drawings are traced or photocopied onto transparent acetate sheets called cels, which are filled in with paints in assigned colors or tones on the side opposite the line drawings.
animation: It uses figures made of clay or a similar malleable material to create stop-motion animation.
animation: Audio-Animatronics is a form of robotics animation, combined with 3-D animation, created by Walt Disney Imagineering for shows and attractions at Disney theme parks move and make noise (generally a recorded speech or song).
animation: Since the early 1980s, teams of about 500 to 600 people, of whom 50 to 70 are animators, typically have created feature-length animated films.
animation: Another problem unique to animation is the requirement to maintain a film's consistency from start to finish, even as films have grown longer and teams have grown larger.
animation: As with any other form of media, animation has instituted awards for excellence in the field.
animation: During the 1960s, these studios experimented with a more efficient method for developing story material: a screenwriter is hired to draft a written screenplay which is approved and handed over to the storyboard artists for storyboarding.
animation: Hanna-Barbera Productions was especially prolific and had huge hit series, such as The Flintstones (1960–1966) (the first prime time animated series), Scooby-Doo (since 1969) and Belgian co-production The Smurfs (1981–1989).
animation: Brickfilm
A subgenre of object animation involving using Lego or other similar brick toys to make an animation.
animation: Fully animated films are often animated on "twos", sometimes on "ones", which means that 12 to 24 drawings are required for a single second of film.
animation: The traditional cel animation process became obsolete by the beginning of the 21st century.
animation: The puppets generally have an armature inside of them to keep them still and steady to constrain their motion to particular joints.
animation: While many comic book characters found their way to the screen (which is often the case in Japan, where many manga are adapted into anime), original animated characters also commonly appear in comic books and magazines.
animation: Disneyland opened in 1955 and features many attractions that were based on Disney's cartoon characters.
animation: The so-called 3D style, more often associated with computer animation, became the dominant technique following the success of Pixar's Toy Story (1995), the first computer-animated feature in this style.
animation: In 2009, Disney created an interactive version of the technology called Autonomatronics.
animation: Then, in 1993, Animaniacs followed, featuring the three rubber-hose-styled Warner siblings, Yakko, Wakko, and Dot, who are trapped in the 1930s, eventually escaped and found themselves in the Warner Bros.
animation: 3D wireframe animation started popping up in the mainstream in the 1970s, with an early (short) appearance in the sci-fi thriller Futureworld (1976).
animation: The action often revolves around exaggerated physical humor, particularly in predator and prey dynamics (e.g.
animation: Examples include the work of Ray Harryhausen, as seen in films, Jason and the Argonauts (1963), and the work of Willis H.
animation: For centuries, master artists and craftsmen have brought puppets, automatons, shadow puppets, and fantastical lanterns to life, inspiring the imagination through physically manipulated wonders.
animation: The most important difference is that once a film is in the production phase, the marginal cost of one more shot is higher for animated films than live-action films.
animation: Silhouette animation
A variant of cutout animation in which the characters are backlit and only visible as silhouettes.
animation: For several decades, Disney was the only American studio to regularly produce animated features, until Ralph Bakshi became the first to release more than a handful of features.
animation: Character designers on the visual development team draw model sheets to show how each character should look with different facial expressions, posed in different positions, and viewed from different angles.
animation: In 1928, Steamboat Willie, featuring Mickey Mouse and Minnie Mouse, popularized film-with-synchronized-sound and put Walt Disney's studio at the forefront of the animation industry.
animation: The primary benefit of this approach is the ability to reuse images, which reduces the amount of graphics stored in RAM.
animation: Electronic automata were popularized by Disney as animatronics.
animation: After working on it for three years, Lotte Reiniger released the German feature-length silhouette animation Die Abenteuer des Prinzen Achmed in 1926, the oldest extant animated feature.
animation: The individual frames of a traditionally animated film are photographs of drawings, first drawn on paper.
animation: Coyote and the Road Runner (1949), MGM cartoon studio's Tom and Jerry (1940) and Droopy, Universal Cartoon Studios' Woody Woodpecker (1940), Terrytoons/20th Century Fox's Mighty Mouse (1942), and United Artists' Pink Panther (1963).
animation: For example, William Kentridge is famous for his charcoal erasure films, and Piotr Dumała for his auteur technique of animating scratches on plaster.
animation: This method creates significant tension between screenwriters and storyboard artists, in that some artists feel that people who cannot draw should not be writing for animation, while some writers feel that artists do not understand how to write.
animation: This is a more economic technique.
animation: It was produced using the Computer Animation Production System (CAPS), developed by Pixar in collaboration with The Walt Disney Company in the late 1980s, in a style similar to traditional cel animation.
animation: Its enormous success spawned several other Disney theme parks and resorts.
animation: Awards programs dedicated to animation, with many categories, include ASIFA-Hollywood's Annie Awards, the Emile Awards in Europe and the Anima Mundi awards in Brazil.
animation: While very many animation companies commercially exploit their creations outside moving image media, The Walt Disney Company is the best known and most extreme example.
animation: While US animated series also spawned successes internationally, many other countries produced their own child-oriented programming, relatively often preferring stop motion and puppetry over cel animation.
animation: Traits common to both live-action and animated feature films are labour intensity and high production costs.
animation: Unlike live-action films, animated films were traditionally developed beyond the synopsis stage through the storyboard format; the storyboard artists would then receive credit for writing the film.
animation: There are many different types of stop-motion animation, usually named after the materials used to create the animation.
animation: The magic lantern used mechanical slides to project moving images.
animation: Pinscreen animation: makes use of a screen filled with movable pins that can be moved in or out by pressing an object onto the screen.
animation: Intercutting, matte effects and split screens are often employed to blend stop-motion characters or objects with live actors and settings.
animation: Stage adaptations of well-liked anime series featured live performances by voice actors called 2.5D.
animation: For short films, it was enough for the storyboard artists to work up a few visual gags and then string them together to form a crude plot.
animation: 3D animation is digitally modelled and manipulated by an animator.
animation: It was followed by Cristiani's Sin dejar rastros in 1918, but one day after its premiere, the film was confiscated by the government.
animation: Disney's earnings from the theme parks have relatively often been higher than those from their movies.
animation: Pioneered by the artists at the American studio United Productions of America, limited animation can be used as a method of stylized artistic expression, as in Gerald McBoing-Boing (US, 1951), Yellow Submarine (UK, 1968), and certain anime produced in Japan.
animation: Limited animation uses fewer drawings per second, thereby limiting the fluidity of the animation.
animation: The Rescuers Down Under was the first feature film to be completely created digitally without a camera.
animation: It wasn't until the invention of sprocket-drive film stock, would animation begin to gain traction in cinema.
animation: It took years before animation found its way to the cinemas.
animation: Cutout animation
(Sometimes called paper animation) A type of stop-motion animation produced by moving two-dimensional pieces of material paper or cloth.
animation: In 1917, Italian-Argentine director Quirino Cristiani made the first feature-length film El Apóstol (now lost), which became a critical and commercial success.
animation: Animation has been recognized as an artistic medium, specifically within the entertainment industry.
animation: During World War II, animation was widely exploited for propaganda.
animation: The traditional approach worked for several decades because prior to the 1960s, no one except Disney was attempting to regularly produce feature-length animated films.
animation: Beauty and the Beast was the first animated film nominated for Best Picture, in 1991.
animation: As CGI increasingly approximates photographic imagery, filmmakers can relatively easily composite 3D animated visual effects (VFX) into their film, rather than using practical effects.
animation: Flip books are not always separate books, they appear as an added feature in ordinary books or magazines, often in the page corners.
animation: Successful producer John Randolph Bray and animator Earl Hurd patented the cel animation process that dominated the animation industry for the rest of the century.
animation: Since first being licensed for a children's writing tablet in 1929, their Mickey Mouse mascot has been depicted on an enormous amount of products, as have many other Disney characters.
animation: Graphic animation
Uses non-drawn flat visual graphic material (photographs, newspaper clippings, magazines, etc.), which are sometimes manipulated frame by frame to create movement.
animation: This problem is usually solved by having a separate group of visual development artists develop an overall look and palette for each film before the animation begins.
animation: At other times, the graphics remain stationary, while the stop-motion camera is moved to create on-screen action.
animation: Many American studios, including Warner Bros.
animation: The earlier meaning of the English word is 'liveliness' and has been in use much longer than the meaning of 'moving image medium'.
animation: To create the illusion of movement, each drawing differs slightly from the one before it.
animation: Hanna-Barbera and the other early television animation studios soon discovered that storyboarding was far too inefficient to fill up a half-hour episode on the extremely tight budgets typical of television.
animation: Computer animation encompasses a variety of techniques, the unifying factor being that the animation is created digitally on a computer.
animation: This principle of maximizing resource efficiency means that by reusing existing elements, you can enhance the visual appeal of animations without needing to create additional graphics.
animation: This may have influenced some pejorative use of Mickey's name, but licensed Disney products sell well, and the so-called Disneyana has many avid collectors, and even a dedicated Disneyana Fan Club (since 1984).
animation: Cartoon Studios' Looney Tunes' Porky Pig (1935), Daffy Duck (1937), Elmer Fudd (1937–1940), Bugs Bunny (1938–1940), Tweety (1942), Sylvester the Cat (1945), Wile E.
animation: The physical movement of image parts through simple mechanics—for instance, moving images in magic lantern shows—can also be considered animation.
animation: Animation has been very popular in television commercials, both due to its graphic appeal, and the humour it can provide.
animation: The screen is lit from the side so that the pins cast shadows.
animation: Television and video are popular electronic animation media that originally were analog and now operate digitally.
animation: Stop motion is used to describe animation created by physically manipulating real-world objects and photographing them one frame of film at a time to create the illusion of movement.
animation: Pixilation
Involves the use of live humans as stop-motion characters.
animation: For example, the English 1954 adaptation of George Orwell's Animal Farm (the nation's first feature-length animated film) is speculated to have had its production funded by the CIA.
animation: This allows for a number of surreal effects, including disappearances and reappearances, allowing people to appear to slide across the ground, and other effects.
animation: China, Czechoslovakia / Czech Republic, Italy, France, and Belgium were other countries that more than occasionally released feature films.
animation: Examples include Up (2009, US), How to Train Your Dragon (2010, US)
Physically based animation is animation using computer simulations.
animation: This term gained popularity first in 1988 with the live-action/animated hybrid film Who Framed Roger Rabbit, which introduced ToonTown, a world inhabited by various animated cartoon characters.
animation: While animators must "sacrifice their personal drawing styles so that the work of many hands appears to be that of one", visual development artists are allowed to "create new worlds, new characters, and new entertainment possibilities in their own individualistic graphic styles".
animation: Puppetoons
Created using techniques developed by George Pal, are puppet-animated films that typically use a different version of a puppet for different frames, rather than manipulating one existing puppet.
animation: The principle would be later applied by William George Horner's zoetrope (1876), the flip book (1868), the praxinoscope(1877), and film.
animation: Other examples include Allegro Non Troppo (Italy, 1976), Who Framed Roger Rabbit (US, 1988), Volere volare (Italy 1991), Cool World (US, 1992), The Pagemaster (US, 1994) Space Jam (US, 1996) and Osmosis Jones (US, 2001).
animation: It has therefore been widely used for other purposes than mere entertainment.
animation: Soviet Soyuzmultfilm animation studio, founded in 1936, produced 20 films (including shorts) per year on average and reached 1,582 titles in 2018.
animation: Cinemagraphs are still photographs in the form of an animated GIF file of which part is animated.
animation: Paint-on-glass animation: a technique for making animated films by manipulating slow drying oil paints on sheets of glass, for example by Aleksandr Petrov.
animation: Sand animation: sand is moved around on a back- or front-lighted piece of glass to create each frame for an animated film.
animation: An animated cartoon, or simply a cartoon, is an animated film, usually a short film, that features an exaggerated style.
animation: This style is often inspired by comic strips, gag cartoons, and other non-animated art forms.
animation: The source film can be directly copied from actors' outlines into animated drawings, as in The Lord of the Rings (US, 1978), or used in a stylized and expressive manner, as in Waking Life (US, 2001) and A Scanner Darkly (US, 2006).
animation: Animated feature-length films returned the highest gross margins (around 52%) of all film genres between 2004 and 2013.
animation: All other animation studios, with occasional exceptions, were producing short films only a few minutes in length.
animation: The first Disney feature animated film to have a complete screenplay written and approved before storyboarding was One Hundred and One Dalmatians (1961).
animation: Examples of traditionally animated feature films include Pinocchio (United States, 1940), Animal Farm (United Kingdom, 1954), Lucky and Zorba (Italy, 1998), and The Illusionist (British-French, 2010).
animation: Partly due to foreign markets being cut off by the Second World War, Disney's next features Pinocchio, Fantasia (both 1940), Fleischer Studios' second animated feature Mr.
animation: Limited animation involves the use of less detailed or more stylized drawings and methods of movement usually a choppy or "skippy" movement animation.
animation: The term originated from the software introduction in the 1980s demoscene, as well as the 1990s recordings of the first-person shooter video game Quake.
animation: Paper craft animation
a stop motion animation using Construction paper or Card stock by doing cutting, folding, gluing and assembling.
animation: Flip book: a flip book (sometimes, especially in British English, called a flick book) is a book with a series of pictures that vary gradually from one page to the next, so that when the pages are turned rapidly, the pictures appear to animate by simulating motion or some other change.
animation: It is relatively easy for two or three artists to match their styles; synchronizing those of dozens of artists is more difficult.
animation: cats and mice, coyotes and birds), where violent pratfalls such as falls, collisions, and explosions occur, often in ways that would be lethal in the real life.
animation: Another example is the dragon named "Vermithrax" from the 1981 film Dragonslayer.
animation: While live-action films are now also storyboarded, they enjoy more latitude to depart from storyboards (i.e., real-time improvisation).
animation: Cartoons were mainly programmed for children, on convenient time slots, and especially US youth spent many hours watching Saturday-morning cartoons.
animation: Character animation
Multi-sketch animation
Special effects animation
2.5D Animation: A mix of 2D and 3D animation elements that emphasize the illusion of depth utilizing the pseudo-3D effect.
animation: Apart from Academy Awards for Best Animated Short Film (since 1932) and Best Animated Feature (since 2002), animated movies have been nominated and rewarded in other categories, relatively often for Best Original Song and Best Original Score.
animation: Various software programs are used to colour the drawings and simulate camera movement and effects.
animation: Final line advection animation is a technique used in 2D animation, to give artists and animators more influence and control over the final product as everything is done within the same department.
animation: The United States dominated the world market of animation with a plethora of cel-animated theatrical shorts.
animation: It is pointless for a studio to pay the salaries of dozens of animators to spend weeks creating a visually dazzling five-minute scene if that scene fails to effectively advance the plot of the film.
animation: They are fixed to whatever supports them.
animation: An Audio-Animatron is different from an android-type robot in that it uses prerecorded movements and sounds, rather than responding to external stimuli.
animation: Stop motion
Typically involves stop-motion puppet figures interacting in a constructed environment, in contrast to real-world interaction in model animation.
animation: By 2021, the value had increased to an estimated US$370 billion.
animation: They can sit and stand, and they cannot walk.
animation: In 1832, the phenakistoscope, invented by Belgian Joseph Plateau, would introduce the principle of modern animation, the principle of persistence of vision.
animation: Cartoons frequently include anthropomorphic animals, superheroes, or the adventures of human protagonists.
animation: Some other examples are Fire and Ice (US, 1983), Heavy Metal (1981), and Aku no Hana (Japan, 2013).
animation: Other techniques can be applied, mathematical functions (e.g., gravity, particle simulations), simulated fur or hair, and effects, fire and water simulations.
animation: Animation as an art and industry continues to thrive as of the early 2020s.
animation: In modern traditionally animated films, animators' drawings and the backgrounds are either scanned into or drawn directly into a computer system.
animation: In 1960, Hanna-Barbera pioneered the longer animated sitcom format for television with The Flintstones.
animation: During the late 1980s, the term "cartoon" was shortened to toon, referring to characters in animated productions, or more specifically, cartoonishly-drawn characters.
animation: For display on computers, technology such as the animated GIF and Flash animation were developed.
animation: Computer software is widely available to create this type of animation; traditional stop-motion animation is usually less expensive but more time-consuming to produce than current computer animation.
animation: Go motion
A variant of model animation that uses various techniques to create motion blur between frames of film, which is not present in traditional stop motion.
animation: Erasure animation: a technique using traditional 2D media, photographed over time as the artist manipulates the image.
animation: Motion capture is used when live-action actors wear special suits that allow computers to copy their movements into CG characters.
animation: Many of the Disney animated features are examples of full animation, as are non-Disney works, The Secret of NIMH (US, 1982), The Iron Giant (US, 1999), and Nocturna (Spain, 2007).
animation: Animation is a filmmaking technique whereby pictures are created or manipulated and then played in sequence to create the illusion of moving images.
animation: 2D animation techniques tend to focus on image manipulation while 3D techniques usually build virtual worlds in which characters and objects move and interact.
animation: The creation of non-trivial animation works (i.e., longer than a few seconds) has developed as a form of filmmaking, with certain unique aspects.
animation: Its primary use, however, has been in producing cost-effective animated content for media for television (the work of Hanna-Barbera, Filmation, and other TV animation studios) and later the Internet (web cartoons).
animation: A mesh typically includes many vertices that are connected by edges and faces, which give the visual appearance of form to a 3D object or 3D environment.
animation: The "look" of traditional cel animation is still preserved, and the character animators' work has remained essentially the same over the past 90 years.
animation: Bug Goes to Town (1941–1942) failed at the box office.
animation: 3D animation can create images that seem real to the viewer.
animation: These techniques fall under the category of 3D dynamics.
animation: water tower in the 1990s.
animation: Software packages and websites are also available that convert digital video files into custom-made flip books.
animation: The enormous success of Mickey Mouse is seen as the start of the golden age of American animation that would last until the 1960s.
animation: Animation has traditionally been very closely related to comic books.
animation: The animation illusion is created by putting the viewer in a linear motion, parallel to the installed picture frames.
animation: Flip books are often illustrated books for children, they also are geared towards adults and employ a series of photographs rather than drawings.
animation: Other common animation methods apply a stop motion technique to two- and three-dimensional objects like paper cutouts, puppets, or clay figures.
animation: During the 1910s, the production of animated "cartoons" became an industry in the US.
animation: and Disney, lent their talents and their cartoon characters to convey to the public certain war values.
animation: Clay animation or Plasticine animation
(Often called claymation, which, however, is a trademarked name).
animation: 2D animation figures are created or edited on the computer using 2D bitmap graphics and 2D vector graphics.
animation: Many filmmakers have produced films that are a hybrid of the two.
animation: Although relatively few titles became as successful as Disney's features, other countries developed their own animation industries that produced both short and feature theatrical animations in a wide variety of styles, relatively often including stop motion and cutout animation techniques.
animation: In 1990, Tiny Toon Adventures embraced the classic cartoon spirit, introducing a new generation of cartoon characters.
animation: Some animation producers have used the term "tradigital" (a play on the words "traditional" and "digital") to describe cel animation that uses significant computer technology.
animation: Finally, another key difference is that actors traditionally record vocal tracks for animated films in separate individual sessions; they often meet one another for the first time only at the film's premiere.
animation: The technique has been used to create animated films with a range of textural effects difficult to achieve with traditional cel animation.
animation: Examples include The Adventures of Prince Achmed (Weimar Republic, 1926) and Princes et Princesses (France, 2000).
animation: Animation is contrasted with live action, although the two do not exist in isolation.
animation: Stuart Blackton popularized stop motion and reportedly inspired Émile Cohl to create Fantasmagorie (1908), regarded as the oldest known example of a complete traditional (hand-drawn) animation on standard cinematographic film.
animation: Sullivan-Bluth Studios began to regularly produce animated features starting with An American Tail in 1986.
animation: These efforts extended to other countries well into the Cold War era, particularly as it pertained to "combatting" communism.
animation: Live-action/animation is a technique combining hand-drawn characters into live action shots or live-action actors into animated shots.
animation: The successful short The Haunted Hotel (1907) by J.
animation: The shading looks stark, with less blending of colors.
