antarctica: The British Antarctic Survey (BAS), Australian Antarctic Program (AAP) and United States Antarctic Program (USAP) have all released such reports, largely focusing on how changes in Antarctica's climate may impact their respective home countries and the global climate.
antarctica: The Winter International Film Festival of Antarctica (WIFFA), established in 2006 as a way to combat social isolation, is held annually for those wintering on the continent.
antarctica: Astrophysicists at the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station study cosmic microwave background radiation and neutrinos from space.
antarctica: Much larger than and unrelated to Antarctica, Terra Australis was a landmass that classical scholars presumed necessary to balance the known lands in the northern hemisphere.
antarctica: In the Cretaceous, it was dominated by a fern-conifer ecosystem, which changed into a temperate rainforest by the end of that period.
antarctica: Various other bird species visit the ocean around Antarctica, including some that normally reside in the Arctic.
antarctica: About 1,150 species of fungi have been recorded in the Antarctic region, of which about 750 are non-lichen-forming.
antarctica: It is built on a craton of rock, which is the basis of the Precambrian Shield.
antarctica: East Antarctica comprises Coats Land, Queen Maud Land, Enderby Land, Mac.
antarctica: Tetrapods first appeared in Antarctica during the Early Triassic epoch, with the earliest known fossils found in the Fremouw Formation of the Transantarctic Mountains.
antarctica: Antarctica ( ) is Earth's southernmost and least-populated continent.
antarctica: Mardon, Austin Albert; Mardon, Catherine (2009).
antarctica: In 1555 the claim was incorporated to Chile.
antarctica: Kleinschmidt, Georg (2021).
antarctica: His expeditions conducted extensive geographical and scientific research, and he is credited with surveying a larger region of the continent than any other explorer.
antarctica: Geologists primarily study plate tectonics, meteorites, and the breakup of Gondwana.
antarctica: However, a captain in the Imperial Russian Navy, Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen, recorded seeing an ice shelf on 27 January.
antarctica: Its coastline is almost 18,000 km (11,200 mi) long: as of 1983, of the four coastal types, 44% of the coast is floating ice in the form of an ice shelf, 38% consists of ice walls that rest on rock, 13% is ice streams or the edge of glaciers, and the remaining 5% is exposed rock.
antarctica: Most of Antarctica is covered by the Antarctic ice sheet, with an average thickness of 1.9 km (1.2 mi).
antarctica: The interior is drier and receives less than 50 mm (2 in) per year, whereas the coastal regions typically receive more than 200 mm (8 in).
antarctica: About 70% of the world's freshwater reserves are frozen in Antarctica, which, if melted, would raise global sea levels by almost 60 metres (200 ft).
antarctica: Antarctica is defined as all land and ice shelves south of 60° S for the purposes of the Treaty System.
antarctica: Invertebrate life of Antarctica includes species of microscopic mites such as Alaskozetes antarcticus, lice, fleas (Glaciopsyllus antarcticus), nematodes, tardigrades, rotifers, krill and springtails.
antarctica: The geology of Antarctica, largely obscured by the continental ice sheet, can be studied via techniques such as remote sensing, ground-penetrating radar, and satellite imagery.
antarctica: McDonald Beach is known to be a high-traffic area for tourists watching the Adélie penguin population there.
antarctica: The same features can be observed in algae and cyanobacteria, suggesting that they are adaptations to the conditions prevailing in Antarctica.
antarctica: Despite these regulations, illegal fishing—particularly of the highly prized Patagonian toothfish which is marketed as Chilean sea bass in the U.S.—remains a problem.
antarctica: Antarctica was adopted in the 1890s, with the first use of the name being attributed to the Scottish cartographer John George Bartholomew.
antarctica: There is no evidence of any tetrapods having lived in Antarctica during the Paleozoic.
antarctica: Antarctica is divided into West Antarctica and East Antarctica by the Transantarctic Mountains, which stretch from Victoria Land to the Ross Sea.
antarctica: West Antarctica was formed by the merging of several continental plates, which created a number of mountain ranges in the region, the most prominent being the Ellsworth Mountains.
antarctica: Overland sightseeing flights operated out of Australia and New Zealand until the Mount Erebus disaster in 1979, when an Air New Zealand plane crashed into Mount Erebus, killing all of the 257 people on board.
antarctica: It drifted closer to the South Pole, and the climate cooled, though flora remained.
antarctica: The oldest known human remains in the Antarctic region was a skull, dated from 1819 to 1825, that belonged to a young woman on Yamana Beach at the South Shetland Islands.
antarctica: Russia inherited the Soviet Union's right to claim territory under the original Antarctic Treaty.
antarctica: During the early 19th century, explorer Matthew Flinders doubted the existence of a detached continent south of Australia (then called New Holland) and thus advocated for the "Terra Australis" name to be used for Australia instead.
antarctica: The 1987 Montreal Protocol has restricted the emissions of ozone-depleting substances.
antarctica: Early world maps, like the 1513 Piri Reis map, feature the hypothetical continent Terra Australis.
antarctica: The British naval officer James Clark Ross failed to realise that what he referred to as "the various patches of land recently discovered by the American, French and English navigators on the verge of the Antarctic Circle" were connected to form a single continent.
antarctica: Other associated Triassic flora included ginkgophytes, cycadophytes, conifers, and sphenopsids.
antarctica: Generis Publishing.
antarctica: The Argentine, British, and Chilean claims overlap and have caused friction.
antarctica: It is one of the world's coldest and driest places—temperatures there reach as low as −90 °C (−130 °F), and the annual precipitation is 1–3 cm (0.39–1.18 in).
antarctica: Many nations release strategy reports designed to guide their research efforts on Antarctica.
antarctica: ISBN 978-18974-7-235-4 – via Internet Archive.
antarctica: The South Pole was next reached on 31 October 1956, when a U.S.
antarctica: Instead, countries adopted the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty (the Madrid Protocol), which entered into force in 1998.
antarctica: and London: McFarland.
antarctica: ISBN 978-1-85368-743-3.
antarctica: ISBN 978-0-7864-3590-6.
antarctica: The first confirmed landing was by a Norwegian team in 1895.
antarctica: The UK passed some of the areas it claimed to Australia and New Zealand after they achieved independence.
antarctica: Association football has been played since the early twentieth century, with teams representing bases or visiting ships.
antarctica: This Convention on the Regulation of Antarctic Mineral Resource Activities was adopted in 1988.
antarctica: There are over 70 permanent and seasonal research stations on the continent; the largest, United States' McMurdo Station, is capable of housing more than 1,000 people.
antarctica: Despite these protections, the biodiversity in Antarctica is still at risk from human activities.
antarctica: In West Antarctica, coniferous forests dominated throughout the Cretaceous period (146–66 Ma), though southern beech trees (Nothofagus) became prominent towards the end of the Cretaceous.
antarctica: From the end of the Neoproterozoic era to the Cretaceous, Antarctica was part of the supercontinent Gondwana.
antarctica: The sighting happened three days before Bransfield sighted the land of the Trinity Peninsula of Antarctica, as opposed to the ice of an ice shelf, and 10 months before Palmer did so in November 1820.
antarctica: The first person to see Antarctica or its ice shelf was long thought to have been the British sailor Edward Bransfield, a captain in the Royal Navy, who discovered the tip of the Antarctic peninsula on 30 January 1820.
antarctica: Antarctica provides a unique environment for the study of meteorites: the dry polar desert preserves them well, and meteorites older than a million years have been found.
antarctica: ISBN 9781844866212.
antarctica: It was once believed that the lake had been sealed off for millions of years, but scientists now estimate its water is replaced by the slow melting and freezing of ice caps every 13,000 years.
antarctica: Among the fiction films shot partly or entirely in Antarctica are Mr.
antarctica: Antarcticus is derived from the Greek ἀντι- ('anti-') and ἀρκτικός (arktikos, 'of the Bear [Ursa Major], northern').
antarctica: Around 53 Ma, Australia-New Guinea separated from Antarctica, opening the Tasmanian Passage.
antarctica: In the dry valleys, the same effect occurs over a rock base, leading to a barren and desiccated landscape.
antarctica: Heavy snowfalls are common on the coastal portion of Antarctica, where snowfalls of up to 1.22 m (48 in) in 48 hours have been recorded.
antarctica: Terra Australis was therefore the name used to refer to all hypothetical landmasses proposed to be where Antarctica is now known to exist.
antarctica: Cook came within about 120 km (75 mi) of the Antarctic coast before retreating in the face of field ice in January 1773.
antarctica: The use of geographic remote sensing, mapping and aerial photography to aid in the recovery of blue ice surficial meteorites in Antarctica.
antarctica: In 1985, British scientists, working on data they had gathered at Halley Research Station on the Brunt Ice Shelf, discovered a large area of low ozone concentration over Antarctica.
antarctica: The treaty set aside Antarctica as a scientific preserve and established freedom of scientific investigation and environmental protection.
antarctica: Antarctic sea life includes penguins, blue whales, orcas, colossal squids and fur seals.
antarctica: Models of Antarctic geography suggest that this current, as well as a feedback loop caused by lowering CO2 levels, caused the creation of small yet permanent polar ice caps.
antarctica: Weather fronts rarely penetrate far into the continent, leaving the centre cold and dry, with moderate wind speeds.
antarctica: South Africa formally reserved its right to make a claim.
antarctica: The presence of the West Antarctic Rift System has resulted in volcanism along the border between West and East Antarctica, as well as the creation of the Transantarctic Mountains.
antarctica: Antarctica: An Encyclopedia.
antarctica: The Belgian Princess Elisabeth station is one of the most modern stations and the first to be carbon-neutral.
antarctica: The Greek philosopher Aristotle wrote in Meteorology about an "Antarctic region" in c.
antarctica: The lowest natural air temperature ever recorded on Earth was −89.2 °C (−128.6 °F) at the Russian Vostok Station in Antarctica on 21 July 1983.
antarctica: During the Triassic period, Antarctica was dominated by seed ferns (pteridosperms) belonging to the genus Dicroidium, which grew as trees.
antarctica: In the early 20th century, there were a few expeditions into the interior of the continent.
antarctica: The United States reserved its right to make a claim in the original Antarctic Treaty.
antarctica: While a few of these countries have mutually recognised each other's claims, the validity of the claims is not recognised universally.
antarctica: The Adelie Land meteorite, discovered in 1912, was the first to be found.
antarctica: Africa separated from Antarctica in the Jurassic around 160 Ma, followed by the Indian subcontinent in the early Cretaceous (about 125 Ma).
antarctica: Antarctica covers more than 14.2 million km2 (5,500,000 sq mi), almost double the area of Australia, making it the fifth-largest continent, and comparable to the surface area of Pluto.
antarctica: The Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, which came into effect in 1998 and is due to be reviewed in 2048, restricts the exploitation of Antarctic resources, including minerals.
antarctica: At the end of the Permian, the climate became drier and hotter over much of Gondwana, and the glossopterid forest ecosystems collapsed as part of the Permian–Triassic extinction event.
antarctica: Most species in Antarctica seem to be the descendants of species that lived there millions of years ago.
antarctica: Several Antarctic ice streams flow to one of the many Antarctic ice shelves, a process described by ice-sheet dynamics.
antarctica: The name given to the continent originates from the word antarctic, which comes from Middle French antartique or antarctique ('opposite to the Arctic') and, in turn, the Latin antarcticus ('opposite to the north').
antarctica: Native species of animals include mites, nematodes, penguins, seals and tardigrades.
antarctica: During the summer months, about 5,000 people reside at research stations, a figure that drops to around 1,000 in the winter.
antarctica: It is mainly a polar desert, with annual precipitation of over 200 mm (8 in) along the coast and far less inland.
antarctica: In 1539, the King of Spain, Charles V, created the Governorate of Terra Australis, which encompassed lands south of the Strait of Magellan and thus the then-hypothetical Antarctica, granting this Governorate to Pedro Sancho de la Hoz.
antarctica: Bacteria have also been found as deep as 800 m (0.50 mi) under the ice.
antarctica: The Antarctic fur seal was very heavily hunted in the 18th and 19th centuries for its pelt by seal hunters from the United States and the United Kingdom.
antarctica: The Prince Charles Mountains contain deposits of iron ore.
antarctica: Stewart, John (2011).
antarctica: Stuttgart: Bornträger Science Publisher.
antarctica: During the Nimrod Expedition led by the British explorer Ernest Shackleton in 1907, parties led by Edgeworth David became the first to climb Mount Erebus and to reach the south magnetic pole.
antarctica: Official website of the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat (de facto government)
High resolution map (2022) – Reference Elevation Model of Antarctica (REMA)
Antarctica.
antarctica: Their thick-walled and strongly melanised cells make them resistant to UV radiation.
antarctica: Deposits of coal, hydrocarbons, iron ore, platinum, copper, chromium, nickel, gold, and other minerals have been found in Antarctica, but not in large enough quantities to extract.
antarctica: The First Russian Antarctic Expedition, led by Bellingshausen and Mikhail Lazarev on the 985-ton sloop-of-war Vostok and the 530-ton support vessel Mirny, reached a point within 32 km (20 mi) of Queen Maud Land and recorded sighting an ice shelf at 69°21′28″S 2°14′50″W, on 27 January 1820.
antarctica: The ozone hole above Antarctica is predicted to slowly disappear; by the 2060s, levels of ozone are expected to have returned to values last recorded in the 1980s.
antarctica: East Antarctica is geologically varied.
antarctica: The number of people conducting and supporting scientific research and other work on the continent and its nearby islands varies from about 1,200 in winter to about 4,800 in the summer, with an additional 136 people in the winter to 266 people in the summer from the 2 civilian bases (as of 2017).
antarctica: During the Cambrian period, Gondwana had a mild climate.
antarctica: When the ice begins to melt, brine pockets expand and can combine to form brine channels, and the algae inside the pockets can reawaken and thrive until the next freeze.
antarctica: After a strong campaign from environmental organisations, first Australia and then France decided not to ratify the treaty.
antarctica: In the summer of 1996–1997, Norwegian explorer Børge Ousland became the first person to cross Antarctica alone from coast to coast, helped by a kite on parts of the journey.
antarctica: Tourists arrive by small or medium ship at specific scenic locations with accessible concentrations of iconic wildlife.
antarctica: In coastal areas such as the Shackleton Range and Victoria Land, some faulting has occurred.
antarctica: Multicoloured snow algae are especially abundant in the coastal regions during the summer.
antarctica: Researchers uncovered ecosystems unexpectedly rich in large corals, ancient sponges, icefish, giant sea spiders, and even octopuses at depths of up to 1,300 metres (4,300 ft).
antarctica: Caroline Mikkelsen had landed on an island of Antarctica, earlier in 1935.
antarctica: A Census of Marine Life by some 500 researchers during the International Polar Year was released in 2010.
antarctica: The lakes that lie at the base of the continental ice sheet occur mainly in the McMurdo Dry Valleys or various oases.
antarctica: Lucas, Mike (1996).
antarctica: Some species of marine animals exist and rely, directly or indirectly, on phytoplankton.
antarctica: Douglas Mawson, who assumed the leadership of the Magnetic Pole party on their perilous return, retired in 1931.
antarctica: In 1775, he called the existence of a polar continent "probable", and in another copy of his journal he wrote: "[I] firmly believe it and it's more than probable that we have seen a part of it".
antarctica: Some of the research stations are staffed year-round, the winter-over personnel typically arriving from their home countries for a one-year assignment.
antarctica: They searched for a more poetic replacement, suggesting names such as Ultima and Antipodea.
antarctica: The treaty was signed by twelve countries, including the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, Argentina, Chile, Australia, and the United States.
antarctica: The continued warming dried out much of Gondwana.
antarctica: Antarctic English, a distinct variety of the English language, has been found to be spoken by people living on Antarctica and the subantarctic islands.
antarctica: The primary response by Antarctic Treaty parties has been to develop guidelines that set landing limits and closed or restricted zones on the more frequently visited sites.
antarctica: West Antarctica was partially in the Northern Hemisphere, and during the time, large amounts of sandstones, limestones, and shales were deposited.
antarctica: The overfishing of krill (an animal that plays a large role in the Antarctic ecosystem) led officials to enact regulations on fishing.
antarctica: Models suggest that ozone depletion and the enhanced polar vortex effect may also account for the period of increasing sea ice extent, lasting from when observation started in the late 1970s until 2014.
antarctica: In the present, sovereignty over regions of Antarctica is claimed by seven different countries.
antarctica: The existence of life there is thought to strengthen the argument for the possibility of life on Jupiter's moon Europa, which may have water beneath its water-ice crust.
antarctica: They are relatively easy to find, as the dark stone meteorites stand out in a landscape of ice and snow, and the flow of ice accumulates them in certain areas.
antarctica: Antarctica's status is regulated by the 1959 Antarctic Treaty and other related agreements, collectively called the Antarctic Treaty System.
antarctica: One month later, the doomed Terra Nova Expedition reached the pole.
antarctica: Decisions are based on consensus, instead of a vote.
antarctica: Its formation began during the Archean Eon (4,000 Ma–2,500 Ma), and stopped during the Cambrian Period.
antarctica: The American explorer Richard E.
antarctica: Countries can participate in decision-making if they can demonstrate that they do significant research on Antarctica; as of 2022, 29 countries have this 'consultative status'.
antarctica: Edmonton: Golden Meteorite Press.
antarctica: The first confirmed landing on the continental mass of Antarctica occurred in 1895 when the Norwegian-Swedish whaling ship Antarctic reached Cape Adare.
antarctica: The Antarctic Peninsula began to form during the Jurassic period (206 to 146 million years ago).
antarctica: Scientists also observed higher radiation dose rates around the coast of Antarctica compared with the global average: this is attributed to cosmic rays going through the thinner atmosphere compared to equatorial latitudes.
antarctica: The organizers, performers, and attendees of Icestock are all personnel working at McMurdo or nearby Scott Base.
antarctica: During the early Paleogene, the Antarctic land bridge continued to connect Antarctica with South America as well as to southeastern Australia.
antarctica: Antarctic krill, which congregates in large schools, is the keystone species of the ecosystem of the Southern Ocean, being an important food organism for whales, seals, leopard seals, fur seals, squid, icefish, and many bird species, such as penguins and albatrosses.
antarctica: Antarctica is, on average, the coldest, driest, and windiest of the continents, and has the highest average elevation.
antarctica: Geologically, West Antarctica closely resembles the South American Andes.
antarctica: The Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary was established in 1994 by the International Whaling Commission.
antarctica: The coastal regions can reach temperatures over 10 °C (50 °F) in the summer.
antarctica: This has led to speculation that life on Mars might have been similar to Antarctic fungi, such as Cryomyces antarcticus and Cryomyces minteri.
antarctica: Rivers exist in Antarctica; the longest is the Onyx.
antarctica: According to the terms of the treaty, military activity, mining, nuclear explosions, and nuclear waste disposal are all prohibited in Antarctica.
antarctica: During the whaling era, which lasted until 1966, the population of the island varied from over 1,000 in the summer (over 2,000 in some years) to some 200 in the winter.
antarctica: Ecosystems are impacted by local and global threats, notably pollution, the invasion of non-native species, and the various effects of climate change.
antarctica: Positioned asymmetrically around the South Pole and largely south of the Antarctic Circle (one of the five major circles of latitude that mark maps of the world), Antarctica is surrounded by the Southern Ocean.
antarctica: By the start of the Devonian period (416 Ma), Gondwana was in more southern latitudes, and the climate was cooler, though fossils of land plants are known from then.
antarctica: Specially protected areas cover less than 2% of the area and provide better protection for animals with popular appeal than for less visible animals.
antarctica: Biologists, in addition to researching wildlife, are interested in how low temperatures and the presence of humans affect adaptation and survival strategies in organisms.
antarctica: Brazil has a designated "zone of interest" that is not considered an actual claim.
antarctica: It consists of around 5,500 digital optical modules, some of which reach a depth of 2,450 m (8,040 ft), that are held in 1 km3 (0.24 cu mi) of ice.
antarctica: Byrd led four expeditions to Antarctica during the 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s, using the first mechanised tractors.
antarctica: The largest neutrino detector in the world, the IceCube Neutrino Observatory, is at the Amundsen-Scott Station.
antarctica: These ecosystems may harbor novel species that have remained concealed for centuries, sustained by nutrient-bearing ocean currents.
antarctica: The flightless midge Belgica antarctica, the largest purely terrestrial animal in Antarctica, reaches 6 mm (1⁄4 in) in size.
antarctica: At the continent's edge, strong katabatic winds off the polar plateau often blow at storm force.
antarctica: There are approximately 40 bird species that breed on or close to Antarctica, including species of petrels, penguins, cormorants, and gulls.
antarctica: Most meteorites come from asteroids, but a few meteorites found in Antarctica came from the Moon and Mars.
antarctica: The peripheral areas of Antarctica, especially the Antarctic Peninsula, are then subjected to higher temperatures, which accelerate the melting of the ice.
antarctica: The research found that more than 235 marine organisms live in both polar regions, having bridged the gap of 12,000 km (7,456 mi).
antarctica: The clouds act as catalysts for chemical reactions, which eventually lead to the destruction of ozone.
antarctica: On 14 December 1911, an expedition led by Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen from the ship Fram became the first to reach the geographic South Pole, using a route from the Bay of Whales and up the Axel Heiberg Glacier.
antarctica: on In Our Time at the BBC
British Antarctic Survey (BAS)
U.S.
antarctica: Antarctica: A History in 100 Objects.
antarctica: In 1937, Ingrid Christensen became the first woman to step onto the Antarctic mainland.
antarctica: Over the following decades, geographers used phrases such as "the Antarctic Continent".
antarctica: Robertson Land, Wilkes Land, and Victoria Land.
antarctica: Over 74,000 tourists visited the region during the 2019–2020 season, of which 18,500 travelled on cruise ships but did not leave them to explore on land.
antarctica: Much Antarctic tourism is based around bird watching tours due to the high numbers of penguins on the continent.
antarctica: Several countries with research stations in Antarctica allow their citizens stationed in the continent to vote in their elections.
antarctica: ISBN 979-8-88676-403-1
antarctica: Christianity is the most common Antarctic religion, with 8 chapels of various Christian denominations located there; due to the difficulties involved with transporting religious officials to the continent most services are performed online.
antarctica: All commercial whaling is banned in the zone, though Japan has continued to hunt whales in the area, ostensibly for research purposes.
antarctica: Tourism is subject to the provisions of the Antarctic Treaty and Environmental Protocol; the self-regulatory body for the industry is the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators.
antarctica: Lake Vostok, discovered beneath Russia's Vostok Station, is the largest subglacial lake globally and one of the largest lakes in the world.
antarctica: In 2012, after the British Foreign & Commonwealth Office designated a previously unnamed area Queen Elizabeth Land in tribute to Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee, the Argentine government protested against the claim.
antarctica: Throughout its history, Antarctica has seen a wide variety of plant life.
antarctica: The Madrid Protocol bans all mining, designating the continent as a "natural reserve devoted to peace and science".
antarctica: Near the coast, the temperature can exceed 10 °C in summer and fall to below −40 °C in winter.
antarctica: The flora largely consists of bryophytes (25 species of liverworts and 100 species of mosses).
antarctica: There are more terrestrial protected areas than marine protected areas.
antarctica: The vast majority of Antarctica is covered by the Antarctic ice sheet, which averages 1.9 km (1.2 mi) in thickness.
antarctica: In 2017, there were more than 4,400 scientists undertaking research in Antarctica, a number that fell to just over 1,100 in the winter.
antarctica: About 80 million years ago, flowering plants became the most diverse groups of plants on the continent.
antarctica: There are oil and natural gas fields in the Ross Sea.
antarctica: The emperor penguin is the only penguin that breeds during the winter in Antarctica; it and the Adélie penguin breed farther south than any other penguin.
antarctica: In 1824, the colonial authorities in Sydney officially renamed the continent of New Holland to Australia, leaving the term "Terra Australis" unavailable as a reference to Antarctica.
antarctica: Dufek landed an aircraft there.
antarctica: The most prominent exceptions to this are the islands of the Kerguelen Plateau, the earliest of which formed around 40 Ma.
antarctica: The Antarctic Peninsula was formed by geologic uplift and the transformation of sea bed sediments into metamorphic rocks.
antarctica: New claims on Antarctica have been suspended since 1959, although in 2015, Norway formally defined Queen Maud Land as including the unclaimed area between it and the South Pole.
antarctica: The Drake Passage opened between Antarctica and South America around 30 Ma, resulting in the creation of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current that completely isolated the continent.
antarctica: Leopard seals are apex predators in the Antarctic ecosystem and migrate across the Southern Ocean in search of food.
antarctica: An Antarctic endemic species, the crust-like lichen Buellia frigida, has been used as a model organism in astrobiology research.
antarctica: Sand and silts were laid down in what is now the Ellsworth, Horlick, and Pensacola Mountains.
antarctica: The extreme cold conditions of Antarctica allow polar stratospheric clouds to form.
antarctica: Modern Antarctica was formed as Gondwana gradually broke apart beginning around 183 Ma.
antarctica: Some of the species, having evolved under extreme conditions, have colonised structural cavities within porous rocks and have contributed to shaping the rock formations of the McMurdo Dry Valleys and surrounding mountain ridges.
antarctica: Fauna from the La Meseta Formation in the Antarctic Peninsula, dating to the Eocene, is very similar to equivalent South American faunas; with marsupials, xenarthrans, litoptern, and astrapotherian ungulates, as well as gondwanatheres and possibly meridiolestidans.
antarctica: The ozone depletion can cause a cooling of around 6 °C (11 °F) in the stratosphere.
antarctica: European ideas regarding the existence of a Terra Australis—a vast continent in the far south of the globe to balance the northern lands of Europe, Asia, and North Africa—had existed as an intellectual concept since classical antiquity.
antarctica: In a few blue-ice areas, the wind and sublimation remove more snow than is accumulated by precipitation.
antarctica: The simplified morphology of such fungi, along with their similar biological structures, metabolism systems capable of remaining active at very low temperatures, and reduced life cycles, make them well suited to such environments.
antarctica: The American captain Charles Wilkes led an expedition in 1838–1839 and was the first to claim he had discovered the continent.
antarctica: The first semi-permanent inhabitants of regions near Antarctica (areas situated south of the Antarctic Convergence) were British and American sealers who used to spend a year or more on South Georgia, from 1786 onward.
antarctica: Where vegetation occurs, it is mostly in the form of lichen or moss.
antarctica: The woman, who was likely to have been part of a sealing expedition, was found in 1985.
antarctica: Peru formally reserved its right to make a claim.
antarctica: WIFFA is open to short films of 5 minutes or less, shot during a 48-hour window.
antarctica: Mount Erebus on Ross Island is the world's southernmost active volcano and erupts around 10 times each day.
antarctica: For a large proportion of the Phanerozoic, Antarctica had a tropical or temperate climate, and it was covered in forests.
antarctica: Other plants found in Antarctica during the Permian include Cordaitales, sphenopsids, ferns, and lycophytes.
antarctica: Navy group led by Rear Admiral George J.
antarctica: A combination of freezing temperatures, poor soil quality, and a lack of moisture and sunlight inhibit plant growth, causing low species diversity and limited distribution.
antarctica: It is thought to be likely that there exists a native bacterial community within the subterranean water body of Lake Vostok.
antarctica: Antarctic Program Portal
antarctica: Antarctica is the coldest, windiest, and driest of Earth's continents.
antarctica: The American sealer Nathaniel Palmer, whose sealing ship was in the region at this time, may also have been the first to sight the Antarctic Peninsula.
antarctica: Situated almost entirely south of the Antarctic Circle and surrounded by the Southern Ocean (also known as the Antarctic Ocean), it contains the geographic South Pole.
antarctica: In January 2025, the detachment of the massive iceberg A-84 (comparable in size to the city of Chicago) from the George VI Ice Shelf provided a rare opportunity to explore the seafloor beneath floating ice shelves using robotic submersibles.
antarctica: Ginkgo trees, conifers, Bennettitales, horsetails, ferns and cycads were plentiful during the time.
antarctica: Antarctica is colder than the Arctic region, as much of Antarctica is over 3,000 m (9,800 ft) above sea level, where air temperatures are colder.
antarctica: On top of the base are coal and sandstones, limestones, and shales that were laid down during the Devonian and Jurassic periods to form the Transantarctic Mountains.
antarctica: The claims by Britain, Australia, New Zealand, France, and Norway do not overlap and are recognised by each other.
antarctica: After deglaciation during the latter half of the Early Permian, the land became dominated by glossopterids (an extinct group of seed plants with no close living relatives), most prominently Glossopteris, a tree interpreted as growing in waterlogged soils, which formed extensive coal deposits.
antarctica: There are three species of flowering plants, all of which are found in the Antarctic Peninsula: Deschampsia antarctica (Antarctic hair grass), Colobanthus quitensis (Antarctic pearlwort) and the non-native Poa annua (annual bluegrass).
antarctica: The cooling strengthens the polar vortex and so prevents the outflow of the cold air near the South Pole, which in turn cools the continental mass of the East Antarctic ice sheet.
antarctica: Forbush and the Penguins, a 1971 British comedy starring John Hurt; Antarctica, a 1983 Japanese survival drama with music by Vangelis; and South of Sanity, a 2012 low-budget British horror.
antarctica: Most of the whalers were Norwegian, with an increasing proportion from Britain.
antarctica: Ousland holds the record for the fastest unsupported journey to the South Pole, taking 34 days.
antarctica: The ice shelves of Antarctica were probably first seen in 1820, during a Russian expedition led by Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen and Mikhail Lazarev.
antarctica: During the summer, more solar radiation reaches the surface at the South Pole than at the equator because of the 24 hours of sunlight received there each day.
antarctica: Tourists have been visiting Antarctica since 1957.
antarctica: Biomedical scientists have made discoveries concerning the spreading of viruses and the body's response to extreme seasonal temperatures.
antarctica: Qantas resumed commercial overflights to Antarctica from Australia in the mid-1990s.
antarctica: Antarctica's population consists mostly of the staff of research stations in Antarctica (which are continuously maintained despite the population decline in the winter), although there are 2 all-civilian bases in Antarctica: the Esperanza Base and the Villa Las Estrellas base.
antarctica: New Holland Publishers.
antarctica: ISBN 978-3-443-11034-5.
antarctica: It covers 50 million km2 (19 million sq mi) and completely surrounds the Antarctic continent.
antarctica: Factors that may aid in their distribution include temperature differences between the deep ocean at the poles and the equator of no more than 5 °C (9 °F) and the major current systems or marine conveyor belts which are able to transport eggs and larva.
antarctica: Since then, the coverage of Antarctic sea ice has decreased rapidly.
antarctica: The World of Antarctica.
antarctica: The first documented landing on Antarctica was by the English-born American sealer John Davis, apparently at Hughes Bay on 7 February 1821, although some historians dispute this claim, as there is no evidence Davis landed on the Antarctic continent rather than an offshore island.
antarctica: The first international agreement to protect Antarctica's biodiversity was adopted in 1964.
antarctica: Between December 1908 and February 1909, Shackleton and three members of his expedition became the first humans to traverse the Ross Ice Shelf, the first to cross the Transantarctic Mountains (via the Beardmore Glacier), and the first to set foot on the south Polar Plateau.
antarctica: Meteorites contain clues about the composition of the Solar System and its early development.
antarctica: Ivanov, Lyubomir; Ivanova, Nusha (2022).
antarctica: Large animals such as some cetaceans and birds make the round trip annually.
antarctica: The British Antarctic Survey has five major research stations on Antarctica, one of which is completely portable.
antarctica: The view of space from Earth is improved by a thinner atmosphere at higher elevations and a lack of water vapour in the atmosphere caused by freezing temperatures.
antarctica: The pressure group Greenpeace established a base on Ross Island from 1987 to 1992 as part of its attempt to establish the continent as a World Park.
antarctica: As such, they must have survived multiple glacial cycles.
antarctica: The ice dome known as Dome Argus in East Antarctica is the highest Antarctic ice feature, at 4,091 metres (13,422 ft).
antarctica: Antarctica became glaciated during the Late Paleozoic icehouse beginning at the end of the Devonian period (360 Ma), though glaciation would substantially increase during the late Carboniferous.
antarctica: Assertion of the presence of such a land lasted until the European discovery of Australia.
antarctica: The ice sheet extends to all but a few oases, which, with the exception of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, are located in coastal areas.
antarctica: Antarctica is a polar desert with little precipitation; the continent receives an average equivalent to about 150 mm (6 in) of water per year, mostly in the form of snow.
antarctica: There exists a community of extremophile bacteria in the highly alkaline waters of Lake Untersee.
antarctica: Synapsids (also known as "mammal-like reptiles") included species such as Lystrosaurus, and were common during the Early Triassic.
antarctica: The geology of the Antarctic continent.
antarctica: The Greek geographer Marinus of Tyre reportedly used the name in his world map from the second century AD, now lost.
antarctica: British explorers Douglas Mawson, Edgeworth David, and Alistair Mackay were the first to reach the magnetic South Pole in 1909, and the geographic South Pole was first reached in 1911 by Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen.
antarctica: Captain James Cook's ships, HMS Resolution and Adventure, crossed the Antarctic Circle on 17 January 1773, in December 1773, and again in January 1774.
antarctica: The depletion is caused by the emission of chlorofluorocarbons and halons into the atmosphere, which causes ozone to break down into other gases.
antarctica: There are two principal holidays celebrated across Antarctica: Midwinter Day on the day of the southern winter solstice (June 20 or 21) and Antarctica Day on December 1, which commemorates the signing of the Antarctic Treaty in 1959.
antarctica: Sporting events held on Antarctica include the Antarctic Ice Marathon & 100k ultra race, Antarctica Marathon and Antarctica Cup Yacht Race.
antarctica: East Antarctica was at the equator, where seafloor invertebrates and trilobites flourished in the tropical seas.
antarctica: The climate of present-day Antarctica does not allow extensive vegetation to form.
antarctica: Emilio Marcos Palma was the first person born on the Antarctic mainland at the Esperanza Base of the Argentine Army, on 7 January 1978.
antarctica: Conway Publishing.
antarctica: Since 1959, a further 42 countries have acceded to the treaty.
antarctica: Smaller forms of life, such as sea cucumbers and free-swimming snails, are also found in both polar oceans.
antarctica: The prevalence of highly resilient creatures in such inhospitable areas could further bolster the argument for extraterrestrial life in cold, methane-rich environments.
antarctica: Antarctica is the fifth-largest continent, being about 40% larger than Europe, and has an area of 14,200,000 km2 (5,500,000 sq mi).
antarctica: Even sea ice can harbour unique ecological communities, as it expels all salt from the water when it freezes, which accumulates into pockets of brine that also harbour dormant microorganisms.
antarctica: During the summer, the ice at the edges of the lakes can melt, and liquid moats temporarily form.
antarctica: During the colder Neogene (17–2.5 Ma), a tundra ecosystem replaced the rainforests.
antarctica: Marsupials are thought to have dispersed into Australia from South America via Antarctica by the early Eocene.
antarctica: The Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, an international treaty that came into force in 1980, regulates fisheries, aiming to preserve ecological relationships.
antarctica: Antarctica has both saline and freshwater lakes.
antarctica: Sealers were among the earliest to go closer to the Antarctic landmass, perhaps in the earlier part of the 19th century.
antarctica: The species survived the periods of extremely cold climate in isolated warmer areas, such as those with geothermal heat or areas that remained ice-free throughout the colder climate.
antarctica: Six women were flown to the South Pole as a publicity stunt in 1969.
antarctica: A lower air temperature of −94.7 °C (−138.5 °F) was recorded in 2010 by satellite—however, it may have been influenced by ground temperatures and was not recorded at a height of 2 m (7 ft) above the surface as required for official air temperature records.
antarctica: The American explorer Mercator Cooper landed on East Antarctica on 26 January 1853.
antarctica: Argentina, Australia, Chile, and Russia also have a large scientific presence on Antarctica.
antarctica: Tourism, fishing and research are the main human activities in and around Antarctica.
antarctica: The decades that followed saw further exploration by French, American, and British expeditions.
antarctica: The relative warmth of the Arctic Ocean is transferred through the Arctic sea ice and moderates temperatures in the Arctic region.
antarctica: As CO2 levels declined further the ice began to spread rapidly, replacing the forests that until then had covered Antarctica.
antarctica: The first child born in the southern polar region was a Norwegian girl, Solveig Gunbjørg Jacobsen, born in Grytviken on 8 October 1913.
antarctica: Ash from eruptions has been found 300 kilometres (190 mi) from the volcanic crater.
antarctica: Scientists have studied the ozone layer in the atmosphere above Antarctica since the 1970s.
antarctica: Glaciologists study the history and dynamics of floating ice, seasonal snow, glaciers, and ice sheets.
antarctica: Vinson Massif, in the Ellsworth Mountains, is the highest peak in Antarctica at 4,892 m (16,050 ft).
antarctica: Despite the continent's remoteness, human activity has a significant effect on it via pollution, ozone depletion, and climate change.
antarctica: All but a small portion of the region lies within the Eastern Hemisphere.
antarctica: Some nature conservation groups have expressed concern over the potential adverse effects caused by the influx of visitors and have called for limits on the size of visiting cruise ships and a tourism quota.
antarctica: Other member nations of the Antarctic Treaty do not recognise any claim, yet have shown some form of territorial interest in the past.
antarctica: The 'ozone hole' covers almost the whole continent and was at its largest in September 2006; the longest-lasting event occurred in 2020.
antarctica: East Antarctica is largely covered by the East Antarctic Ice Sheet.
antarctica: Over the elevated inland, it can rise to about −30 °C in summer but fall below −80 °C in winter.
antarctica: Spain claimed all the territories to the south of the Strait of Magellan until the South Pole, with eastern and western borders to these claims specified in the Treaty of Tordesillas and Zaragoza respectively.
antarctica: There is evidence of a large number of volcanoes under the ice, which could pose a risk to the ice sheet if activity levels were to rise.
antarctica: Antarctica is governed by about 30 countries, all of which are parties of the 1959 Antarctic Treaty System.
antarctica: Antarctica.
antarctica: Jefferson, N.C.
antarctica: There are numerous islands surrounding Antarctica, most of which are volcanic and very young by geological standards.
antarctica: Tundra ecosystems continued to exist on Antarctica until around 14–10 million years ago, when further cooling lead to their extermination.
antarctica: In analogy to the 1980 treaty on sustainable fishing, countries led by New Zealand and the United States negotiated a treaty on mining.
antarctica: Antarctica holds the record for the lowest measured temperature on Earth, −89.2 °C (−128.6 °F).
antarctica: Some of the species of fungi, which are apparently endemic to Antarctica, live in bird dung, and have evolved so they can grow inside extremely cold dung, but can also pass through the intestines of warm-blooded animals.
antarctica: Coal was first recorded in Antarctica near the Beardmore Glacier by Frank Wild on the Nimrod Expedition in 1907, and low-grade coal is known to exist across many parts of the Transantarctic Mountains.
