antisemitism: Antisemitism in the USSR reached new heights after 1948 during the campaign against the "rootless cosmopolitan" (euphemism for "Jew") in which numerous Yiddish-language poets, writers, painters, and sculptors were killed or arrested.
antisemitism: In 2016, the working definition was adopted by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance.
antisemitism: According to Pinsker, this irrational fear was an inherited predisposition.
antisemitism: Since the early 20th century, there has been a sharp rise in antisemitic incidents across the Arab world, largely due to the advent of Arab antisemitic conspiracy theories, which were influenced by European antisemitic conspiracy theories.
antisemitism: The 18th-century English historian Edward Gibbon identified a more tolerant period in Roman–Jewish relations beginning in about 160 CE.
antisemitism: In addition, Jews were forced to convert to Islam or face death in some parts of Yemen, Morocco and Baghdad several times between the 12th and 18th centuries.
antisemitism: Philosophers and intellectuals have often used 'Jewishness' as a foil to explore and define their ideas.
antisemitism: As a psychic disorder, it is hereditary, and as a disease transmitted for two thousand years it is incurable...
antisemitism: Manetho, an Egyptian priest and historian of that era, wrote scathingly of the Jews.
antisemitism: Rehabilitation of Nazism can also be accomplished on an individual scale.
antisemitism: IHRA's Working definition of antisemitism is among the most controversial documents related to opposition to antisemitism, and critics argue that it has been used to censor criticism of Israel.
antisemitism: According to historian William Korey, "Judaism was singled out for condemnation as prescribing 'racial exclusivism' and as justifying 'crimes against 'Gentiles.'"
Similar antisemitic propaganda in Poland resulted in the flight of Polish Jewish survivors from the country.
antisemitism: Holocaust denial and Jewish conspiracy theories are also considered forms of antisemitism.
antisemitism: In September 2022, the Program on Extremism at George Washington University published a report which said the largest threat came from "individuals loosely affiliated with or inspired by the movement", rather than from formal members of Black Hebrew Israelite organizations.
antisemitism: Peter Stuyvesant, the Dutch governor of New Amsterdam, implemented plans to prevent Jews from settling in the city.
antisemitism: According to Carroll, who first cites O'Hare and Bauer on "the existence of something called 'Semitism'", "the hyphenated word thus reflects the bipolarity that is at the heart of the problem of antisemitism".
antisemitism: The EUMC working definition was adopted by the European Parliament Working Group on Antisemitism in 2010, by the United States Department of State in 2017, in the Operational Hate Crime Guidance of the UK College of Policing in 2014 and by the UK's Campaign Against Antisemitism.
antisemitism: Antisemitism can also be found in many of the Grimms' Fairy Tales by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm, published from 1812 to 1857.
antisemitism: The precise number of dead may never be known, but the decrease of the Jewish population during that period is estimated at 100,000 to 200,000, which also includes emigration, deaths from diseases, and captivity in the Ottoman Empire, called jasyr.
antisemitism: The pamphlet became very popular, and in the same year Marr founded the Antisemiten-Liga ('League of Antisemites'), apparently named to follow the Anti-Kanzler-Liga ('Anti-Chancellor League').
antisemitism: According to a 2011 exhibition at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, United States, some of the dialogue from Middle East media and commentators about Jews bear a striking resemblance to Nazi propaganda.
antisemitism: Their propaganda frequently borrowed directly from the forged Protocols of the Elders of Zion and sometimes relied upon Adolf Hitler's Mein Kampf as a source of information about Zionism.
antisemitism: In that same year, the antisemitic Slánský show trial alleged the existence of an 'international Zionist conspiracy' to destroy Socialism.
antisemitism: However, even at their peak, the restrictions on Jews in the United States were never as stringent as they had been in Europe.
antisemitism: The pioneer automobile manufacturer Henry Ford propagated antisemitic ideas in his newspaper The Dearborn Independent (published by Ford from 1919 to 1927).
antisemitism: In the aftermath of the Kristallnacht pogrom in 1938, German propaganda minister Goebbels announced: "The German people is anti-Semitic.
antisemitism: Between 1882 and 1886 alone, French priests published twenty antisemitic books blaming France's ills on the Jews and urging the government to consign them back to the ghettos, expel them, or hang them from the gallows.
antisemitism: Adolf Stoecker (1835–1909), the Lutheran court chaplain to Kaiser Wilhelm I, founded in 1878 an antisemitic, anti-liberal political party called the Christian Social Party.
antisemitism: Between 1900 and 1924, approximately 1.75 million Jews migrated to America, the bulk from Eastern Europe escaping the pogroms.
antisemitism: The key is to define, and redefine, and redefine again, the shiny new moral reasoning for why the Jews have failed the universal test of humanity.
antisemitism: The Dreyfus Affair was an infamous antisemitic event of the late 19th century and early 20th century.
antisemitism: Because of this bad nature: (1) Jews have to be seen not as individuals but as a collective.
antisemitism: Zoological conspiracy theories have been propagated by Arab media and Arabic language websites, alleging a "Zionist plot" behind the use of animals to attack civilians or to conduct espionage.
antisemitism: This party always remained small, and its support dwindled after Stoecker's death, with most of its members eventually joining larger conservative groups such as the German National People's Party.
antisemitism: Those who say they are antisemitic have termed such analogies "Holocaust inversion"—a form of Holocaust trivialisation, in which the Holocaust is compared with other events in a way that downplays its severity.
antisemitism: In the 21st century, the idea that there is a variation of antisemitism known as "new antisemitism" has been discussed.
antisemitism: There are various ways in which antisemitism is manifested, ranging in the level of severity of Jewish persecution.
antisemitism: In 1879, German journalist Wilhelm Marr published a pamphlet, Der Sieg des Judenthums über das Germanenthum.
antisemitism: This rise in the support for far-right ideas in western and eastern Europe has resulted in the increase of antisemitic acts, mostly attacks on Jewish memorials, synagogues and cemeteries but also a number of physical attacks against Jews.
antisemitism: In 1973, Bernard Lewis wrote that "the Semite [...
antisemitism: It promoted the myth that Jews conspired to 'judaise' the world; it served to consolidate social identity; it channeled dissatisfactions among victims of the capitalist system; and it was used as a conservative cultural code to fight emancipation and liberalism.
antisemitism: A person who harbours it is called an antisemite.
antisemitism: Many of the expelled Jews fled to Poland.
antisemitism: It was anti-liberal, racialist and nationalist.
antisemitism: The radio speeches of Father Coughlin in the late 1930s attacked Franklin D.
antisemitism: In opposition to this view, Derek Penslar contends that in the modern era, economic antisemitism is "distinct and nearly constant" but theological antisemitism is "often subdued".
antisemitism: During the Russian Civil War, close to 50,000 Jews were killed in pogroms.
antisemitism: Steinschneider used this phrase to characterise the French philosopher Ernest Renan's false ideas about how 'Semitic races' were inferior to 'Aryan races'".
antisemitism: Though antisemitism could be construed as prejudice against people who speak Semitic languages, this is not how the term is commonly used.
antisemitism: 1855–1881).
antisemitism: The lynching of Leo Frank by a mob of prominent citizens in Marietta, Georgia, in 1915 turned the spotlight on antisemitism in the United States.
antisemitism: The Jewish Encyclopedia reports, "In February 1881, a correspondent of the Allgemeine Zeitung des Judentums speaks of 'Anti-Semitism' as a designation which recently came into use ('Allg.
antisemitism: Engel argues that the term "antisemitism" is not useful in historical analysis because it implies that there are links between anti-Jewish prejudices expressed in different contexts, without evidence of such a connection.
antisemitism: Antizionism helped Moscow "bond both with its Arab allies and the Western hard left of all shades.
antisemitism: However, general consensus held that Dreyfus was guilty: 80% of the press in France condemned him.
antisemitism: For instance, in the Enlightenment, figures like Voltaire critiqued Judaism as backward and superstitious to promote their visions of reason and progress.
antisemitism: Relationships between the Jewish people and the occupying Roman Empire were at times antagonistic and resulted in several rebellions, most notably the First Jewish–Roman War and the Bar Kokhba revolt.
antisemitism: State Department found that there was an increase in antisemitism across the world, and that both old and new expressions of antisemitism persist.
antisemitism: This increase, combined with the upward social mobility of some Jews, contributed to a resurgence of antisemitism.
antisemitism: Historian David Engel has challenged the project to define antisemitism, arguing that it essentializes Jewish history as one of persecution and discrimination.
antisemitism: The Doctors' plot of 1952, a fabricated conspiracy accusing predominantly Jewish doctors of attempting to assassinate Soviet leaders, exemplified this resurgence.
antisemitism: Oxford English Dictionary editor James Murray wrote that it was not included in the first edition because "Anti-Semite and its family were then probably very new in English use, and not thought likely to be more than passing nonce-words...
antisemitism: After the 2023 Hamas-led attack on Israel on 7 October and Israel's subsequent invasion of the Gaza strip, antisemitism and anti-Jewish hate crimes around the world increased significantly.
antisemitism: Its foundation lies in the early claim of Jewish deicide and depictions of Jews as 'Christ-killers'.
antisemitism: The first of these conflicts was the Khmelnytsky Uprising, when Bohdan Khmelnytsky's supporters massacred tens of thousands of Jews in the eastern and southern areas he controlled (today's Ukraine).
antisemitism: Thousands of Jews were slaughtered by Cossack Haidamaks in the 1768 massacre of Uman, in the Kingdom of Poland.
antisemitism: In the context of the Industrial Revolution, following the Jewish Emancipation, Jews rapidly urbanized and experienced a period of greater social mobility.
antisemitism: A March 2008 report by the U.S.
antisemitism: William Brustein defines political antisemitism as hostility toward Jews based on the belief that Jews seek national or world power.
antisemitism: Some further argue that the essay influenced National Socialist, as well as Soviet and Arab antisemites.
antisemitism: Nobody says, 'I am anti-Semitic.' You cannot, after Hitler.
antisemitism: Robert Bernstein, founder of Human Rights Watch, says that antisemitism is "deeply ingrained and institutionalized" in "Arab nations in modern times".
antisemitism: In 2022, the American Jewish Committee stated that the Black Hebrew Israelite claim that "we are the real Jews" is a "troubling antisemitic trope with dangerous potential," arguing that such rhetoric perpetuates antisemitism by denying Jewish people's legitimacy as Jews.
antisemitism: European immigrants to the United States brought antisemitism to the country as early as the 17th century.
antisemitism: Some contextualists restrict the use of "antisemitism" to refer exclusively to the era of modern racism, treating anti-Judaism as a separate phenomenon.
antisemitism: According to Falk, Treitschke uses the term "Semitic" almost synonymously with "Jewish", in contrast to Renan's use of it to refer to a whole range of peoples, based generally on linguistic criteria.
antisemitism: Similarly, the Soviet Union frequently portrayed Judaism as linked with capitalism and mercantilism, standing in opposition to the ideals of proletarian solidarity and communism.
antisemitism: There are two competing views of antisemitism—eternalism and contextualism.
antisemitism: It changes form and adapts to different contexts and times, whether in medieval religious disputes, Enlightenment critiques, or modern racial theories.
antisemitism: At the beginning of the 20th century, the Beilis Trial in Russia represented modern incidents of blood-libels in Europe.
antisemitism: These scholars argue that Marx equated Judaism with capitalism in his essay, helping to spread that idea.
antisemitism: The Six-Day War in 1967 led to an intensification in Soviet anti-Zionist propaganda as the Soviets had backed the defeated Arab states.
antisemitism: Benny Morris writes that one symbol of Jewish degradation was the phenomenon of stone-throwing at Jews by Muslim children.
antisemitism: Thus have Judaism and Jew-hatred passed through history for centuries as inseparable companions...
antisemitism: The Party issued confidential directives to fire Jews from positions of power, but state-controlled media did not openly attack Jews until the late 1940s.
antisemitism: In the event that antisemitism in a given country becomes severe, the Diaspora Minister may contact that country's government in an official capacity.
antisemitism: The league was the first German organisation committed specifically to combating the alleged threat to Germany and German culture posed by the Jews and their influence and advocating their forced removal from the country.
antisemitism: Linking Jews and money underpins the most damaging and lasting antisemitic canards.
antisemitism: In philosophy, literature, and politics, Jewishness has often been constructed as a counterpoint to what is considered normative or ideal.
antisemitism: Pseudoscientific theories concerning race, civilization, and "progress" had become quite widespread in Europe in the second half of the 19th century, especially as Prussian nationalistic historian Heinrich von Treitschke did much to promote this form of racism.
antisemitism: In 1895, A.
antisemitism: In this view, the proponents of the new concept believe that criticisms of Israel and Zionism are often disproportionate in degree and unique in kind, and they attribute this to antisemitism.
antisemitism: This propaganda often blurred the lines with antisemitism, leading to discriminatory policies against Jews and restricting their emigration.
antisemitism: After the war, the Kielce pogrom and the "March 1968 events" in communist Poland represented further incidents of antisemitism in Europe.
antisemitism: Even such influential figures as Walt Whitman tolerated bigotry toward the Jews in America.
antisemitism: Continuing throughout the 7th century, both Visigothic kings and the Church were active in creating social aggression and towards Jews with "civic and ecclesiastic punishments", ranging between forced conversion, slavery, exile and death.
antisemitism: The Jewish diaspora on the Nile island Elephantine, which was founded by mercenaries, experienced the destruction of its temple in 410 BCE.
antisemitism: They saw Jews as beyond redemption even if they converted to the majority religion.
antisemitism: In the Soviet Union, antisemitism was even used as an instrument for settling personal conflicts, starting with the conflict between Joseph Stalin and Leon Trotsky and continuing through numerous conspiracy theories spread by official propaganda.
antisemitism: An academic study by Francesco D'Acunto, Marcel Prokopczuk, and Michael Weber showed that people who live in areas of Germany that contain the most brutal history of antisemitic persecution are more likely to be distrustful of finance in general.
antisemitism: (2) Jews remain essentially alien in the surrounding societies.
antisemitism: In August 2024, the Israeli Ministry of Diaspora Affairs announced a new antisemitism monitoring project.
antisemitism: There have been a number of efforts by international and governmental bodies to define antisemitism formally.
antisemitism: The contextual approach treats antisemitism as a type of racism and focuses on the historical context in which hatred of Jews emerges.
antisemitism: From the 9th century, the medieval Islamic world classified Jews and Christians as dhimmis and allowed Jews to practice their religion more freely than they could do in medieval Christian Europe.
antisemitism: A decree by emperor Nicholas I of Russia in 1827 conscripted Jews under 18 years of age into the cantonist schools for a 25-year military service in order to promote baptism.
antisemitism: The word Semitic was coined for use in linguistics by German Orientalist August Ludwig von Schlözer in 1781 to designate the Semitic group of languages—Aramaic, Arabic, Hebrew and others—allegedly spoken by the descendants of the Biblical figure Shem, son of Noah.
antisemitism: Lindbergh alleged that Jews were pushing America to go to war against Germany.
antisemitism: However, in some cases, discrimination continues after conversion, as in the case of marranos (Christianized Jews in Spain and Portugal) in the late 15th century and 16th century, who were suspected of secretly practising Judaism or Jewish customs.
antisemitism: According to Suetonius, the emperor Tiberius took measures against Jews in Rome in 19 CE, expelling and relocating some Jewish‑affiliated groups in response to unrest and alleged religious‑moral offenses.
antisemitism: Others argue that Marx consistently supported Prussian Jewish communities' struggles to achieve equal political rights.
antisemitism: The middle 19th century saw continued official harassment of the Jews, especially in Eastern Europe under Czarist influence.
antisemitism: Such theories, usually posited by northern Europeans, advocated the superiority of white Aryans to Semitic Jews.
antisemitism: To all this the Jew is obliged to submit; it would be more than his life was worth to offer to strike a Mahommedan."
In the middle of the 19th century, J.
antisemitism: McLellan concludes that readers should interpret the essay's second half as "an extended pun at Bauer's expense".
antisemitism: However, under Joseph Stalin's regime, antisemitism reemerged, often cloaked in 'anti-Zionist' rhetoric.
antisemitism: Under Islamic rule, there was a Golden age of Jewish culture in Spain that lasted until at least the 11th century.
antisemitism: In the early 19th century, a number of laws enabling the emancipation of the Jews were enacted in Western European countries.
antisemitism: It ended when several Muslim pogroms against Jews took place on the Iberian Peninsula, including those that occurred in Córdoba in 1011 and in Granada in 1066.
antisemitism: For example, Karl Lueger, the popular mayor of fin de siècle Vienna, skillfully exploited antisemitism as a way of channeling public discontent to his political advantage.
antisemitism: It has also been adopted by many Holocaust museums, such as the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and Yad Vashem.
antisemitism: The eternalist view sees antisemitism as separate from other forms of racism and prejudice and an exceptionalist, transhistorical force teleologically culminating in the Holocaust.
antisemitism: Although originally published anonymously, when the essay was republished 19 years later, in 1869, the concept of the corrupting Jew had become so widely held that Wagner's name was affixed to it.
antisemitism: He also banned Jewish practices such as circumcision, Shabbat observance, and the study of Torah scrolls, sparking the Maccabean Revolt.
antisemitism: In a 2011 survey by the Pew Research Center, all of the Muslim-majority Middle Eastern countries polled held significantly negative opinions of Jews.
antisemitism: This marked a full circle shift in usage, from an era just decades earlier when "Jew" was used as a pejorative term.
antisemitism: Derek Penslar writes that there are two components to the financial canards:
antisemitism: Harap also adds a category of "social antisemitism".
antisemitism: The perpetrators of several antisemitic attacks in the United States have expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelites.
antisemitism: Cuza organized the Alianța Antisemită and the Liga Antisemită Universală in Bucharest.
antisemitism: On 19 July 1882, the editor says, 'This quite recent Anti-Semitism is hardly three years old.'"
The word antisemitism was borrowed into English from German in 1881.
antisemitism: The Shepherds' Crusades of 1251 and 1320 both involved attacks, as did the Rintfleisch massacres in 1298.
antisemitism: This campaign fostered widespread antisemitic sentiments and resulted in the arrest and execution of numerous Jewish professionals.
antisemitism: Judeophobia is a psychic disorder.
antisemitism: Judith Butler, Masha Gessen, and others have identified a mainstreaming of Zionist antisemitism from the far-right under the Trump administrations in the US, with the Zionist Organization of America honouring Steve Bannon in 2017.
antisemitism: Rumors spread that they caused the disease by deliberately poisoning wells.
antisemitism: In 1782, Joseph II abolished most of these persecution practices in his Toleranzpatent, on the condition that Yiddish and Hebrew were eliminated from public records and that judicial autonomy was annulled.
antisemitism: [I]n antisemitic parlance, 'Semites' really stands for Jews, just that." In 2002, Padraic O'Hare, professor of Religious and Theological Studies and Director of the Center for the Study of Jewish–Christian–Muslim Relations at Merrimack College; and historians Yehuda Bauer and James Carroll.
antisemitism: René König mentions social antisemitism, economic antisemitism, religious antisemitism, and political antisemitism as examples.
antisemitism: Under the French Second Empire, the popular counter-revolutionary Catholic journalist Louis Veuillot propagated Bonald's arguments against the Jewish "financial aristocracy" along with vicious attacks against the Talmud and the Jews as a "deicidal people" driven by hatred to "enslave" Christians.
antisemitism: By that ratio, if other factors such as pogroms and conversions had not intervened, there would be 200 million Jews in the world today, instead of something like 13 million."
antisemitism: Roosevelt's New Deal and promoted the notion of a Jewish financial conspiracy.
antisemitism: According to Paul Johnson, antisemitic policies are a sign of a state which is poorly governed.
antisemitism: Wheen says that "Those critics, who see this as a foretaste of 'Mein Kampf', overlook one, essential point: in spite of the clumsy phraseology and crude stereotyping, the essay was actually written as a defense of the Jews.
antisemitism: Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish artillery captain in the French Army, was accused in 1894 of passing secrets to the Germans.
antisemitism: The ancient Jewish philosopher Philo of Alexandria describes an attack on Jews in Alexandria in 38 CE in which thousands of Jews died.
antisemitism: Holocaust denial, the claim that the Nazi genocide of European Jews during the Second World War either never happened or is substantially exaggerated by historical accounts, is a form of antisemitism and conspiracy theory.
antisemitism: The crux was the manipulation and control by the Jews of the money economy:
antisemitism: Some Jewish writers have argued that public education about antisemitism through the prism of the Holocaust is unhelpful at best or actively deepening antisemitism at worst.
antisemitism: In 2003, Israeli politician Natan Sharansky developed what he called the "three D" test to distinguish antisemitism from criticism of Israel, giving Delegitimization, Demonization, and Double standards as a litmus test for the former.
antisemitism: Dara Horn wrote in The Atlantic that "Auschwitz is not a metaphor", arguing "That the Holocaust drives home the importance of love is an idea, like the idea that Holocaust education prevents anti-Semitism, that seems entirely unobjectionable.
antisemitism: Bohak has argued, however, that early animosity against the Jews cannot be regarded as being anti-Judaic or antisemitic unless it arose from attitudes that were held against the Jews alone, and that many Greeks showed animosity toward any group they regarded as barbarians.
antisemitism: The bill was opposed by some who claimed it conflated criticism of Israel with antisemitism, while Jewish advocacy groups like the American Jewish Committee and World Jewish Congress generally supported it in response to the increase in antisemitic incidents on university campuses.
antisemitism: Despite this, traditional discrimination and hostility to Jews on religious grounds persisted and was supplemented by racial antisemitism, encouraged by the work of racial theorists such as Joseph Arthur de Gobineau and particularly his Essay on the Inequality of the Human Race of 1853–1855.
antisemitism: In its 1910 obituary of Lueger, The New York Times notes that Lueger was "Chairman of the Christian Social Union of the Parliament and of the Anti-Semitic Union of the Diet of Lower Austria.
antisemitism: Tcherikover argues that the reason for hatred of Jews in the Hellenistic period was their separateness in the Greek cities, the poleis.
antisemitism: The forms identified are substantially the same; it is primarily the number of forms and their definitions that differ.
antisemitism: Judeophobia is a form of demonopathy, with the distinction that the Jewish ghost has become known to the whole race of mankind, not merely to certain races...
antisemitism: After the beginning of the war between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union in 1941, a campaign of mass murder, conducted by the Einsatzgruppen, culminated from 1942 to 1945 in systematic genocide: the Holocaust.
antisemitism: In the late 19th century and early 20th century, it gained mainstream acceptance as part of the eugenics movement, which categorized non-Europeans as inferior.
antisemitism: In 1772, the empress of Russia, Catherine II, forced the Jews into the Pale of Settlement—which was located primarily in present-day Poland, Ukraine, and Belarus—and to stay in their shtetls and forbade them from returning to the towns that they occupied before the partition of Poland.
antisemitism: Bernard Lazare, writing in the 1890s, identified three forms of antisemitism: Christian antisemitism, economic antisemitism, and ethnologic antisemitism.
antisemitism: The word has gone out of fashion."
The term has been described as confusing, for in modern usage Semitic designates a language group, not a race.
antisemitism: Multiple universities and university officials have been accused of systemic antisemitism.
antisemitism: Nationalist agendas based on ethnicity, known as ethnonationalism, usually excluded the Jews from the national community as an alien race.
antisemitism: McFadden, Chairman of the United States House Committee on Banking and Currency, blamed Jews for Roosevelt's decision to abandon the gold standard, and claimed that "in the United States today, the Gentiles have the slips of paper while the Jews have the lawful money".
antisemitism: Antisemitic legislation, agitation, and propaganda were subsequently extended to German-occupied Europe following the onset of war in 1939, frequently adapting or amplifying local antisemitic traditions (e.g., in Vichy France and occupied Poland).
antisemitism: During his time as editor of the Brooklyn Eagle (1846–1848), the newspaper published historical sketches casting Jews in a bad light.
antisemitism: Agatharchides of Cnidus ridiculed the practices of the Jews and the "absurdity of their Law", making a mocking reference to how Ptolemy Lagus was able to invade Jerusalem in 320 BCE because its inhabitants were observing the Shabbat.
antisemitism: Several decrees ordering the destruction of synagogues were also enacted in Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Yemen from the 11th century.
antisemitism: Racial antisemitism is prejudice against Jews as a racial/ethnic group, rather than Judaism as a religion.
antisemitism: The anti-Jewish violence in postwar Poland had a common theme of blood libel rumours.
antisemitism: Style guides for the New York Times and Wall Street Journal later adopted this spelling as well.
antisemitism: In 1096, hundreds or thousands of Jews were killed during the First Crusade.
antisemitism: Jerome Chanes identifies six stages in the historical development of antisemitism:
antisemitism: The word Judeophobia first appeared in his pamphlet Auto-Emancipation, published anonymously in German in September 1882, where it was described as an irrational fear or hatred of Jews.
antisemitism: Identification with antisemitism and as an antisemite was politically advantageous in Europe during the late 19th century.
antisemitism: As a result of these charges, Dreyfus was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment on Devil's Island.
antisemitism: The early Zionist pioneer Leon Pinsker, a professional physician, preferred the clinical-sounding term Judeophobia (also Judaeophobia) to antisemitism, which he regarded as a misnomer.
antisemitism: The Holocaust didn't happen because of a lack of love.
antisemitism: Extremist groups of Black Hebrew Israelites believe that Jewish people are "imposters", who have "stolen" Black Americans' true racial and religious identity.
antisemitism: As another example, Walter Laqueur suggested that the antisemitic perception of Jewish people as greedy (as often used in stereotypes of Jews) probably evolved in Europe during medieval times where a large portion of money lending was operated by Jews.
antisemitism: Krefetz gives, as illustrations, many slurs and proverbs (in several different languages) which suggest that Jews are stingy, or greedy, or miserly, or aggressive bargainers.
antisemitism: Yisrael Gutman characterizes political antisemitism as tending to "lay responsibility on the Jews for defeats and political economic crises" while seeking to "exploit opposition and resistance to Jewish influence as elements in political party platforms." Derek J.
antisemitism: As the Black Death epidemics devastated Europe in the mid-14th century, causing the death of a large part of the population, Jews were used as scapegoats.
antisemitism: In 1850, the German composer Richard Wagner—who has been called "the inventor of modern antisemitism"—published Das Judenthum in der Musik (roughly "Jewishness in Music") under a pseudonym in the Neue Zeitschrift für Musik.
antisemitism: In the former case, usually known as racial antisemitism, a person's hostility is driven by the belief that Jews constitute a distinct race with inherent traits or characteristics that are repulsive or inferior to the preferred traits or characteristics within that person's society.
antisemitism: Bonald furthermore declared that the Jews were an "alien" people, a "state within a state", and should be forced to wear a distinctive mark to more easily identify and discriminate against them.
antisemitism: Observed from a non-religious perspective), in which he used the word Semitismus interchangeably with the word Judentum to denote both "Jewry" (the Jews as a collective) and "Jewishness" (the quality of being Jewish, or the Jewish spirit).
antisemitism: Religious antisemitism, also known as anti-Judaism, is antipathy towards Jews because of their perceived religious beliefs.
antisemitism: The Almohads, who had taken control of the Almoravids' Maghribi and Andalusian territories by 1147, were far more fundamentalist in outlook compared to their predecessors, and they treated the dhimmis harshly.
antisemitism: The case was also used to build support for the renewal of the Ku Klux Klan which had been inactive since 1870.
antisemitism: During the mid-to-late 17th century the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was devastated by several conflicts, in which the Commonwealth lost over a third of its population (over 3 million people), and Jewish losses were counted in the hundreds of thousands.
antisemitism: Martin Luther, an ecclesiastical reformer whose teachings inspired the Reformation, wrote antagonistically about Jews in his pamphlet On the Jews and their Lies, written in 1543.
antisemitism: It was not until the American Revolutionary War that Jews gained legal rights, including the right to vote.
antisemitism: These laws culminated in a state-sponsored pogrom on the night of 9–10 November 1938, known as Kristallnacht ("Night of Broken Glass"), during which at least 91 Jews were killed, thousands arrested, over 7,500 Jewish businesses destroyed, and about 1,400 synagogues burned or damaged.
antisemitism: Some prominent politicians shared such views: Louis T.
antisemitism: This use of Semitismus was followed by a coining of Antisemitismus, which was used to indicate opposition to the Jews as a people and opposition to the Jewish spirit, which Marr interpreted as infiltrating German culture.
antisemitism: Some, such as the family of Maimonides, fled east to more tolerant Muslim lands, while some others went northward to settle in the growing Christian kingdoms.
antisemitism: 'Jew-hatred'), and it has since been used to refer to anti-Jewish sentiment alone.
antisemitism: These persecutions were often justified on religious grounds and reached a first peak during the Crusades.
antisemitism: One of the earliest anti-Jewish edicts, promulgated by Antiochus IV Epiphanes in about 170–167 BCE, sparked a revolt of the Maccabees in Judea.
antisemitism: It is mainly characterized by Jews being the villain of a story, such as in "The Good Bargain" ("Der gute Handel") and "The Jew Among Thorns" ("Der Jude im Dorn").
antisemitism: They have undoubtedly had a difficult Jewish problem, but why is it necessary to handle it so unreasonably?", acknowledgement on Lindbergh's part that he agreed with the Nazis that Germany had a "Jewish problem".
antisemitism: In medieval Europe, Jews were persecuted with blood libels, expulsions, forced conversions and massacres.
antisemitism: However, his assassination in 1881 served as a pretext for further repression, such as the May Laws of 1882.
antisemitism: Beginning in 1879, the compound word Antisemitismus was first used in print in Germany as a "scientific-sounding term" for Judenhass (lit.
antisemitism: This attitude among the majority of the French population reveals the underlying antisemitism of the time period.
antisemitism: According to philologist Jonathan M.
antisemitism: The old laws restricting them to ghettos, as well as the many laws that limited their property rights, rights of worship and occupation, were rescinded.
antisemitism: In view of Manetho's anti-Jewish writings, antisemitism may have originated in Egypt and been spread by "the Greek retelling of Ancient Egyptian prejudices".
antisemitism: Émile Zola accused the army of corrupting the French justice system.
antisemitism: First used in the 1770s by members of the Göttingen school of history, the coining of "Semites" as biblical terminology for race was derived from Shem (שֵׁם), the name of one of the three sons of Noah in the Book of Genesis, together with the parallel terms Hamites and Japhetites.
antisemitism: The goal of the project is to measure levels of antisemitism in various countries, as well as identify instigators and trends.
antisemitism: The underlying premise of economic antisemitism is that Jews perform harmful economic activities or that economic activities become harmful when they are performed by Jews.
antisemitism: In each case, Judaism or the Jews are portrayed as standing in tension with prevailing moral norms.
antisemitism: The Associated Press and its accompanying AP Stylebook adopted the unhyphenated spelling in 2021.
antisemitism: Historically, most of the world's violent antisemitic events have taken place in Europe, where modern antisemitism began to emerge from antisemitism in Christian communities during the Middle Ages.
antisemitism: Deborah Lipstadt describes Holocaust inversion as a type of Holocaust denial.
antisemitism: This culminated in the antisemitic conspiracy theory of the 'Doctors' Plot' in 1952.
antisemitism: The study concluded, "that the persecution of minorities reduces not only the long-term wealth of the persecuted but of the persecutors as well."
antisemitism: In the modern era, such myths continue to be spread in books such as The Secret Relationship Between Blacks and Jews published by the Nation of Islam and on the internet.
antisemitism: The violence in Alexandria may have been caused by the Jews being portrayed as misanthropes.
antisemitism: From 1804, Jews were banned from their villages and began to stream into the towns.
antisemitism: Policy towards Jews was liberalised somewhat under Czar Alexander II (r.
antisemitism: Antisemitism manifests itself in a variety of ways.
antisemitism: Lindbergh adamantly denied being antisemitic, and yet he refers numerous times in his private writings—his letters and diary—to Jewish control of the media being used to pressure the U.S.
antisemitism: At one point he writes: "...we are at fault in not slaying them...", a passage that, according to historian Paul Johnson, "may be termed the first work of modern antisemitism, and a giant step forward on the road to the Holocaust."
antisemitism: Marx himself had Jewish ancestry, and Albert Lindemann and Hyam Maccoby have suggested that he was embarrassed by it.
antisemitism: Physical assaults against Jews in Europe have included beatings, stabbings, and other violence, which increased markedly, sometimes resulting in serious injury and death.
antisemitism: However, with the rise of Christianity as the dominant religion, increasingly restrictive legislation and rhetoric was directed against Jews.
antisemitism: Faced with the choice of either death or conversion, many Jews and Christians emigrated.
antisemitism: While no European state currently has such policies, the Economist Intelligence Unit notes the rise in political uncertainty, notably populism and nationalism, as something that is particularly alarming for Jews.
antisemitism: At the extreme, it consists of pogroms or genocide, which may or may not be state-sponsored.
antisemitism: In it, Horn argues that antisemitism functions by appropriating what has happened to Jews and recasting their experience as part of a broader, universal struggle, which always ends in ultimately redefining Jewish identity as incompatible with these ideals.
antisemitism: Why not instead encourage inquiry about the diversity, to borrow a de rigueur word, of the human experience?"
antisemitism: Bonald's attacks on the Jews are likely to have influenced Napoleon's decision to limit the civil rights of Alsatian Jews.
antisemitism: Hess identified the operative referent in the original usage to have been "antisemit[e]".
antisemitism: a) Jews are savages that "are temperamentally incapable of performing honest labor"
b) Jews are "leaders of a financial cabal seeking world domination"
Abraham Foxman describes six facets of the financial canards:
antisemitism: In this sense, the term is a misnomer, since there are many speakers of Semitic languages (e.g., Arabs, Ethiopians, and Assyrians) who are not the objects of antisemitic prejudices, while there are many Jews who do not speak Hebrew, a Semitic language.
antisemitism: On 1 May 2024, the United States House of Representatives voted 320–91 in favour of adopting a bill enshrining the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of antisemitism into law.
antisemitism: Although the term antisemitism did not come into common usage until the 19th century, it is also applied to previous and later anti-Jewish incidents.
antisemitism: Hess, the term was originally used by its authors to "stress the radical difference between their own 'antisemitism' and earlier forms of antagonism toward Jews and Judaism".
antisemitism: Although the origins of antisemitism are rooted in the Judeo-Christian conflict, other forms of antisemitism have developed in modern times.
antisemitism: Some scholars view Karl Marx's essay "On The Jewish Question" as antisemitic, and argue that he often used antisemitic epithets in his published and private writings.
antisemitism: Racial antisemitism is the idea that the Jews are a distinct and inferior race compared to their host nations.
antisemitism: Therefore, they tended to invest less money in the stock market and make poor financial decisions.
antisemitism: Eleven million Jews were targeted for extermination by the Nazis, and some six million were eventually killed.
antisemitism: Yehuda Bauer wrote in 1984: "There are no anti-Semites in the world ...
antisemitism: Political movements seeking to revive the ideologies of the Nazis and other states that participated in the Holocaust, like neo-Nazism and neofascism, practice Holocaust denial.
antisemitism: Racial antisemites saw the Jews as part of a Semitic race and emphasized their non-European origins and culture.
antisemitism: Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor also noted a continued global increase in antisemitism, and found that Holocaust denial and opposition to Israeli policy at times was used to promote or justify blatant antisemitism.
antisemitism: Some of these groups also promote the unsupported Khazar hypothesis of Ashkenazi ancestry.
antisemitism: By the end of the war, "the "corporate Jew", whether "cosmopolitan" or "Zionist", became identified as the enemy.
antisemitism: In the Zaydi imamate of Yemen, Jews were also singled out for discrimination in the 17th century, which culminated in the general expulsion of all Jews from places in Yemen to the arid coastal plain of Tihamah and which became known as the Mawza Exile.
antisemitism: Drumont founded the Antisemitic League of France.
antisemitism: A 2012 report by the U.S.
antisemitism: Throughout Western history, Jews have since been used as a symbolic 'other' to define and articulate the values and boundaries of various cultures and intellectual traditions.
antisemitism: It is entirely objectionable.
antisemitism: An open letter by 1,200 Jewish professors opposed the proposal.
antisemitism: It was a retort to Bruno Bauer, who had argued that Jews should not be granted full civic rights and freedoms unless they were baptised as Christians".
antisemitism: Education equips learners with the knowledge to identify antisemitism and biased or prejudiced messages and raises awareness about the forms, manifestations, and impact of antisemitism faced by Jews and Jewish communities.
antisemitism: His themes are repeated in the works of Chaeremon, Lysimachus, Poseidonius, Apollonius Molon, and in Apion and Tacitus.
antisemitism: One of the key insights from Nirenberg's work is that antisemitism has proven to be remarkably adaptable.
antisemitism: For example, in 1846, 80 Jews approached the governor in Warsaw to retain the right to wear their traditional dress but were immediately rebuffed by having their hair and beards forcefully cut, at their own expense.
antisemitism: He accused the Jews of a worldwide conspiracy against non-Jews, called for resistance against "this foreign power", and claimed that "there will not be a single office in the land, including the highest, which will not have been usurped by the Jews".
antisemitism: In one diary entry in November 1938, he responded to Kristallnacht by writing "I do not understand these riots on the part of the Germans.
antisemitism: Antisemitism, or Jew-hatred, is hostility to, prejudice towards, or discrimination against Jews.
antisemitism: is even more dangerous play in tolerance than open persecution."
antisemitism: Hannah Arendt criticized this approach, writing that it provoked "the uncomfortable question: 'Why the Jews of all people?' ...
antisemitism: The Roman Catholic historian Edward Flannery distinguished four varieties of antisemitism:
antisemitism: In response to the perceived lack of clarity in the IHRA definition, two new definitions of antisemitism were published in 2021, the Nexus Document in February 2021 and the Jerusalem Declaration on Antisemitism in March 2021.
antisemitism: Antisemitic tendencies may be motivated primarily by negative sentiment towards Jews as a people or negative sentiment towards Jews with regard to Judaism.
antisemitism: Moses Mendelssohn wrote that "Such a tolerance...
antisemitism: The actual spy, Marie Charles Esterhazy, was acquitted.
antisemitism: Between 2019 and 2022, individuals motivated by Black Hebrew Israelites committed five religiously motivated murders.
antisemitism: British-American historian Bernard Lewis, writing in 2006, defined antisemitism as a special case of prejudice, hatred, or persecution directed against people who are in some way different from the rest.
antisemitism: This followed his 1862 book Der Judenspiegel (A Mirror to the Jews), in which he argued that "Judaism must cease to exist if humanity is to commence", demanding that Judaism be both dissolved as a "religious-denominational sect" and subject to criticism "as a race, a civil and social entity".
antisemitism: According to McLellan, Marx used the word Judentum colloquially, as meaning commerce, arguing that Germans must be emancipated from the capitalist mode of production not Judaism or Jews in particular.
antisemitism: He coined the phrase "the Jews are our misfortune", which would later be widely used by Nazis.
antisemitism: Antisemitism has been a key factor for multiple perpetrators of far-right violence and terrorism in recent years, including the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting, the 2018 United States mail bombing attempts, and the Poway synagogue shooting.
antisemitism: Hating Jews thus becomes a demonstration of righteousness.
antisemitism: There have continued to be antisemitic incidents since WWII, some of which had been state-sponsored.
antisemitism: In the east the Third Reich forced Jews into ghettos in Warsaw, in Kraków, in Lvov, in Lublin and in Radom.
antisemitism: William Brustein names four categories: religious, racial, economic, and political.
antisemitism: Whether antisemitism is considered a form of racism depends on the school of thought.
antisemitism: Many scholars and institutions favor the unhyphenated form.
antisemitism: Louis Harap, writing in the 1980s, separated "economic antisemitism" and merges "political" and "nationalistic" antisemitism into "ideological antisemitism".
antisemitism: As early as 1943, Stalin and his propagandists intensified attacks against Jews as "rootless cosmopolitans".
antisemitism: The event caused great uproar among the French, with the public choosing sides on the issue of whether Dreyfus was actually guilty or not.
antisemitism: An article by Jonathan Marwil in Antisemitism, A Historical Encyclopedia of Prejudice and Persecution claims that "no one who ever knew Lindbergh thought him antisemitic" and that claims of his antisemitism were solely tied to the remarks he made in that one speech.
antisemitism: According to Lewis, antisemitism is marked by two distinct features: Jews are judged according to a standard different from that applied to others, and they are accused of "cosmic evil".
antisemitism: In 1147, there were several massacres of Jews during the Second Crusade.
antisemitism: Would that anti-Semitism had had no more than a fleeting interest!" The related term philosemitism was used by 1881.
antisemitism: In 1940, the famous aviator Charles Lindbergh and many prominent Americans led the America First Committee in opposing any involvement in a European war.
antisemitism: Why use Jews as a means to teach people that we're all the same, when the demand that Jews be just like their neighbors is exactly what embedded the mental virus of anti-Semitism in the Western mind in the first place?
antisemitism: In the late 6th century CE, the newly Catholicised Visigothic kingdom in Hispania issued a series of anti-Jewish edicts which forbade Jews from marrying Christians, practicing circumcision, and observing Jewish holy days.
antisemitism: During the Colonial Era, the American government limited the political and economic rights of Jews.
antisemitism: In the first half of the 20th century, in the US, Jews were discriminated against in employment, access to residential and resort areas, membership in clubs and organizations, and in tightened quotas on Jewish enrolment and teaching positions in colleges and universities.
antisemitism: Proponents of this theory assert that the new antisemitism deploys traditional antisemitic motifs, including older motifs such as the blood libel.
antisemitism: Léon Poliakov asserts that economic antisemitism is not a distinct form of antisemitism, but merely a manifestation of theologic antisemitism (because, without the theological causes of economic antisemitism, there would be no economic antisemitism).
antisemitism: The origin of "antisemitic" terminologies is found in the responses of Orientalist Moritz Steinschneider to the views of Orientalist Ernest Renan.
antisemitism: During the early Soviet period, the Bolsheviks initially condemned antisemitism, seeing it as incompatible with Marxist ideology.
antisemitism: Hundreds of Jewish communities were destroyed in numerous persecutions.
antisemitism: He portrays the Jews in extremely harsh terms, excoriates them and provides detailed recommendations for a pogrom against them, calling for their permanent oppression and expulsion.
antisemitism: So far as can be ascertained, the word was first widely printed in 1881, when Marr published Zwanglose Antisemitische Hefte, and Wilhelm Scherer used the term Antisemiten in the January issue of Neue Freie Presse.
antisemitism: to get involved in the European war.
antisemitism: Vom nicht confessionellen Standpunkt aus betrachtet (The Victory of the Jewish Spirit over the Germanic Spirit.
antisemitism: James Carroll asserted: "Jews accounted for 10% of the total population of the Roman Empire.
antisemitism: In theory, antisemitism and attacks against individual Jews would stop if Jews stopped practicing Judaism or changed their public faith, especially by conversion to the official or right religion.
antisemitism: Although Pope Clement VI tried to protect them by issuing two papal bulls in 1348, the first on 6 July and an additional one several months later, 900 Jews were burned alive in Strasbourg, where the plague had not yet affected the city.
antisemitism: During the nineteenth century, Jews were described as "scurrilous, stupid, and tight-fisted", but after the Jewish Emancipation and the rise of Jews to the middle- or upper-class in Europe were portrayed as "clever, devious, and manipulative financiers out to dominate [world finances]".
antisemitism: Jud.' 1881, p.
antisemitism: With the decreasing role of religion in public life tempering religious antisemitism, a combination of growing nationalism, the rise of eugenics, and resentment at the socio-economic success of the Jews led to the newer, and more virulent, racist antisemitism.
antisemitism: Expulsions followed, such as the 1290 banishment of Jews from England, the expulsion of 100,000 Jews from France in 1394, and the 1421 expulsion of thousands of Jews from Austria.
antisemitism: In the questionnaire, only 2% of Egyptians, 3% of Lebanese Muslims, and 2% of Jordanians reported having a positive view of Jews.
antisemitism: Jewish scholar Gustavo Perednik posited in 2004 that anti-Zionism in itself represents a form of discrimination against Jews, in that it singles out Jewish national aspirations as an illegitimate and racist endeavor, and "proposes actions that would result in the death of millions of Jews".
antisemitism: According to this view, since Israel is a Jewish state, expressions of anti-Zionist positions could harbour antisemitic sentiments, and criticism of Israel can serve as a vehicle for attacks against Jews in general.
antisemitism: Muslim-majority countries outside the Middle East similarly held markedly negative views of Jews, with 4% of Turks and 9% of Indonesians viewing Jews favorably.
antisemitism: Antisemitism has been explained in terms of racism, xenophobia, projected guilt, displaced aggression, conspiracy theory, and the search for a scapegoat.
antisemitism: In Germany, shortly after Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party came to power in 1933, the government instituted repressive legislation which denied Jews basic civil rights.
antisemitism: Statements exhibiting prejudice against Jews and their religion can be found in the works of many pagan Greek and Roman writers.
antisemitism: Thus, "it is perfectly possible to hate and even to persecute Jews without necessarily being anti-Semitic" unless this hatred or persecution displays one of the two features specific to antisemitism.
antisemitism: On the more subtle end, it consists of expressions of hatred or discrimination against individual Jews and may or may not be accompanied by violence.
antisemitism: Allied to this were theories of Social Darwinism, which stressed a putative conflict between higher and lower races of human beings.
antisemitism: These scholars argue that "On the Jewish Question" is a critique of Bruno Bauer's arguments that Jews must convert to Christianity before being emancipated, and is more generally a critique of liberal rights discourses and capitalism.
antisemitism: In the 20th century, Soviet and Russian antisemitism underwent significant transformations, shaped by political, social, and ideological shifts.
antisemitism: In 1752, she introduced the law limiting each Jewish family to one son.
antisemitism: Many authors see the roots of modern antisemitism in both pagan antiquity and early Christianity.
antisemitism: Konstantin Pobedonostsev, nicknamed the "black czar" and tutor to the czarevitch, later crowned Czar Nicholas II, declared that "One-third of the Jews must die, one-third must emigrate, and one third be converted to Christianity".
antisemitism: According to the present constitution of this world, the Jew in truth is already more than emancipated: he rules, and will rule, so long as Money remains the power before which all our doings and our dealings lose their force.
antisemitism: In the period before World War II, when animosity towards Jews was far more commonplace, it was not uncommon for a person, an organization, or a political party to self-identify as an antisemite or antisemitic.
antisemitism: Antisemitism in America reached its peak during the interwar period.
antisemitism: At the time of the Dreyfus trial in France, "Muslim comments usually favoured the persecuted Jew against his Christian persecutors".
antisemitism: Racial antisemitism replaced the hatred of Judaism with the hatred of Jews as a group.
antisemitism: Most Zionists do not believe that antisemitism can be combatted with education or other means.
antisemitism: Gougenot des Mousseaux's Le Juif, le judaïsme et la judaïsation des peuples chrétiens (1869) has been called a "Bible of modern antisemitism" and was translated into German by Nazi ideologue Alfred Rosenberg.
antisemitism: This was the first major outbreak of anti-Jewish violence in Christian Europe outside Spain and was cited by Zionists in the 19th century as indicating the need for a state of Israel.
antisemitism: Edward Flannery writes that it was the Jews' refusal to accept Greek religious and social standards that marked them out.
antisemitism: According to Josef Joffe of Newsweek, "anti-Semitism—the real stuff, not just bad-mouthing particular Israeli policies—is as much part of Arab life today as the hijab or the hookah.
antisemitism: Antisemites claim that Jews control the world finances, a theory promoted in the fraudulent The Protocols of the Elders of Zion and later repeated by Henry Ford and his The Dearborn Independent.
antisemitism: It more specifically claimed that Northern Europeans, or "Aryans", were superior.
antisemitism: The development of racial and religious antisemitism has historically been encouraged by anti-Judaism, which is distinct from antisemitism itself.
antisemitism: This extortion was known among the Jews as malke-geld ("queen's money" in Yiddish).
antisemitism: Bibliographies, calendars, etc.
