apartheid: Early in 1989, Botha had a stroke; he was prevailed upon to resign in February 1989.
apartheid: At the same time, attention was given to strengthening the effectiveness of the police apparatus.
apartheid: This was generally opposed more and more by the growing apartheid government, and – with urban segregation being reinforced with ongoing racist policies – it was harder to play football along these racial lines.
apartheid: By 1985, it had become the ANC's aim to make Black townships "ungovernable" (a term later replaced by "people's power") by means of rent boycotts and other militant action.
apartheid: In 1988, Israeli arm sales to South Africa totalled over $1.4 billion.
apartheid: This would inevitably result in major engagements, in which the SADF's expeditionary units would have to contend with the firepower of the host government's forces.
apartheid: White nepotism remains a considerable obstacle to economic gain and political influence for Black South Africans.
apartheid: In 1974, resistance to apartheid was encouraged by Portuguese withdrawal from Mozambique and Angola, after the 1974 Carnation Revolution.
apartheid: Further tests determined membership of the various sub-racial groups of the Coloureds.
apartheid: The Lusaka Manifesto summarised the political situations of self-governing African countries, condemning racism and inequity, and calling for Black majority rule in all African nations.
apartheid: Psychology and Developing Societies.
apartheid: This was the first time a predominantly White nation had taken the side of multiracial sport, producing an unsettling resonance that more "White" boycotts were coming.
apartheid: Many domestic civil organisations were modelled upon military structures, and military virtues such as discipline, patriotism and loyalty were highly regarded.
apartheid: Apartheid sparked significant international and domestic opposition, resulting in some of the most influential global social movements of the 20th century.
apartheid: Jobs were often hard to find.
apartheid: Du Toit, A.; Giliomee, H.
apartheid: Mandela argued that de Klerk, as head of state, was responsible for bringing an end to the bloodshed.
apartheid: He also accused the South African police of inciting the ANC-IFP violence.
apartheid: By the late-1980s, with no sign of a political resolution in South Africa, Western patience began to run out.
apartheid: The company began the Khoikhoi–Dutch Wars in which it displaced the local Khoikhoi people, replaced them with farms worked by White settlers, and imported Black slaves from across the Dutch Empire.
apartheid: People's courts were set up, and residents accused of being government agents were dealt extreme and occasionally lethal punishments.
apartheid: The state of emergency continued until 1990 when it was lifted by State President F.
apartheid: One of the worst cases of ANC-IFP violence was the Boipatong massacre of 17 June 1992, when 200 IFP militants attacked the Gauteng township of Boipatong, killing 45.
apartheid: The residents were taken to a large tract of land 19 kilometres (12 mi) from the city centre, known as Meadowlands, which the government had purchased in 1953.
apartheid: One of those protests was held in the township of Sharpeville, where 69 people were killed by police in the Sharpeville massacre.
apartheid: In 1984 a new constitution introduced the Tricameral Parliament in which coloured voters elected the House of Representatives.
apartheid: The Lebanese population were somewhat of an anomaly during the apartheid era.
apartheid: Apartheid had a major effect on Black and Coloured women, who suffered due to both racial and gender discrimination while being politically pushed to the margins.
apartheid: During this state of emergency, about 2,436 people were detained under the Internal Security Act.
apartheid: Despite his initial reputation as a conservative, de Klerk moved decisively towards negotiations to end the political stalemate in the country.
apartheid: South African troops withdrew from Angola early in 1976, failing to prevent the MPLA from gaining power there, causing celebrations among Black students in South Africa.
apartheid: With the international bans from FIFA and other major sporting events, South Africa would be in the spotlight internationally.
apartheid: South Africans did not listen to the laughing and the crying of each other.
apartheid: Verwoerd came to believe in the granting of independence to these homelands.
apartheid: Although the majority of whites supported apartheid, some 20 percent did not.
apartheid: African states agreed to aid the liberation movements in their fight against apartheid.
apartheid: India had become a republic within the Commonwealth in 1950, but it became clear that African and South and Southeast Asian member states would oppose South Africa due to its apartheid policies.
apartheid: In the St James Church massacre on 25 July 1993, members of the APLA opened fire in a church in Cape Town, killing 11 members of the congregation and wounding 58.
apartheid: The Population Registration Act, 1950 classified all South Africans into one of four racial groups based on appearance, known ancestry, socioeconomic status, and cultural lifestyle: "Black", "White", "Coloured", and "Indian", the last two of which included several sub-classifications.
apartheid: The Coloured group included people regarded as being of mixed descent, including of Bantu, Khoisan, European and Malay ancestry.
apartheid: This unity process accelerated in the late 1980s and led to the creation, in December 1991, of an incorporated South African Football Association.
apartheid: Defeated, the protesters called off their strike.
apartheid: In the early-1980s, Botha's National Party government started to recognise the inevitability of the need to reform the apartheid system.
apartheid: He was succeeded as president later that year by F.
apartheid: Interest was expressed in rescinding the law against interracial marriage and also rescinding the law against sexual relations between different races, which was under ridicule abroad.
apartheid: Botha's years in power were marked also by numerous military interventions in the states bordering South Africa, as well as an extensive military and political campaign to eliminate SWAPO in Namibia.
apartheid: The end of the apartheid system in South Africa has largely not changed the socioeconomic stratification by race.
apartheid: External South African military operations were aimed at eliminating the training facilities, safehouses, infrastructure, equipment, and manpower of the insurgents.
apartheid: To avoid this, it was essential that a peaceful resolution between all parties be reached.
apartheid: The NP wanted to retain a strong position in a transitional government, and the power to change decisions made by parliament.
apartheid: Until 1956 women were for the most part excluded from these pass requirements, as attempts to introduce pass laws for women were met with fierce resistance.
apartheid: They were able to buy only state-produced poor quality beer (although this law was relaxed later).
apartheid: This was the same for South Africans of Malaysian descent.
apartheid: The ANC and the PAC in return detonated bombs at restaurants, shopping centres and government buildings such as magistrates courts.
apartheid: Apartheid's social engineering made it more difficult to compete across racial lines.
apartheid: In the wake of Sharpeville, the government declared a state of emergency.
apartheid: Most of these targeted removals were intended to restrict the black population to ten designated "tribal homelands", also known as bantustans, four of which became nominally independent states.
apartheid: Numerous township councils were overthrown or collapsed, to be replaced by unofficial popular organisations, often led by militant youth.
apartheid: Most Afrikaners supported the notion of unanimity of white people to ensure their safety.
apartheid: Television was not introduced until 1976 because the government viewed English programming as a threat to the Afrikaans language.
apartheid: The Constitution was reformed the following year to allow the Coloured and Indian minorities participation in separate Houses in a Tricameral Parliament, and Botha became the first Executive State President.
apartheid: In addition to the continuing "black-on-black" violence, there were a number of attacks on white civilians by the PAC's military wing, the Azanian People's Liberation Army (APLA).
apartheid: It had the only swimming pool for black children in Johannesburg.
apartheid: The Truth and Reconciliation Commission found that there were 21,000 deaths from political violence, with 7,000 deaths between 1948 and 1989, and 14,000 deaths and 22,000 injuries in the transition period between 1990 and 1994.
apartheid: As it became clearer that full-scale conventional operations could not effectively fulfil the requirements of a regional counter-insurgency effort, South Africa turned to a number of alternative methods.
apartheid: Blacks were not allowed to buy hard liquor.
apartheid: Large portions of the garment industry and construction of new homes, for example, were effectively owned and operated by blacks, who either worked surreptitiously or who circumvented the law with a white person as a nominal, figurehead manager.
apartheid: At state schools, white male students were organised into paramilitary formations and drilled as cadets or as participants in a civil defence or "Youth Preparedness" curriculum.
apartheid: By 1989, a bipartisan Republican/Democratic initiative in the US favoured economic sanctions (realised as the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986), the release of Nelson Mandela, and a negotiated settlement involving the ANC.
apartheid: Special forces raids were launched to harass PLAN and MK by killing prominent members of those movements, destroying their offices and safehouses, and seizing valuable records stored at these sites.
apartheid: HNP leaders argued that South Africa did not comprise a single nation, but was made up of four distinct racial groups: white, black, Coloured and Indian.
apartheid: Within the HNP there were factional differences in the party about the implementation of systemic racial segregation.
apartheid: They released the Groote Schuur Minute, which said that before negotiations commenced political prisoners would be freed and all exiles allowed to return.
apartheid: Reforms and negotiations to end apartheid led to a backlash among the right-wing White opposition, leading to the Conservative Party winning a number of by-elections against NP candidates.
apartheid: Two days before the election, a car bomb exploded in Johannesburg, killing nine people.
apartheid: In 1987, the State of Emergency was extended for another two years.
apartheid: The ANC won 62.65% of the vote, less than the 66.7 percent that would have allowed it to rewrite the constitution.
apartheid: Huge and widespread protests occurred in New Zealand in 1981 against the Springbok tour – the government spent $8,000,000 protecting games using the army and police force.
apartheid: AWB militants attempted to intervene in hopes of maintaining Mangope in power.
apartheid: Botha's regime feared that an antidote was needed to prevent the Blacks being attracted to communism.
apartheid: Each TBVC state extended recognition to the other independent Bantustans while South Africa showed its commitment to the notion of TBVC sovereignty by building embassies in the TBVC capitals.
apartheid: Mandela was also a planned target of Project Coast with the intention to poison him with toxic agents to damage his mental capacities whilst he was incarcerated during the Botha regime.
apartheid: This act gave police and the military sweeping powers.
apartheid: The government amended the Public Security Act, including the right to declare "unrest" areas, allowing extraordinary measures to crush protests in these areas.
apartheid: Chinese South Africans –  descendend from migrant workers who came to work in the gold mines around Johannesburg in the late 19th century – were initially either classified as "Coloured" or "Other Asian" and were subject to numerous forms of discrimination and restriction.
apartheid: The apartheid government responded by confiscating the passports of the Board's players so that they were unable to attend international games.
apartheid: Another finding of this study was the psychological harm suffered by Indians living in South Africa during apartheid.
apartheid: It caused a split in the United Party that ultimately realigned oppositional politics in South Africa with the formation of the Progressive Federal Party in 1977.
apartheid: The United Kingdom's Slavery Abolition Act 1833 provided for the gradual abolition of slavery in most parts of the British Empire.
apartheid: An extra day was added to give everyone the chance.
apartheid: The government tightened pass laws compelling blacks to carry identity documents, to prevent the immigration of blacks from other countries.
apartheid: The classification of "honorary white" (a term which would be ambiguously used throughout apartheid) was granted to immigrants from Japan, South Korea and Taiwan – countries with which South Africa maintained diplomatic and economic relations – and to their descendants.
apartheid: The meeting was held at Groote Schuur, the President's official residence.
apartheid: Each black homeland controlled its own education, health and police systems.
apartheid: Each House handled laws pertaining to its racial group's "own affairs", including health, education and other community issues.
apartheid: Cheap labour was the basis of the economy and this was taken from what the state classed as peasant groups and the migrants.
apartheid: Each race was allotted its own area, which was used in later years as a basis of forced removal.
apartheid: A white person was described by the act as one whose parents were both white and possessed the "habits, speech, education, deportment and demeanour" of a white person.
apartheid: The HNP proclaimed that they offered the voters a new policy to ensure continued white domination.
apartheid: Malan announced the NP's intention to create a Coloured Affairs Department.
apartheid: In the following years several student organisations were formed to protest against apartheid, and these organisations were central to urban school boycotts in 1980 and 1983 and rural boycotts in 1985 and 1986.
apartheid: It changed the status of blacks to citizens of one of the ten autonomous territories.
apartheid: However, the peace negotiations for the Treaty of Vereeniging demanded "the just predominance of the white race" in South Africa as a precondition for the Boer republics unifying with the British Empire.
apartheid: The ANC and the government could not reach a compromise on how power should be shared during the transition to democracy.
apartheid: Places of residence were determined by racial classification.
apartheid: In 1950 that philosophy saw the launch of the Programme of Action, a series of strikes, boycotts and civil disobedience actions that led to occasional violent clashes with the authorities.
apartheid: The Organisation of African Unity (OAU) was created in 1963.
apartheid: Areas affected were the Eastern Cape, and the PWV region ("Pretoria, Witwatersrand, Vereeniging").
apartheid: In South-West Africa, the apartheid plan that instituted Bantustans was as a result of the so-called Odendaal Plan, a set of proposals from the Odendaal Commission of 1962–1964.
apartheid: Throughout the existence of the independent Bantustans, South Africa remained the only country to recognise their independence.
apartheid: The Immorality Amendment Act 21 of 1950 (as amended in 1957 by Act 23) forbade "unlawful racial intercourse" and "any immoral or indecent act" between a white and a black, Indian or Coloured person.
apartheid: The UK's significant economic involvement in South Africa may have provided some leverage with the South African government, with both the UK and the US applying pressure and pushing for negotiations.
apartheid: On 20 July 1985, Botha declared a State of Emergency in 36 magisterial districts.
apartheid: The government could implement curfews controlling the movement of people.
apartheid: Blacks were prohibited from attending white churches under the Churches Native Laws Amendment Act of 1957, but this was never rigidly enforced, and churches were one of the few places where races could mix without the interference of the law.
apartheid: This response helped to further elevate Mandela's status in the eyes of those, both internationally and domestically, who opposed apartheid.
apartheid: Most blacks were stripped of their South African citizenship when the "homelands" became "independent", and they were no longer able to apply for South African passports.
apartheid: South African officials frequently accused domestic opposition groups of being communist proxies.
apartheid: The purpose of the negotiations was to pave the way for talks towards a peaceful transition towards majority rule.
apartheid: The 1980s became a period of considerable political unrest, with the government becoming increasingly dominated by Botha's circle of generals and police chiefs (known as securocrats), who managed the various States of Emergencies.
apartheid: Some 40,000 whites were also forced to move when land was transferred from "white South Africa" into the black homelands.
apartheid: ISBN 978-1-315-62156-2.
apartheid: To reside in a city, blacks had to be in employment there.
apartheid: In 1978, the National Party Defence Minister, Pieter Willem Botha, became prime minister.
apartheid: Shots were fired by the police, and the PAC stated that three of its supporters had been gunned down.
apartheid: Once a homeland was granted its nominal independence, its designated citizens had their South African citizenship revoked and replaced with citizenship in their homeland.
apartheid: The party gave this policy a name – apartheid.
apartheid: The Land Act was brought to an end.
apartheid: The Government of National Unity was established, its cabinet made up of 12 ANC representatives, six from the NP, and three from the IFP.
apartheid: Blacks could not acquire land in white areas.
apartheid: Under the 1806 Cape Articles of Capitulation the new British colonial rulers were required to respect previous legislation enacted under Roman-Dutch law, and this led to a separation of the law in South Africa from English Common Law and a high degree of legislative autonomy.
apartheid: On 12 June 1986, four days before the tenth anniversary of the Soweto uprising, the state of emergency was extended to cover the whole country.
apartheid: Further laws had the aim of suppressing resistance, especially armed resistance, to apartheid.
apartheid: The last two examples use the term "apartheid" less literally since they are centred on relations between countries, not on disparate treatment of social populations within a country or political jurisdiction.
apartheid: Whispers of South Africa one day having a Black President sent more hardline whites into supporting right-wing political parties.
apartheid: Even this limited representation did not last, being ended from 1970 by the Separate Representation of Voters Amendment Act, 1968.
apartheid: The disproportionate management and control of the world's economy and resources by countries and companies of the Global North has been referred to as global apartheid.
apartheid: In 1963, 45 British writers put their signatures to an affirmation approving of the boycott, and, in 1964, American actor Marlon Brando called for a similar affirmation for films.
apartheid: In 1959, a group of disenchanted ANC members formed the Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC), which organised a demonstration against pass books on 21 March 1960.
apartheid: Despite a vigorous ANC protest campaign and worldwide publicity, the removal of Sophiatown began on 9 February 1955 under the Western Areas Removal Scheme.
apartheid: In 1905 the General Pass Regulations Act denied Black people the vote and limited them to fixed areas, and in 1906 the Asiatic Registration Act of the Transvaal Colony required all Indians to register and carry passes.
apartheid: Lack of funds to provide proper equipment would be noticeable in regards to black amateur football matches, reflecting economic inequality in society at large.
apartheid: Botha impressed Mandela by walking forward, extending his hand and pouring Mandela's tea.
apartheid: Retributive artillery bombardments were the least sophisticated means of reprisal against insurgent attacks.
apartheid: Black homelands were declared nation-states and pass laws were abolished.
apartheid: An increasing number of organisations were banned or listed (restricted in some way); many individuals had restrictions such as house arrest imposed on them.
apartheid: If convicted of treason, a person could be hanged, and the government executed numerous political offenders in this way.
apartheid: The Population Registration Act, (Act 30 of 1950), defined South Africans as belonging to one of three races: White, Black or Coloured.
apartheid: Post-war, one of the first pieces of segregating legislation enacted by Smuts' government was the Asiatic Land Tenure Bill (1946), which banned land sales to Indians and Indian descendant South Africans.
apartheid: The assassination of Chris Hani on 10 April 1993 threatened to plunge the country into chaos.
apartheid: Under this minoritarian system, white citizens held the highest status, followed by Indians, Coloureds and black Africans, in that order.
apartheid: 49 of 1828 decreed that prospective Black immigrants were to be granted passes for the sole purpose of seeking work.
apartheid: The same year, the government established the Fagan Commission.
apartheid: Black South Africans were provided with services greatly inferior to those of whites, and, to a lesser extent, to those of Indian and Coloured people.
apartheid: This also led to its collapse, as Clarkes "emphasises the economy could not provide and compete with foreign rivals as they failed to master cheap labour and complex chemistry".
apartheid: The Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act of 1949 prohibited marriage between persons of different races, and the Immorality Act of 1950 made sexual relations between whites and other races a criminal offence.
apartheid: Blacks earning 360 rand a year or more had to pay taxes while the white threshold was more than twice as high, at 750 rand a year.
apartheid: Economist Thomas Sowell wrote that basic supply and demand led to violations of Apartheid "on a massive scale" throughout the nation, simply because there were not enough white South African business owners to meet the demand for various goods and services.
apartheid: Even before the creation of the ICC, the UN International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, which came into force in 1976, enshrined into law the "crime of apartheid".
apartheid: The insurgent bases were usually situated near military installations of the host government, so that SADF retaliatory strikes hit those facilities as well and attracted international attention and condemnation of what was perceived as aggression against the armed forces of another sovereign state.
apartheid: Blacks would then be encouraged to create their own political units in land reserved for them.
apartheid: Activities in the sport of professional boxing were also affected, as there were 44 recorded professional boxing fights for national titles deemed "for Whites only" between 1955 and 1979, and 397 fights as deemed "for non-Whites" between 1901 and 1978.
apartheid: The changes were initiated, and in January 1963, the South African Non-Racial Olympic Committee (SANROC) was set up.
apartheid: Early reforms were driven by a combination of internal violence, international condemnation, changes within the National Party's constituency, and changing demographics – whites constituted only 16% of the total population, in comparison to 20% fifty years earlier.
apartheid: In May 1961, before the declaration of South Africa as a Republic, an assembly representing the banned ANC called for negotiations between the members of the different ethnic groupings, threatening demonstrations and strikes during the inauguration of the Republic if their calls were ignored.
apartheid: They were predominantly Muslim, were allowed religious freedom and formed their own ethnic community known as Cape Malays.
apartheid: As well as deciding the national government, the election decided the provincial governments, and the ANC won in seven of the nine provinces, with the NP winning in the Western Cape and the IFP in KwaZulu-Natal.
apartheid: "The Dynamics of Oppression".
apartheid: Retrieved 25 March 2016.
apartheid: It established censorship of film, literature, and the media under the Customs and Excise Act 1955 and the Official Secrets Act 1956.
apartheid: The commission's goal was to completely remove blacks from areas designated for whites, including cities, with the exception of temporary migrant labour.
apartheid: He had an unpublicised meeting with Botha.
apartheid: Apartheid sparked significant internal resistance.
apartheid: Under apartheid, 13 percent of the land was reserved for black homelands, a small amount relative to its total population, and generally in economically unproductive areas of the country.
apartheid: He claimed that the only difference was between those in favour of apartheid and those against it.
apartheid: This was often followed by deportation to the person's homeland and prosecution of the employer for employing an illegal migrant.
apartheid: Thabo Mbeki and de Klerk were made deputy presidents.
apartheid: Public intellectuals like the author Nadine Gordimer also played a role in the anti-apartheid movement.
apartheid: The best-publicised forced removals of the 1950s occurred in Johannesburg, when 60,000 people were moved to the new township of Soweto (an abbreviation for South Western Townships).
apartheid: Actions such as Operation Protea in 1981 and Operation Askari in 1983 involved both full scale conventional warfare and a counter-insurgency reprisal operation.
apartheid: The government then introduced the High Court of Parliament Bill (1952), which gave Parliament the power to overrule decisions of the court.
apartheid: The most likely origin of this name is from the Afrikaans "verdomde pas" (meaning accursed pass).
apartheid: Between 1987 and 1993, the National Party entered into bilateral negotiations with the African National Congress (ANC), the leading anti-apartheid political movement, for ending segregation and introducing majority rule.
apartheid: The United Party government of Jan Smuts began to move away from the rigid enforcement of segregationist laws during World War II, but faced growing opposition from Afrikaner nationalists who wanted stricter segregation.
apartheid: By the late-1960s, the rise of Soviet client states on the African continent, as well as Soviet aid for militant anti-apartheid movements, was considered one of the primary external threats to the apartheid system.
apartheid: Under the homeland system, the government attempted to divide South Africa and South West Africa into a number of separate states, each of which was supposed to develop into a separate nation-state for a different ethnic group.
apartheid: The party always identified with the affluent and capitalists, and failed to appeal to its working class constituents.
apartheid: The crowd listening to the reading of his speech erupted in cheers and chants.
apartheid: Severe censorship of the press became a dominant tactic in the government's strategy and television cameras were banned from entering such areas.
apartheid: Some reforms of the apartheid system were undertaken, including allowing for Indian and Coloured political representation in parliament, but these measures failed to appease most activist groups.
apartheid: Many were also tied to South Africa economically because of their migrant labour population working down the South African mines.
apartheid: Apartheid ( ə-PART-(h)yte, especially South African English:  ə-PART-(h)ayt, Afrikaans: [aˈpart(ɦ)əit] ; transl.
apartheid: Although these states condemned apartheid (more than ever after South Africa's denunciation of the Lusaka Manifesto), South Africa's economic and military dominance meant that they remained dependent on South Africa to varying degrees.
apartheid: The aim was to ensure a demographic majority of white people within South Africa by having all ten Bantustans achieve full independence.
apartheid: Throughout the 1980s, township people resisted apartheid by acting against the local issues that faced their particular communities.
apartheid: ISBN 978-0-520-04319-0.
apartheid: By the mid-1950s, Black South Africans would also use media to challenge the "racialisation" of sports in South Africa; anti-apartheid forces had begun to pinpoint sport as the "weakness" of white national morale.
apartheid: The Cape Supreme Court upheld the act, but was reversed by the Appeal Court, finding the act invalid because a two-thirds majority in a joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament was needed to change the entrenched clauses of the Constitution.
apartheid: Naidoo, Josephine C.; Rajab, Devi Moodley (1 September 2005).
apartheid: South Africa's negative response to the Lusaka Manifesto and rejection of a change to its policies brought about another OAU announcement in October 1971.
apartheid: In 1950, D.
apartheid: Ordinance No.
apartheid: Without a permit, they were required to move to the black "homelands" and set up businesses and practices there.
apartheid: The vast majority had committed political offences and were lashed ten times for their crime.
apartheid: University of California Press.
apartheid: Multiracial sport, between teams with players of different races, remained outlawed; multinational sport, however, was now acceptable: international sides would not be subject to South Africa's racial stipulations.
apartheid: Citizens of the nominally autonomous homelands also had their South African citizenship circumscribed, meaning they were no longer legally considered South African.
apartheid: It would also send a clear message to the host government that collaborating with insurgent forces involved potentially high costs.
apartheid: Collection of primary source historical materials about apartheid South Africa
Apartheid archives subject guide – London University
apartheid: Right-wing violence also added to the hostilities of this period.
apartheid: 17 (2): 139–159.
apartheid: The previous government had introduced the Separate Representation of Voters Bill into Parliament in 1951, turning it into an Act on 18 June 1951; however, four voters, G Harris, W D Franklin, W D Collins and Edgar Deane, challenged its validity in court with support from the United Party.
apartheid: By 1948, black political organisations and leaders such as Alfred Xuma, James Mpanza, the African National Congress, and the Council of Non-European Trade Unions began demanding political rights, land reform, and the right to unionise.
apartheid: Coloureds and Indians were to have their own establishments in the Cape and Natal respectively.
apartheid: The first of the "White Bans" occurred in 1971 when the Chairman of the Australian Cricketing Association – Sir Don Bradman – flew to South Africa to meet Vorster.
apartheid: Once South Africa became a republic, Prime Minister Hendrik Verwoerd called for improved relations and greater accord between people of British descent and the Afrikaners.
apartheid: Smuts, as a strong advocate of the United Nations, lost domestic support when South Africa was criticised for its colour bar and the continued mandate of South West Africa by other UN member states.
apartheid: "separateness", lit.
apartheid: On 10 May 1994, Mandela was sworn in as the new President of South Africa.
apartheid: Although Mandela and Buthelezi met to settle their differences, they could not stem the violence.
apartheid: One example was the Gaborone Raid, carried out in 1985, during which a South African special forces team crossed the border into Botswana and demolished four suspected MK safe houses, severely damaging another four.
apartheid: Bradman, thinking this ignorant and repugnant, asked Vorster if he had heard of a man named Garry Sobers.
apartheid: In 1971, Vorster altered his policies even further by distinguishing multiracial from multinational sport.
apartheid: After meeting with no success in its endeavours to attain credit by collaborating with White establishments, SASA approached the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in 1962, calling for South Africa's expulsion from the Olympic Games.
apartheid: Persistent violence added to the tension during the negotiations.
apartheid: The act overrode the Cape Articles of Capitulation.
apartheid: Prior to his term in office, F.
apartheid: The term apartheid has been adopted by Palestinian rights advocates and by leading Israeli and other human rights organizations, referring to the Israeli occupation in the West Bank, legal treatment of illegal settlements and the West Bank barrier.
apartheid: At the first meeting, the NP and ANC discussed the conditions for negotiations to begin.
apartheid: When de Klerk visited the scene of the incident he was initially warmly welcomed, but he was suddenly confronted by a crowd of protesters brandishing stones and placards.
apartheid: Over sixty American artists signed a statement against apartheid and against professional links with the state.
apartheid: Vorster became prime minister.
apartheid: Forty Lost Years: The National Party and the Politics of the South African State 1948–1994.
apartheid: Also noteworthy were South African transnational espionage efforts, which included covert assassinations, kidnappings, and attempts to disrupt the overseas influence of anti-apartheid organisations.
apartheid: Weeks later, tensions came to a head in the Sharpeville massacre, resulting in more international condemnation.
apartheid: The United States also increased trade with the Apartheid regime, while describing the ANC as "a terrorist organisation".
apartheid: These programmes presided over the construction of bomb shelters at schools and drills aimed at simulating mock insurgent raids.
apartheid: Mandela was moved to a four-bedroom house of his own, with a swimming pool and shaded by fir trees, on a prison farm just outside of Cape Town.
apartheid: The trade of slaves was made illegal throughout the British Empire by 1837, with Nigeria and Bahrain being the last British territories to abolish slavery.
apartheid: This was accomplished by deterring the supportive foreign population from cooperating with infiltration and thus undermining the insurgents' external sanctuary areas.
apartheid: Within South Africa, meanwhile, vigorous police action and strict enforcement of security legislation resulted in hundreds of arrests and bans, and an effective end to the African National Congress' sabotage campaign.
apartheid: White voters of British descent were divided.
apartheid: The 1956 law allowed Coloureds to elect four people to Parliament, but a 1969 law abolished those seats and stripped Coloureds of their right to vote.
apartheid: The first of these was the Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act 55 of 1949, prohibiting marriage between whites and people of other races.
apartheid: By 1948, before formal Apartheid, 10 universities existed in South Africa: four were Afrikaans, four for English, one for Blacks and a Correspondence University open to all ethnic groups.
apartheid: These passes were to be issued for Coloureds and Khoikhoi but not for other Africans, who were nonetheless forced to carry passes.
apartheid: In 1990, negotiations were earnestly begun, with two meetings between the government and the ANC.
apartheid: Wouter Basson in 2002, the initial plan was to poison Mandela with thallium shortly before his release in 1990.
apartheid: Despite a growing gross domestic product, indices for poverty, unemployment, income inequality, life expectancy and land ownership, have declined.
apartheid: In the same year they introduced the Senate Act, which increased the Senate from 49 seats to 89.
apartheid: As one of the oldest black settlements in Johannesburg, it held an almost symbolic importance for the 50,000 black people it contained.
apartheid: On 25 June 1993, the AWB used an armoured vehicle to crash through the doors of the Kempton Park World Trade Centre where talks were still going ahead under the Negotiating Council, though this did not derail the process.
apartheid: It was formulated on counter-revolutionary tactics as espoused by noted French tactician André Beaufre.
apartheid: People of Indian ancestry were considered Coloured under this act.
apartheid: Kaplan, Irving (1970).
apartheid: The new young leaders proposed that white authority could only be overthrown through mass campaigns.
apartheid: Many were descended from slaves, or indentured workers, who had been brought to South Africa from India, Sri Lanka, Madagascar, and China.
apartheid: The Nixon administration implemented a policy known as the Tar Baby Option, pursuant to which the US maintained close relations with the Apartheid South African government.
apartheid: It was characterised by an authoritarian political culture based on baasskap (lit.
apartheid: Artists were requested not to present or let their works be hosted in South Africa.
apartheid: There were practically no cinemas in black areas.
apartheid: In the 1980s, as the oppressive system was slowly collapsing and the ANC and National Party started negotiations on the end of apartheid, football associations also discussed the formation of a single, non-racial controlling body.
apartheid: Nonetheless, the Boipatong massacre offered the ANC a pretext to engage in brinkmanship.
apartheid: The transition of de Klerk's ideology regarding apartheid is seen clearly in his opening address to parliament on 2 February 1990.
apartheid: The Native Laws Amendment Act, 1952 centralised and tightened pass laws so that blacks could not stay in urban areas for longer than 72 hours without a permit.
apartheid: 252 of the 400 seats went to members of the African National Congress.
apartheid: According to later witnesses during the trial of Dr.
apartheid: Soon afterwards, Prime Minister Hendrik Verwoerd announced a referendum on whether the country should become a republic.
apartheid: White people encompassed the English and Afrikaans language groups; the black populace was divided into ten such groups.
apartheid: In terms of mothers and their families, many South African children developed diseases caused by malnutrition and sanitation problems given the oppressive public policies, and mortality rates were therefore high.
apartheid: When negotiations resumed in May 1992, under the tag of CODESA II, stronger demands were made.
apartheid: Verwoerd would refer to this policy as a policy of "good neighbourliness" as a means of justifying such segregation.
apartheid: In theory, self-governing Bantustans had control over many aspects of their internal functioning but were not yet sovereign nations.
apartheid: All laws relating to "general affairs" (matters such as defence, industry, taxation and Black affairs) were handled by a Cabinet made up of representatives from all three houses.
apartheid: Apartheid legislation was repealed on 17 June 1991, leading to non-racial elections in April 1994.
apartheid: To comply with the act, the South African legislation was expanded to include Ordinance 1 in 1835, which effectively changed the status of slaves to indentured labourers.
apartheid: Indians were paid 1/4 to 1/3 what their white counterparts were paid.
apartheid: The spending for Black schools increased, to one-seventh of what was spent per white child, up from one-sixteenth in 1968.
apartheid: On his return to Australia, Bradman released a short statement: "We will not play them until they choose a team on a non-racist basis."
In South Africa, Vorster vented his anger publicly against Bradman, while the African National Congress rejoiced.
apartheid: Witnesses said that the men had arrived in police vehicles, supporting claims that elements within the police and army contributed to the ongoing violence.
apartheid: The Mogadishu Declaration stated that South Africa's rebuffing of negotiations meant that its Black people could only be freed through military means, and that no African state should converse with the apartheid government.
apartheid: Angola was also granted South African loans.
apartheid: Being without a valid pass made a person subject to arrest and trial for being an illegal migrant.
apartheid: During the 1950s, South African military strategy was decisively shaped by fears of communist espionage and a conventional Soviet threat to the strategic Cape trade route between the south Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
apartheid: Official teams or boards were established to come to a conclusion on those people whose race was unclear.
apartheid: The state passed laws that paved the way for "grand apartheid", which was centred on separating races on a large scale, by compelling people to live in separate places defined by race.
apartheid: In particular, it expressed disquiet that "no international observers had been allowed to be present at the crucial stage of the count when party representatives negotiated over disputed ballots".
apartheid: When Verwoerd became prime minister in 1958, the policy of "separate development" came into being, with the homeland structure as one of its cornerstones.
apartheid: In reality, they had no significant economic infrastructure and with few exceptions encompassed swaths of disconnected territory.
apartheid: This resulted in whites owning almost all the industrial and agricultural lands and much of the prized residential land.
apartheid: The NP captured most of the White and Coloured votes and became the official opposition party.
apartheid: Compulsory military education and in some cases, paramilitary training was introduced for all older white male students at state schools in three South African provinces.
apartheid: Cinemas, shops selling alcohol and most other businesses were forbidden from opening on Sundays.
apartheid: Eligibility requirements for a passport had been difficult for blacks to meet, the government contending that a passport was a privilege, not a right, and the government did not grant many passports to blacks.
apartheid: Thus, in an effort to centralise finances, the federations merged in 1951, creating the South African Soccer Federation (SASF), which brought Black, Indian, and Coloured national associations into one body that opposed apartheid.
apartheid: The reprisals which occurred beyond South Africa's borders involved not only hostile states, but neutral and sympathetic governments as well, often forcing them to react against their will and interests.
apartheid: Furthermore, military involvement on that scale had the potential to evolve into wider conflict situations, in which South Africa became entangled.
apartheid: The leader of the movement, Steve Biko, was taken into custody on 18 August 1977 and was beaten to death in detention.
apartheid: During this time, F.
apartheid: In 1956, the Pretoria regime – the administrative capital of South Africa – passed the first apartheid sports policy; by doing so, it emphasised the White-led government's opposition to inter-racialism.
apartheid: Disorderly gatherings were banned, as were certain organisations that were deemed threatening to the government.
apartheid: In 1969, 14 nations from Central and East Africa gathered in Lusaka, Zambia, and formulated the Lusaka Manifesto, which was signed on 13 April by all of the countries in attendance except Malawi.
apartheid: The motorcade sped from the scene as police tried to hold back the crowd.
apartheid: doi:10.4324/9781315621562.
apartheid: On 11 February 1990, Nelson Mandela was released from Victor Verster Prison after more than 27 years behind bars.
apartheid: Economic and social discrimination because of gender is sometimes referred to as gender apartheid.
apartheid: Only those employed by a master were permitted to remain on the Rand, and those entering a "labour district" needed a special pass.
apartheid: Nevertheless, internal organisations of many countries, as well as the South African government, lobbied for their recognition.
apartheid: The first Tricameral elections were largely boycotted by Coloured and Indian voters, amid widespread rioting.
apartheid: Black labour unions were legitimised, the government recognised the right of Blacks to live in urban areas permanently and gave Blacks property rights there.
apartheid: de Klerk also made his first public commitment to release Nelson Mandela, to return to press freedom and to suspend the death penalty.
apartheid: For example: 
The "crime of apartheid" is defined in international law, including in the 2007 law that created the International Criminal Court (ICC), which names it as a crime against humanity.
apartheid: In 1970, Malawian president Hastings Banda made his first official stopover in South Africa.
apartheid: The South African experience has given rise to the term "apartheid" being used in a number of contexts other than the South African system of racial segregation.
apartheid: Its urban losses in the nation's most populous province, the Transvaal, proved equally devastating.
apartheid: Ironically, these reforms served only to trigger intensified political violence through the remainder of the 1980s as more communities and political groups across the country joined the resistance movement.
apartheid: Trade unions under apartheid were racially segregated, with 54 unions being white only, 38 for Indian and Coloured and 19 for black people.
apartheid: Although this reopened the gate for international sporting meets, it did not signal the end of South Africa's racist sporting policies.
apartheid: This policy was initially expounded from a theory drafted by Hendrik Verwoerd and was presented to the HNP by the Sauer Commission.
apartheid: During the Second Boer War, the British Empire cited racial exploitation of Blacks as a cause for its war against the Boer republics.
apartheid: It had been decided that, once the temporary constitution had come into effect, the homelands would be incorporated into South Africa, but Mangope did not want this to happen.
apartheid: The Bisho massacre on 7 September 1992 brought matters to a head.
apartheid: Black town councillors and policemen, and sometimes their families, were attacked with petrol bombs, beaten, and murdered by necklacing, where a burning tyre was placed around the victim's neck, after they were restrained by wrapping their wrists with barbed wire.
apartheid: Detention without trial became a common feature of the government's reaction to growing civil unrest and by 1988, 30,000 people had been detained.
apartheid: The referendum on 5 October that year asked Whites; "Are you in favour of a Republic for the Union?", and 52% voted "Yes".
apartheid: In 1993, de Klerk and Mandela were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize "for their work for the peaceful termination of the apartheid regime, and for laying the foundations for a new democratic South Africa".
apartheid: CODESA adopted a Declaration of Intent and committed itself to an "undivided South Africa".
apartheid: Communities in northern Ireland for example, are often housed based on religion in a situation which has been described as "self-imposed apartheid".
apartheid: The parliament met in a joint sitting and passed the Separate Representation of Voters Act in 1956, which transferred Coloured voters from the common voters' roll in the Cape to a new Coloured voters' roll.
apartheid: According to official reports 23 people were killed, but the number of people who died is usually given as 176, with estimates of up to 700.
apartheid: The Reagan administration evaded international sanctions and provided diplomatic support in international forums for the South African government.
apartheid: As industry in Johannesburg grew, Sophiatown became the home of a rapidly expanding black workforce, as it was convenient and close to town.
apartheid: The state broadcaster, the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC), provided propaganda in support of the government.
apartheid: The government allowed Mandela more visitors, including visits and interviews by foreigners, to let the world know that he was being treated well.
apartheid: While football was plagued by racism, it also played a role in protesting apartheid and its policies.
apartheid: Examples of African states with Black leaders and White minorities existed in Kenya and Zimbabwe.
apartheid: The apartheid government supported the US-led North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), as well as its policy of regional containment against Soviet-backed regimes and insurgencies worldwide.
apartheid: Although trade unions for black and Coloured workers had existed since the early 20th century, it was not until the 1980s reforms that a mass black trade union movement developed.
apartheid: The ethnic division would no longer be between Afrikaans and English speakers, but between blacks and whites.
apartheid: Four of the homelands were declared independent by the South African government: Transkei in 1976, Bophuthatswana in 1977, Venda in 1979, and Ciskei in 1981 (known as the TBVC states).
apartheid: The Promotion of Black Self-Government Act of 1959 entrenched the HNP policy of nominally independent "homelands" for blacks.
apartheid: It set up a powerful state security apparatus to "protect" the state against an anticipated upsurge in political violence that the reforms were expected to trigger.
apartheid: This manifesto was later taken on by both the OAU and the United Nations.
apartheid: South Africa had allowed social custom and law to govern the consideration of multiracial affairs and of the allocation, in racial terms, of access to economic, social, and political status.
apartheid: The more conservative English speakers supported Verwoerd; others were troubled by the severing of ties with the UK and remained loyal to the Crown.
apartheid: By 1981, under apartheid government, 11 new universities were built: seven for Blacks, one for Coloureds, one for Indians, one for Afrikaans and one dual-language medium Afrikaans and English.
apartheid: Separate representatives for coloured voters were first elected in the general election of 1958.
apartheid: In 1959 separate universities were created for black, Coloured and Indian people.
apartheid: Athens: Ohio University Press.
apartheid: In December 1991, the Convention for a Democratic South Africa (CODESA) began negotiations on the formation of a multiracial transitional government and a new constitution extending political rights to all groups.
apartheid: Regarding South Africa, the manifesto said that the countries supported peaceful change "if it were possible", and made clear that they would support guerrilla liberation movements if necessary.
apartheid: In 1978, Nigeria boycotted the Commonwealth Games because New Zealand's sporting contacts with the South African government were not considered to be in accordance with the 1977 Gleneagles Agreement.
apartheid: The Lebanese community maintained their white status after the Population Registration Act came into effect; however, further immigration from the Middle East was restricted.
apartheid: Between 1978 and 1979 the SADF directed artillery fire against locations in Angola and Zambia from which insurgent rockets were suspected to have been launched.
apartheid: Botha told White South Africans to "adapt or die" and twice he wavered on the eve of what were billed as "rubicon" announcements of substantial reforms, although on both occasions he backed away from substantial changes.
apartheid: Byrnes, Mark (10 December 2010).
apartheid: The first presidents of the UDF were Archie Gumede, Oscar Mpetha and Albertina Sisulu; patrons were Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Dr Allan Boesak, Helen Joseph, and Nelson Mandela.
apartheid: On 21 February 1986 – a week before he was assassinated – Sweden's Prime Minister Olof Palme made the keynote address to the Swedish People's Parliament Against Apartheid held in Stockholm.
apartheid: This was followed by Ordinance 3 in 1848, which introduced an indenture system for Xhosa that was little different from slavery.
apartheid: 40,000 people annually were subjected to whipping as a form of punishment.
apartheid: After the arrival of television in South Africa in 1975, the British Actors Union, Equity, boycotted the service, and no British programme concerning its associates could be sold to South Africa.
apartheid: After the Defiance Campaign, the government used the act for the mass arrests and banning of leaders of dissident groups such as the African National Congress (ANC), the South African Indian Congress (SAIC), and the South African Congress of Trade Unions (SACTU).
apartheid: Under the Population Registration Act, racial classification was formalised and required every person over 18 to carry an identity card detailing their racial classification.
apartheid: The United Party's traditional bases of support not only took mutually exclusive positions, but found themselves increasingly at odds with each other.
apartheid: Because of the smaller numbers of white patients and the fact that white doctors preferred to work in white hospitals, conditions in white hospitals were much better than those in often overcrowded and understaffed, significantly underfunded black hospitals.
apartheid: Lastly, Coloureds were those who could not be classified as black or white.
apartheid: The controlled movement of black and Coloured workers within the country caused by the Natives Urban Areas Act of 1923 and restrictive 'pass laws' separated family members from one another.
apartheid: In 1955 the Strijdom government increased the number of judges in the Appeal Court from five to 11, and appointed pro-Nationalist judges to fill the new places.
apartheid: General conscription applied, which meant that all able-bodied white males aged eighteen and older were drafted into the armed forces.
apartheid: In parallel with student protests, labour unions started protest action in 1973 and 1974.
apartheid: "Struggles for Freedom: Southern Africa".
apartheid: Three months later, the Western Cape was included.
apartheid: So-called "self–governing Bantu units" were proposed, which would have devolved administrative powers, with the promise later of autonomy and self-government.
apartheid: Basing its platform on abolishing apartheid and creating a nonracial democratic South Africa, the UDF provided a legal way for domestic human rights groups and individuals of all races to organise demonstrations and campaign against apartheid inside the country.
apartheid: Total Strategy involved building up a formidable conventional military and counter-intelligence capability.
apartheid: The HNP incorporated the commission's findings into its campaign platform for the 1948 South African general election, which it won.
apartheid: The commission concluded that integration would bring about a "loss of personality" for all racial groups.
apartheid: Vorster had expected Bradman to allow the tour of the Australian cricket team to go ahead, but things became heated after Bradman asked why Black sportsmen were not allowed to play cricket.
apartheid: British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan's "Wind of Change" speech left the British faction feeling that the United Kingdom had abandoned them.
apartheid: The UDF, coupled with the protection of the church, accordingly permitted a major role for Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who served both as a prominent domestic voice and international spokesperson denouncing apartheid and urging the creation of a shared nonracial state.
apartheid: The Cape Supreme Court and the Appeal Court declared this invalid too.
apartheid: 'aparthood') was a system of institutionalised racial segregation that existed in South Africa and South West Africa (now Namibia) from 1948 to 1994.
apartheid: Government agents assassinated opponents within South Africa and abroad; they undertook cross-border army and air-force attacks on suspected ANC and PAC bases.
apartheid: For example, social apartheid in Brazil refers to the various aspects of economic inequality in Brazil.
apartheid: In 1949, the youth wing of the African National Congress (ANC) took control of the organisation and started advocating a radical African nationalist programme.
apartheid: This caused difficulty, especially for Coloured people, separating families when members were assigned to different races.
apartheid: The presentation of some South African plays in the United Kingdom and the United States was also vetoed.
apartheid: de Klerk had already experienced political success as a result of the power base he had built in the Transvaal.
apartheid: Malawi was the first non-neighbouring country to accept South African aid.
apartheid: Between 1960 and 1983, 3.5 million black Africans were removed from their homes and forced into segregated neighbourhoods as a result of apartheid legislation, in some of the largest mass evictions in modern history.
apartheid: The resistance went underground, with some leaders in exile abroad and others engaged in campaigns of domestic sabotage and terrorism.
apartheid: Amid fears that integration would eventually lead to racial assimilation, the opposition Herenigde Nasionale Party (HNP) established the Sauer Commission to investigate the effects of the United Party's policies.
apartheid: These people were then issued passports instead of passbooks.
apartheid: A 2016 study in The Journal of Politics suggests that disenfranchisement in South Africa had a significant negative effect on basic service delivery to the disenfranchised.
apartheid: The contradictions in the traditionally capitalist economy of the apartheid state led to considerable debate about racial policy, and division and conflicts in the central state.
apartheid: Indian South Africans during apartheid were assigned to many ranges of categories from "Asian" to "black" to "Coloured" and even the mono-ethnic category of "Indian", but never as white, having been considered "nonwhite" throughout South Africa's history.
apartheid: In total, 20 homelands were allocated to ethnic groups, ten in South Africa proper and ten in South West Africa.
apartheid: To a large extent, the political ideology of apartheid had emerged from the colonisation of Africa by European powers which institutionalised racial discrimination and exercised a paternal philosophy of "civilising inferior natives".
apartheid: The anniversary of the elections, 27 April, is celebrated as a public holiday known as Freedom Day.
apartheid: Many had opposed a republic, leading to a majority "no" vote in Natal.
apartheid: Sabotage was also used as a pressure tactic when South Africa was negotiating with a host government to cease providing sanctuary to insurgent forces, as in the case of Operation Argon.
apartheid: On 16 June, police opened fire on students protesting peacefully.
apartheid: Extra-parliamentary resistance was largely centred in the South African Communist Party and women's organisation the Black Sash.
apartheid: The Bantu Education Act, 1953 established a separate education system for blacks emphasizing African culture and vocational training under the Ministry of Native Affairs and defunded most mission schools.
apartheid: Meadowlands became part of a new planned black city called Soweto.
apartheid: Many Black and Coloured women worked as agricultural employees or as domestic workers, but wages were extremely low, if existent at all.
apartheid: Indonesians arrived at the Cape of Good Hope as slaves until the abolishment of slavery during the 19th century.
apartheid: The governors and assemblies that governed the legal process in the various colonies of South Africa launched on an independent legislative path different from the rest of the British Empire.
apartheid: The council was in turn dissolved in 1980.
apartheid: Forced removals from areas like Cato Manor (Mkhumbane) in Durban, and District Six in Cape Town, where 55,000 Coloured and Indian people were forced to move to new townships on the Cape Flats, were carried out under the Group Areas Act of 1950.
apartheid: New York: Routledge.
apartheid: South Africa selected a multi-racial team for the next Olympic Games, and the IOC opted for incorporation in the 1968 Mexico City Olympic Games.
apartheid: Black journalists for the Johannesburg Drum magazine were the first to give the issue public exposure, with an intrepid special issue in 1955 that asked, "Why shouldn't our blacks be allowed in the SA team?" As time progressed, South Africa's international standing would continue to be strained.
apartheid: Church leaders were not immune to prosecution, and certain faith-based organisations were banned, but the clergy generally had more freedom to criticise the government than militant groups did.
apartheid: Much of the violence in the late-1980s and early-1990s was directed at the government, but a substantial amount was between the residents themselves.
apartheid: Fighting alongside black paramilitaries loyal to Mangope they were unsuccessful, with 3 AWB militants being killed during this intervention, and harrowing images of the bloodshed shown on national television and in newspapers across the world.
apartheid: Internal resistance to the apartheid system in South Africa came from several sectors of society and saw the creation of organisations dedicated variously to peaceful protests, passive resistance and armed insurrection.
apartheid: Police vans patrolled white areas to round up blacks without passes.
apartheid: The discoveries of diamonds and gold in South Africa also raised racial inequality between White people and Black people.
apartheid: According to the World Bank, South Africa is the most economically unequal country in the world.
apartheid: The various South African colonies passed legislation throughout the rest of the 19th century to limit the freedom of unskilled workers, to increase the restrictions on indentured workers and to regulate the relations between the races.
apartheid: The day before the elections, another one went off, injuring 13.
apartheid: Daniel François Malan became the first nationalist prime minister, with the aim of implementing the apartheid philosophy and silencing liberal opposition.
apartheid: In 1968, Vorster went against his policy by refusing to permit Basil D'Oliveira, a Coloured South African-born cricketer, to join the English cricket team on its tour to South Africa.
apartheid: Apartheid forbade multiracial sport, which meant that overseas teams, by virtue of them having players of different races, could not play in South Africa.
apartheid: I am sorry that I had been so hard of hearing for so long".
apartheid: As the 1980s progressed, more and more anti-apartheid organisations were formed and affiliated with the UDF.
apartheid: No industry in the economy has over 50% ownership by Black individuals in terms of their share even though 81.4% of the South African population is Black.
apartheid: Broadly speaking, apartheid was delineated into petty apartheid, which entailed the segregation of public facilities and social events, and grand apartheid, which strictly segregated housing and employment opportunities by race.
apartheid: Public U.S.
apartheid: In 1956, the International Table Tennis Federation severed its ties with the all-White South African Table Tennis Union, preferring the non-racial South African Table Tennis Board.
apartheid: When the government overlooked them, the strikers (among the main organisers was a 42-year-old, Thembu-origin Nelson Mandela) carried out their threats.
apartheid: In the homelands, much of the land belonged to a "tribe", where the local chieftain would decide how the land had to be used.
apartheid: de Klerk ===
apartheid: Immediately after the vote, the Senate was restored to its original size.
apartheid: The Industrial Conciliation Act (1956) legislated against the creation of multi-racial trade unions and attempted to split existing multi-racial unions into separate branches or organisations along racial lines.
apartheid: The Anti-Apartheid Movement persisted in its campaign for South Africa's exclusion, and the IOC acceded in barring the country from the 1964 Olympic Games.
apartheid: The HNP won eight constituencies in the mining and industrial centres of the Witwatersrand and five more in Pretoria.
apartheid: Meanwhile, about 200,000 members of the National Union of Mineworkers commenced the longest strike (three weeks) in South African history.
apartheid: Residential areas were segregated and blacks were allowed to live in white areas only if employed as a servant and even then only in servants' quarters.
apartheid: Other tests involved examining the shapes of jaw lines and buttocks and pinching people to see what language they would say "Ouch" in.
apartheid: In 1958 the Promotion of Black Self-Government Act was passed, and border industries and the Bantu Investment Corporation were established to promote economic development and the provision of employment in or near the homelands.
apartheid: Existing universities were not permitted to enroll new black students.
apartheid: Between 1986 and 1988, some petty apartheid laws were repealed, along with the pass laws.
apartheid: Within the pre-1967 Israeli borders, Palestinian rights advocates have raised concern over discriminatory housing planning against Palestinian citizens of Israel, likening it to racial segregation.
apartheid: However, the White chamber had a large majority on this Cabinet, ensuring that effective control of the country remained in the hands of the White minority.
apartheid: In 1990, prominent ANC figures, such as Nelson Mandela, were released from prison.
apartheid: Similarly, in Natal, the Natal Legislative Assembly Bill of 1894 deprived Indians of the right to vote.
apartheid: The latter was repealed by the British government but re-enacted in 1908.
apartheid: This led to a resumption of negotiations.
apartheid: Since the law specifically stated that Communism aimed to disrupt racial harmony, it was frequently used to gag opposition to apartheid.
apartheid: This strategy was in part adopted from "left-over" British rule that separated different racial groups after they took control of the Boer republics in the Anglo-Boer war.
apartheid: In 1982, final constitutional proposals produced a referendum among Whites, and the Tricameral Parliament was approved.
apartheid: 69% voted in favour, and the victory instilled in de Klerk and the government a lot more confidence, giving the NP a stronger position in negotiations.
apartheid: Social apartheid is segregation on the basis of class or economic status.
apartheid: Bloomberg.com.
apartheid: Its purpose was to provide a blueprint for South Africa by consent and racial peace in a multi-racial society, stressing opportunity for all, consultation, the federal concept, and a Bill of Rights.
apartheid: doi:10.1177/097133360501700204.
apartheid: Women were also notable in their involvement in trade union organisations and banned political parties.
apartheid: Such groups were split into 13 nations or racial federations.
apartheid: After the release of the Freedom Charter, 156 leaders of these groups were charged in the 1956 Treason Trial.
apartheid: For example, upon the foundation of Transkei, the Swiss-South African Association encouraged the Swiss government to recognise the new state.
apartheid: South Africans of Filipino descent were classified as "black" due to the historical outlook on Filipinos by White South Africans, and many of them lived in Bantustans.
apartheid: Foreign complaints about South Africa's bigoted sports brought more isolation.
apartheid: By 1987, South Africa's economy was growing at one of the lowest rates in the world, and the ban on South African participation in international sporting events was frustrating many whites in South Africa.
apartheid: This formed the basis for ANC's withdrawal from the negotiations, and the CODESA forum broke down completely at this stage.
apartheid: There was a strong degree of alienation that left a strong feeling of inferiority.
apartheid: The president could rule by decree without referring to the constitution or to parliament.
apartheid: From the late 1970s to the late 1980s, defence budgets in South Africa were raised exponentially.
apartheid: Led by the Reverend Allan Boesak and Albertina Sisulu, the UDF called for the government to abandon its reforms and instead abolish the apartheid system and eliminate the homelands completely.
apartheid: A related phenomenon is technological apartheid, a term used to describe the denial of modern technologies to Third World or developing nations.
apartheid: Similarly, when home video grew popular in the 1980s, the Australian arm of CBS/Fox Video (now 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment) placed stickers on their VHS and Betamax cassettes which labelled exporting such cassettes to South Africa as "an infringement of copyright".
apartheid: "Life in Apartheid-Era South Africa".
apartheid: The following individuals, who had previously supported apartheid, have made public apologies:
apartheid: Serious political violence was a prominent feature from 1985 to 1989, as Black townships became the focus of the struggle between anti-apartheid organisations and the Botha government.
apartheid: The media was censored, thousands were arrested and many were interrogated and tortured.
apartheid: During the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars, the British Empire captured and annexed the Dutch Cape Colony.
apartheid: In 1969, Malawi was the only country at the assembly which did not sign the Lusaka Manifesto condemning South Africa's apartheid policy.
apartheid: The Bantu Investment Corporation Act of 1959 set up a mechanism to transfer capital to the homelands to create employment there.
apartheid: Other countries which formed relationships with South Africa included Liberia, Ivory Coast, Madagascar, Mauritius, Gabon, Zaire (now DR Congo) and the Central African Republic.
apartheid: Legislation of 1967 allowed the government to stop industrial development in "white" cities and redirect such development to the "homelands".
apartheid: The group faced severe discrimination during the apartheid regime and were subject to numerous racialist policies.
apartheid: The Senate Act was contested in the Supreme Court, but the recently enlarged Appeal Court, packed with government-supporting judges, upheld the act, and also the Act to remove Coloured voters.
apartheid: They were displeased by having to choose between British and South African nationalities.
apartheid: Sport has long been an important part of life in South Africa, and the boycotting of games by international teams had a profound effect on the white population, perhaps more than the trade embargoes did.
apartheid: Since Indians had never been allowed to vote, this resulted in whites being the sole enfranchised group.
apartheid: Some scholars have argued that Apartheid's ideology can be reflected in Afrikaner Calvinism, with its parallel traditions of racialism; for example, as early as 1933; the executive council of the Broederbond formulated a recommendation for mass segregation.
apartheid: Sporting and cultural boycotts did not have the same effect as economic sanctions, but they did much to lift consciousness amongst normal South Africans of the global condemnation of apartheid.
apartheid: This was described as "Total Onslaught".
apartheid: Trains, hospitals and ambulances were segregated.
apartheid: Parliamentary opposition was galvanised by Helen Suzman, Colin Eglin and Harry Schwarz, who formed the Progressive Federal Party.
apartheid: If the pencil stuck they were deemed to be Black; if dislodged they were pronounced Coloured.
apartheid: However, in 1977 the NP caucus approved proposals to bring Coloureds and Indians into central government.
apartheid: Churches and church groups also emerged as pivotal points of resistance.
apartheid: The election was held on 27 April 1994 and went off peacefully throughout the country as 20 million South Africans cast their votes.
apartheid: Signboards such as "whites only" applied to public areas, even including park benches.
apartheid: While a small subset of the Black population have been able to create a Black middle class that did not exist during apartheid, the large majority of Black people in South Africa have yet to experience a difference in economic class since apartheid was abolished.
apartheid: The Tricameral reforms led to the formation of the (anti-apartheid) United Democratic Front as a vehicle to try to prevent the co-option of Coloureds and Indians into an alliance with Whites.
apartheid: However, neither the UK nor the US was willing to apply economic pressure upon their multinational interests in South Africa, such as the mining company Anglo American.
apartheid: Although Verwoerd tried to bond these different blocs, the subsequent voting illustrated only a minor swell of support, indicating that a great many English speakers remained apathetic and that Verwoerd had not succeeded in uniting the white population.
apartheid: After 1976 unions and workers are considered to have played an important role in the struggle against apartheid, filling the gap left by the banning of political parties.
apartheid: Under the Reservation of Separate Amenities Act of 1953, municipal grounds could be reserved for a particular race, creating, among other things, separate beaches, buses, hospitals, schools and universities.
apartheid: The scale and intensity of foreign operations varied, and ranged from small special forces units carrying out raids on locations across the border which served as bases for insurgent infiltration to major conventional offensives involving armour, artillery, and aircraft.
apartheid: There were, for example, the "reserves" created under the British government in the nineteenth century.
apartheid: As the voting system was disproportionately weighted in favour of rural constituencies and the Transvaal in particular, the 1948 election saw the HNP the lead in parliament with an eight-vote lead.
apartheid: Because of protests from AAMs and African nations, however, the IOC was forced to retract the invitation.
apartheid: The South African government attempted to draw an equivalence between their view of black citizens of the homelands and the problems which other countries faced through entry of illegal immigrants.
apartheid: de Klerk served as chairman to the provincial National Party, which was in favour of the Apartheid regime.
apartheid: Mandela described violence as the responsibility of the apartheid regime and said that with democracy there would be no need for violence.
apartheid: Violence persisted right up to the 1994 general election.
apartheid: On the other hand, the taxation rate for whites was considerably higher than that for blacks.
apartheid: In 1983, anti-apartheid leaders determined to resist the tricameral parliament assembled to form the United Democratic Front (UDF) in order to coordinate anti-apartheid activism inside South Africa.
apartheid: 'boss-ship' or 'boss-hood'), which ensured that South Africa was dominated politically, socially, and economically by the nation's minority white population.
apartheid: In January 1985, Botha addressed the government's House of Assembly and stated that the government was willing to release Mandela on condition that he pledge opposition to acts of violence to further political objectives.
apartheid: In addressing the hundreds of anti-apartheid sympathisers as well as leaders and officials from the ANC and the Anti-Apartheid Movement such as Oliver Tambo, Palme declared: "Apartheid cannot be reformed; it has to be eliminated."
Other Western countries adopted a more ambivalent position.
apartheid: In the 1970s, the Black Consciousness Movement (BCM) was created by tertiary students influenced by the Black Power movement in the US.
apartheid: Blacks were defined by the act as belonging to an African race or tribe.
apartheid: Intensive conventional warfare of this nature carried the risk of severe casualties among white soldiers, which had to be kept to a minimum for political reasons.
apartheid: Black people were excluded from working in white areas, unless they had a pass, nicknamed the dompas, also spelt dompass or dom pass.
apartheid: This occurred because the apartheid system perceived that men could prove their employment in urban centres while most women were merely dependents; consequently, they risked being deported to rural areas.
apartheid: The two had a friendly discussion, with Mandela comparing the African National Congress' rebellion with that of the Afrikaner rebellion and talking about everyone being brothers.
apartheid: Spouses and children had to be left behind in black homelands.
apartheid: The Tomlinson Commission of 1954 justified apartheid and the homeland system, but stated that additional land ought to be given to the homelands, a recommendation that was not carried out.
apartheid: There were fears that the change of power would be violent.
apartheid: In 2005, a retrospective study was done by Josephine C.
apartheid: South Africa: The Rise and Fall of Apartheid (3 ed.).
apartheid: Apartheid was to be the basic ideological and practical foundation of Afrikaner politics for the next quarter of a century.
apartheid: The population was classified into four groups: African, White, Indian, and Coloured (capitalised to denote their legal definitions in South African law).
apartheid: Naidoo and Devi Moodley Rajab, where they interviewed a series of Indian South Africans about their experience living through apartheid; their study highlighted education, the workplace, and general day-to-day living.
apartheid: The IOC sent South Africa a caution to the effect that, if there were no changes, they would be barred from competing at the 1964 Olympic Games in Tokyo.
apartheid: In Switzerland, the Swiss-South African Association lobbied on behalf of the South African government.
apartheid: The idea was that the Coloured minority could be granted voting rights, but the Black majority were to become citizens of independent homelands.
apartheid: In law, punishment, and social control, apartheid has been used to explain the strategic use of racial division, deception, and extralegal control strategies within the carceral state, especially to suppress Black political protest, referring to this as carceral apartheid.
apartheid: These meetings were successful in laying down the preconditions for negotiations, despite the considerable tensions still abounding within the country.
apartheid: Apartheid is an Afrikaans word meaning "separateness", or "the state of being apart", literally "apart-ness" or apart-hood" (from the Afrikaans suffix -heid).
apartheid: Nearly 600,000 Coloured, Indian and Chinese people were moved under the Group Areas Act.
apartheid: Only black people with "Section 10" rights (those who had migrated to the cities before World War II) were excluded from this provision.
apartheid: A third faction, which included Hendrik Verwoerd, sympathised with the purists, but allowed for the use of black labour, while implementing the purist goal of vertical separation.
apartheid: John Vorster took office shortly after, and announced that South Africa would no longer dictate to the international community what their teams should look like.
apartheid: Between 1960 and 1994, according to statistics from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, the Inkatha Freedom Party was responsible for 4,500 deaths, South African security forces were responsible for 2,700 deaths and the ANC was responsible for 1,300 deaths.
apartheid: Beginning in 1906 the South African Native Affairs Commission under Godfrey Lagden began implementing a more openly segregationist policy towards non-Whites.
apartheid: The Declaration was the first of several such joint agreements by acknowledged Black and White political leaders in South Africa.
apartheid: This was confirmed by the British Colonial government in 1809 by the Hottentot Proclamation, which decreed that if a Khoikhoi were to move they would need a pass from their owner or a local official.
apartheid: This Act put an end to diverse areas and determined where one lived according to race.
apartheid: It censured apartheid and demanded sanctions against South Africa.
apartheid: Territorial separation was hardly a new institution.
apartheid: Racially selected New Zealand sports teams toured South Africa until the 1970 All Blacks rugby tour, when Maori were allowed to enter the country under the status of "honorary Whites".
apartheid: As a result of "Total Strategy", South African society became increasingly militarised.
apartheid: While international opposition to apartheid grew, the Nordic countries – and Sweden in particular – provided both moral and financial support for the ANC.
apartheid: Archived (PDF) from the original on 28 April 2015.
apartheid: Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland remained outspoken critics of apartheid, but were dependent on South African economic assistance.
apartheid: These separate arrangements continued until the abolition of apartheid.
apartheid: Vorster said that the side had been chosen only to prove a point, and not on merit.
apartheid: Scholar Judith Nolde has argued that, in general, the discriminatory system set up a "triple yoke of oppression: gender, race, and class" such that South African women became "deprive[d]" of their fundamental "human rights as individuals".
apartheid: Vorster stated that Blacks were intellectually inferior and had no finesse for the game.
apartheid: On 3 July 1992, FIFA finally welcomed South Africa back into international football.
apartheid: There were also high economic and diplomatic costs associated with openly deploying large numbers of South African troops into another country.
apartheid: He was not prepared to dismantle apartheid, but he did try to redress South Africa's isolation and to revitalise the country's global reputation, even with other African states.
apartheid: Subsequent judicial inquiries found the evidence of the witnesses to be unreliable or discredited, and that there was no evidence of National Party or police involvement in the massacre.
apartheid: Defining its Asian population, a minority that did not appear to belong to any of the initial three designated non-white groups, was a constant dilemma for the apartheid government.
apartheid: More than 18,000 people were arrested, including leaders of the ANC and PAC, and both organisations were banned.
apartheid: A planned All Black tour to South Africa in 1985 remobilised the New Zealand protesters and it was cancelled.
apartheid: The government announced that relocated persons would lose their South African citizenship as they were absorbed into the bantustans.
apartheid: Thatcher too began to take a similar line, but insisted on the suspension of the ANC's armed struggle.
apartheid: For its part, the Soviet Union viewed South Africa as a bastion of neocolonialism and a regional Western ally, which helped fuel its support for various anti-apartheid causes.
apartheid: Smuts' reluctance to consider South African foreign policy against the mounting tensions of the Cold War also stirred up discontent, while the nationalists promised to purge the state and public service of communist sympathisers.
apartheid: Cinemas and theatres in white areas were not allowed to admit blacks.
apartheid: It was later proven that the government manipulated the situation by supporting one side or the other whenever it suited them.
apartheid: As a consequence of this change of status, South Africa needed to reapply for continued membership of the Commonwealth, with which it had privileged trade links.
apartheid: Most restaurants and hotels in white areas were not allowed to admit blacks except as staff.
apartheid: Millions of people were forced to relocate.
apartheid: After the re-acceptance of South Africa's sports teams by the international community, sport played a major unifying role between the country's diverse ethnic groups.
apartheid: government also declared the ANC a terrorist organisation.
apartheid: The Ciskei Defence Force killed 29 people and injured 200 when they opened fire on ANC marchers demanding the reincorporation of the Ciskei homeland into South Africa.
apartheid: Of these 20 homelands, 19 were classified as black, while one, Basterland, was set aside for a sub-group of Coloureds known as Basters, who are closely related to Afrikaners.
apartheid: In 1976, secondary students in Soweto took to the streets in the Soweto uprising to protest against the imposition of Afrikaans as the only language of instruction.
apartheid: In the early hours, heavily armed police forced residents out of their homes and loaded their belongings onto government trucks.
apartheid: Separation of people according to their religion, whether pursuant to official laws or pursuant to social expectations, is sometimes referred to as religious apartheid.
apartheid: Leon Wessels: "I am now more convinced than ever that apartheid was a terrible mistake that blighted our land.
apartheid: It also empowered the Ministry of Justice to impose banning orders.
apartheid: Television was run on apartheid lines – TV1 broadcast in Afrikaans and English (geared to a White audience), TV2 in Zulu and Xhosa, TV3 in Sotho, Tswana and Pedi (both geared to a Black audience), and TV4 mostly showed programmes for an urban Black audience.
apartheid: S2CID 145782935.
apartheid: Many Blacks remained too poor to contribute significantly to the economy through their purchasing power – although they composed more than 70% of the population.
apartheid: Others argue that the Israeli treatment of Palestinians does not fit the definition of apartheid as it is motivated by security considerations and has nothing to do with race.
apartheid: In 1968, national service for White South African men lasted nine months at minimum, and they could be called up for reserve duty into their late-middle age if necessary.
apartheid: Appearance, social acceptance and descent were used to determine the qualification of an individual into one of the three categories.
apartheid: In a 1977 survey, white South Africans ranked the lack of international sport as one of the three most damaging consequences of apartheid.
apartheid: Pornography, gambling and works from Marx, Lenin and other socialist thinkers were banned.
apartheid: This legally enforced segregation was reinforced through deliberate town planning measures, such as introducing natural, industrial and infrastructural buffer zones.
apartheid: Vorster's willingness to talk to African leaders stood in contrast to Verwoerd's refusal to engage with them.
apartheid: Botha, became increasingly preoccupied with security.
apartheid: Social apartheid may fall into various categories.
apartheid: During the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, the government implemented a policy of "resettlement", to force people to move to their designated "group areas".
apartheid: Nor was maintaining Blacks as third-class citizens working well.
apartheid: Barring the predominantly English-speaking landowner electorate of the Natal, the United Party was defeated in almost every rural district.
apartheid: D'Oliveira was eventually included in the team as the first substitute, but the tour was cancelled.
apartheid: Botha's government stopped short of substantial reforms, such as lifting the ban on the ANC, PAC and SACP and other liberation organisations, releasing political prisoners, or repealing the foundation laws of grand apartheid.
apartheid: In 1967, he offered technological and financial aid to any African state prepared to receive it, asserting that no political strings were attached, aware that many African states needed financial aid despite their opposition to South Africa's racial policies.
apartheid: During the 1980s, the Commonwealth advocated for economic sanctions to accelerate the dismantling of apartheid, and in 1986 during a mini-summit which involved seven different countries, including the United Kingdom, a tough programme of sanctions was agreed.
apartheid: Apartheid was dismantled in a series of negotiations from 1990 to 1991, culminating in a transitional period which resulted in the country's 1994 general election, the first in South Africa held with universal suffrage.
apartheid: The policies of industrialisation led to the segregation and classing of people, which was "specifically developed to nurture early industry such as mining".
apartheid: A "rebel tour" – not government sanctioned – went ahead in 1986, but after that sporting ties were cut, and New Zealand made a decision not to convey an authorised rugby team to South Africa until the end of apartheid.
apartheid: Successful sabotage actions of high-profile economic targets undermined a country's ability to negotiate from a position of strength, and made it likelier to accede to South African demands rather than risk the expense of further destruction and war.
apartheid: Voting rights were denied to Coloureds in the same way that they were denied to Blacks from 1950 to 1983.
apartheid: Its first sabotage plans were carried out on 16 December 1961, the anniversary of the Battle of Blood River.
apartheid: The first apartheid law was the Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act, 1949, followed closely by the Immorality Amendment Act of 1950, which made it illegal for most South African citizens to marry or pursue sexual relationships across racial lines.
apartheid: Racial discrimination against Black people in South Africa dates to the beginning of large-scale European colonisation of South Africa with the Dutch East India Company's establishment of a trading post in the Cape of Good Hope in 1652, which eventually expanded into the Dutch Cape Colony.
apartheid: The government countered swiftly by giving police the authority to arrest people for up to twelve days and detaining many strike leaders amid numerous cases of police brutality.
apartheid: BCM endorsed black pride and African customs and did much to alter the feelings of inadequacy instilled among black people by the apartheid system.
apartheid: Its primary objectives were to eradicate colonialism and improve social, political and economic conditions in Africa.
apartheid: Higher education was provided in separate universities and colleges after 1959.
apartheid: The government's stance was that they would not contemplate negotiating until those organisations "renounced violence".
apartheid: The economic legacy and social effects of apartheid continue to the present day, particularly inequality.
apartheid: There were strong protests against his decision, leading to a coup d'état in Bophuthatswana carried out by the SDF on 10 March that deposed Mangope.
apartheid: International observers agreed that the elections were free and fair.
apartheid: Black labour remained vital to the economy, and illegal Black labour unions were flourishing.
apartheid: Later, some of them recognised the perceived need for white unity, convinced by the growing trend of decolonisation elsewhere in Africa, which concerned them.
apartheid: In the 1970s, the state spent ten times more per child on the education of white children than on black children within the Bantu Education system (the education system in black schools within white South Africa).
apartheid: Mandela's support of the predominantly white rugby fraternity during the 1995 Rugby World Cup was considered instrumental in bringing together South African sports fans of all races.
apartheid: In 2006 Adriaan Vlok washed the feet of apartheid victim Frank Chikane in an act of apology for the wrongs of the Apartheid regime.
apartheid: Media restrictions were lifted and political prisoners not guilty of common law crimes were released.
apartheid: Public beaches, swimming pools, some pedestrian bridges, drive-in cinema parking spaces, graveyards, parks, and public toilets were segregated.
apartheid: The tests included the pencil test, in which a pencil was shoved into the subjects' curly hair and the subjects made to shake their head.
apartheid: The year 1988 saw the banning of the activities of the UDF and other anti-apartheid organisations.
apartheid: Associations with Mozambique followed suit and were sustained after that country won its sovereignty in 1975.
apartheid: Apartheid legislation was abolished in 1991.
apartheid: This pattern of forced removal and destruction was to repeat itself over the next few years, and was not limited to black South Africans alone.
apartheid: It was the target of frequent condemnation in the United Nations and brought about extensive international sanctions, including arms embargoes and economic sanctions on South Africa.
apartheid: In 1965, the Writers' Guild of Great Britain called for a proscription on the sending of films to South Africa.
apartheid: Fort Hare University in the Ciskei (now Eastern Cape) was to register only Xhosa-speaking students.
apartheid: Post-apartheid South Africa has struggled to correct the social inequalities created by decades of apartheid.
apartheid: Area Handbook for the Republic of South Africa (PDF).
apartheid: The first two grand apartheid laws were the Population Registration Act, 1950, and the Group Areas Act, 1950, which divided urban areas into "group areas" in which ownership and residence was restricted to certain population groups.
apartheid: Blacks, although making up the majority of the population, were excluded from representation; they remained nominal citizens of their homelands.
apartheid: Its first recorded use was in 1929.
apartheid: Media opposition to the system increased, supported by the growth of a pro-ANC underground press within South Africa.
apartheid: The NP passed a string of legislation that became known as petty apartheid.
apartheid: In 1979 black trade unions were legalised and could engage in collective bargaining, although strikes were still illegal.
apartheid: The South African Government noted that it was spending too much money to maintain segregated homelands created for Blacks, and the homelands were proving to be uneconomical.
apartheid: There was some difficulty in organising the voting in rural areas, but people waited patiently for many hours to vote amidst a palpable feeling of goodwill.
apartheid: Marthinus van Schalkwyk: "The National Party brought development to a section of South Africa, but also brought suffering through a system grounded on injustice", in a statement shortly after the National Party voted to disband in 2005.
apartheid: This meant all the Bantustans were little more than puppet states controlled by South Africa.
apartheid: In 1896 the South African Republic brought in two pass laws requiring Africans to carry a badge.
apartheid: Botha that led to $200 million in arms deals.
apartheid: As a result of these tests, different members of the same family found themselves in different race groups.
apartheid: Even in rural areas, there were legal hurdles for women to own land, and jobs outside cities were even more scarce.
apartheid: During the 1970s and 1980s, internal resistance to apartheid became increasingly militant, prompting brutal crackdowns by the National Party ruling government and protracted sectarian violence that left thousands dead or in detention.
apartheid: Black people were not allowed to run businesses or professional practices in areas designated as "white South Africa" unless they had a permit – such being granted only exceptionally.
apartheid: Considerable effort was devoted towards circumventing international arms sanctions, and the government even went so far as to develop nuclear weapons, allegedly with covert assistance from Israel.
apartheid: The Bantu Authorities Act of 1951 created separate government structures for blacks and whites and was the first piece of legislation to support the government's plan of separate development in the bantustans.
apartheid: The Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith, signed by Mangosuthu Buthelezi and Harry Schwarz in 1974, enshrined the principles of peaceful transition of power and equality for all.
apartheid: Many black South Africans who had never resided in their identified homeland were forcibly removed from the cities to the homelands.
apartheid: Inter-racial contact in sport was frowned upon, but there were no segregatory sports laws.
apartheid: O'Meara, Dan (1996).
apartheid: The battles between the UDF and the NP government from 1983 to 1989 were to become the most intense period of struggle between left-wing and right-wing South Africans.
apartheid: The focus of much of this resistance was against the local authorities and their leaders, who were seen to be supporting the government.
apartheid: While it did focus on militarising the borders and sealing up its domestic territory against insurgent raids, it also relied heavily on an aggressive preemptive and counter-strike strategy, which fulfilled a preventive and deterrent purpose.
apartheid: It also abolished the seats of white representatives of black South Africans and removed from the rolls the few blacks still qualified to vote.
apartheid: A pass was issued only to a black person with approved work.
apartheid: This created the black-only "townships" or "locations", where blacks were relocated to their own towns.
apartheid: This he called his "Outward-Looking" policy.
apartheid: Instead, all coloured adults were given the right to vote for the Coloured Persons Representative Council, which had limited legislative powers.
apartheid: De Klerk responded by calling a Whites-only referendum in March 1992 to decide whether negotiations should continue.
apartheid: The PAC was hoping to strengthen their standing by attracting the support of the angry, impatient youth.
apartheid: From 1973 onwards, much of South Africa's white population increasingly looked upon their country as a bastion of the free world besieged militarily, politically, and culturally by Communism and radical black nationalism.
apartheid: Minor officials would administer tests to determine if someone should be categorised either Coloured or White, or if another person should be categorised either Coloured or Black.
apartheid: A pass was issued for one magisterial district (usually one town) confining the holder to that area only.
apartheid: The government responded to a series of popular uprisings and protests with police brutality, which in turn increased local support for the armed resistance struggle.
apartheid: Eight black universities were created in the homelands.
apartheid: As the HNP government's minister of native affairs from 1950, Hendrik Verwoerd had a significant role in crafting such laws, which led to him being regarded as the 'Architect of Apartheid'.
apartheid: Mandela's reply was read in public by his daughter Zinzi – his first words distributed publicly since his sentence to prison 21 years earlier.
apartheid: Independent Bantustans (Transkei, Bophutatswana, Venda and Ciskei; also known as the TBVC states) were intended to be fully sovereign.
apartheid: In the days of slavery, slaves required passes to travel away from their owners.
apartheid: Apartheid pervaded culture as well as the law, and was entrenched by most of the mainstream media.
apartheid: More overtly, a group of White intellectuals met the ANC in Senegal for talks known as the Dakar Conference.
apartheid: The length of national service was gradually extended to 12 months in 1972 and 24 months in 1978.
apartheid: Under the homelands system, blacks would no longer be citizens of South Africa, becoming citizens of the independent homelands who worked in South Africa as foreign migrant labourers on temporary work permits.
apartheid: They were classified as part of the Coloured racial group.
apartheid: The Black Homeland Citizenship Act of 1970 marked a new phase in the Bantustan strategy.
apartheid: Adjustments were made such that the NP controlled 77 of these seats.
apartheid: Afrikaner political thought: analysis and documents.
apartheid: Lucas Mangope, leader of the Bophuthatswana homeland, declared that it would not take part in the elections.
apartheid: Black people were not allowed to employ whites in white South Africa.
apartheid: Strijdom, Malan's successor as prime minister, moved to strip voting rights from black and Coloured residents of the Cape Province.
apartheid: The government punished political offenders brutally.
apartheid: For example, South Africa's activities in Angola, initially limited to containing PLAN, later escalated to direct involvement in the Angolan Civil War.
apartheid: The Suppression of Communism Act of 1950 banned the Communist Party of South Africa and any party subscribing to Communism.
apartheid: The apartheid bureaucracy devised complex (and often arbitrary) criteria at the time that the Population Registration Act was implemented to determine who was Coloured.
apartheid: This precipitated several artillery duels with the Zambian Army.
apartheid: They played an important role in the anti-apartheid movement: for example the African Political Organization established in 1902 had an exclusively Coloured membership.
apartheid: The Afrikaans Medium Decree of 1974 required the use of Afrikaans and English on an equal basis in high schools outside the homelands.
apartheid: The ANC then chose to launch an armed struggle through a newly formed military wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK), which would perform acts of sabotage on tactical state structures.
apartheid: Like the Reagan administration, the government of Margaret Thatcher pursued a policy of "constructive engagement" with the apartheid government, vetoing the imposition of UN economic sanctions.
apartheid: Since the end of apartheid, elections have been open and competitive, and the lives of South Africans have improved across multiple metrics.
apartheid: Abortion, homosexuality and sex education were also restricted; abortion was legal only in cases of rape or if the mother's life was threatened.
apartheid: In 1966, he met the heads of the neighbouring states of Lesotho, Swaziland and Botswana.
apartheid: In 1975, Israeli defence minister Shimon Peres signed a security pact with South African defence minister P.W.
apartheid: Protests against certain tours brought about the cancellation of a number of other visits, including that of an England rugby team touring South Africa in 1969–70.
apartheid: Sophiatown was destroyed by bulldozers, and a new white suburb named Triomf (Triumph) was built in its place.
apartheid: A notable survivor, Frank Chikane, survived an assassination attempt with supplied poison from Project Coast.
apartheid: One participant who was a doctor said that it was considered the norm for Non-White and White doctors to mingle while working at the hospital but when there was any down time or breaks, they were to go back to their segregated quarters.
apartheid: In 1967, the two states set out their political and economic relations.
apartheid: The legacy of this town planning element still hinders economic integration of urban economies in the twenty-first century, physically separating semi-formal township economies from industrial and corporate clusters in cities.
apartheid: In 1976, leading up to a United States House of Representatives resolution urging the President to not recognise Transkei, the South African government intensely lobbied lawmakers to oppose the bill.
apartheid: Many died in violence between members of Inkatha and the UDF-ANC faction.
apartheid: However, their secondary objective was to dissuade neighbouring states from offering sanctuary to MK, PLAN, APLA, and similar organisations.
apartheid: In 1797, the Landdrost and Heemraden, local officials, of Swellendam and Graaff-Reinet extended pass laws beyond slaves and decreed that all Khoikhoi (designated as Hottentots) moving about the country for any purpose should carry passes.
apartheid: During the 1980s the government, led by P.W.
apartheid: The act defined Communism and its aims so sweepingly that anyone who opposed government policy risked being labelled as a Communist.
apartheid: As a result, South Africa withdrew from the Commonwealth on 31 May 1961, the day that the Republic came into existence.
apartheid: South African military intelligence agents were known to have abducted and killed anti-apartheid activists and others suspected of having ties to MK in London and Brussels.
apartheid: Until then, most settlements had people of different races living side by side.
apartheid: A number of clandestine meetings were held between the ANC-in-exile and various sectors of the internal struggle, such as women and educationalists.
apartheid: de Klerk announced that he would repeal discriminatory laws and lift the 30-year ban on leading anti-apartheid groups such as the African National Congress, the Pan Africanist Congress, the South African Communist Party (SACP) and the United Democratic Front.
apartheid: This was due mostly to the intense rivalry between the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) and the ANC and the eruption of some traditional tribal and local rivalries between the Zulu and Xhosa historical tribal affinities, especially in the Southern Natal provinces.
apartheid: In the aftermath, Mandela and de Klerk agreed to meet to find ways to end the spiralling violence.
apartheid: The same year, the Native Administration Act 1956 allowed the government to banish blacks.
apartheid: Until 1955, Sophiatown had been one of the few urban areas where black people were allowed to own land, and was slowly developing into a multiracial slum.
apartheid: His white minority regime worried about Soviet aid to revolutionaries in South Africa at the same time that South African economic growth had slowed.
apartheid: This meant that both the electorate and the world were "simply left to guess at the way the final result was achieved".
apartheid: Sotho, Tswana, Pedi and Venda speakers were placed at the newly founded University College of the North at Turfloop, while the University College of Zululand was launched to serve Zulu students.
apartheid: Hani, the popular General Secretary of the South African Communist Party (SACP), was assassinated in 1993 in Dawn Park in Johannesburg by Janusz Waluś, an anti-Communist Polish refugee who had close links to the White nationalist Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging (AWB).
apartheid: The Prevention of Illegal Squatting Act of 1951 allowed the government to demolish black shanty town slums and forced white employers to pay for the construction of housing for those black workers who were permitted to reside in cities otherwise reserved for whites.
