apple_inc.: This beat the non-inflation-adjusted record for market capitalization previously set by Microsoft in 1999.
apple_inc.: The iPad ran the same touch-based operating system as the iPhone, and all iPhone apps were compatible with the iPad.
apple_inc.: On January 14, 2009, Jobs announced in an internal memo that he would be taking a six-month medical leave of absence from Apple until the end of June 2009 and would spend the time focusing on his health.
apple_inc.: This redesign included physical changes to the Apple Stores, such as open spaces and re-branded rooms, and changes in function to facilitate interaction between consumers and professionals.
apple_inc.: Apple's first logo, designed by Ron Wayne, depicts Sir Isaac Newton sitting under an apple tree.
apple_inc.: On April 20, 2026, Apple announced that Tim Cook will step down as CEO on September 1, 2026, to be succeeded by John Ternus, the Senior Vice President of Hardware Engineering.
apple_inc.: On April 2, 2007, Apple and EMI jointly announced the removal of DRM technology from EMI's catalog in the iTunes Store, effective in May 2007.
apple_inc.: In June 2024, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published a report about an electronic computer manufacturing facility leased by Apple in 2015 in Santa Clara, California, code named Aria.
apple_inc.: Jobs became Apple's de facto leader and was formally appointed interim CEO on September 16.
apple_inc.: In 1984, Apple launched the Macintosh, the first personal computer without a bundled programming language.
apple_inc.: It sold more than 300,000 units on its first day, and 500,000 by the end of the first week.
apple_inc.: Apple unions are made up of retail, corporate, and outsourced workers.
apple_inc.: Although Apple Store employees receive above-average pay, are offered money toward education and health care, and receive product discounts, there are limited or no paths of career advancement.
apple_inc.: Due to the popularity of the brand, Apple receives a large number of job applications, many of which come from young workers.
apple_inc.: Some litigation examples include Apple v.
apple_inc.: The new features received praise from law enforcement and victims rights advocates.
apple_inc.: Apple experimented with several other unsuccessful consumer targeted products during the 1990s, including QuickTake digital cameras, PowerCD portable CD audio players, speakers, the Pippin video game console, the eWorld online service, and Apple Interactive Television Box.
apple_inc.: Key Grip's development also led to Apple's release of the consumer video-editing product iMovie in October 1999.
apple_inc.: Significant concerns have been raised about labor issues in its supply chain, restrictions on the right to repair, and the company's tax strategies and environmental impact.
apple_inc.: Apple was ranked No.
apple_inc.: In June 2023, Apple formally announced its first mixed reality headset, the Apple Vision Pro, which ran its new visionOS operating system.
apple_inc.: The Apple I and early Apple II models used ordinary audio cassette tapes as storage devices, which were superseded by the 5+1⁄4-inch floppy disk drive and interface called the Disk II in 1978.
apple_inc.: After the departures of Jobs and Wozniak in 1985, Sculley launched the Macintosh 512K that year with quadruple the RAM, and introduced the LaserWriter, the first reasonably priced PostScript-based laser printer.
apple_inc.: As of June 6, 2016, Apple's solar farms in California and Nevada have been declared to provide 217.9 megawatts of solar generation capacity.
apple_inc.: In 2003, the iTunes Store was introduced with music downloads for 99¢ a song and iPod integration.
apple_inc.: Apple evangelists were actively engaged by the company at one time, but this was after the phenomenon had already been firmly established.
apple_inc.: Under Spindler, Apple, IBM, and Motorola formed the AIM alliance in 1994 to create a new computing platform (the PowerPC Reference Platform or PReP), with IBM and Motorola hardware coupled with Apple software.
apple_inc.: This fall is attributed to the slowing economy and consumers putting off purchases of iPads and computers due to increased pricing.
apple_inc.: This was done by Tim Cook, who had a background in supply-chain management.
apple_inc.: In 2023, Bloomberg's Mark Gurman revealed the existence of Apple's Exploratory Design Group (XDG), which was working to add glucose monitoring to the Apple Watch.
apple_inc.: However, iPhone sales held up with a year-on-year increase of 1.5%.
apple_inc.: Under his leadership, Apple returned to profitability by introducing the iMac, iPod, iPhone, and iPad devices; creating the iTunes Store; launching the "Think different" advertising campaign; and opening the Apple Store retail chain.
apple_inc.: At its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC), Apple introduced the new "Liquid Glass" design language, rolled out unified system design updates across iOS 26, iPadOS 26, macOS Tahoe, and other platforms, and significantly expanded the capabilities of Apple Intelligence.
apple_inc.: The majority of industrial labor disputes (including union recognition) involving Apple occur indirectly through its suppliers and contractors, notably Foxconn plants in China and, to a lesser extent, in Brazil and India.
apple_inc.: tax residency rules", the report said.
apple_inc.: The restructuring eliminated approximately 3,000 jobs.
apple_inc.: However, claims made by later campaigns were criticized, particularly the 2005 Power Mac ads.
apple_inc.: In June 2009, Apple's iPhone 3GS was free of PVC, arsenic, and BFRs.
apple_inc.: This adds a menu in Safari for downloading alternative browsers, such as Chrome or Firefox.
apple_inc.: Apple has received criticism regarding its contractors' labor conditions, its relationship with trade unions, its environmental practices, and its corporate ethics, including anti-competitive tactics, materials sourcing, and its acquisitions of smaller businesses.
apple_inc.: Apple also sells a variety of accessories for Macs, including the Studio Display and Studio Display XDR, Magic Mouse, Magic Trackpad, and Magic Keyboard.
apple_inc.: Competition in the AI space escalated, with rivals gaining ground.
apple_inc.: Further insider reports state that the device uses iris scanning for payment confirmation and signing into accounts.
apple_inc.: In December 2017, Glassdoor said Apple was the 48th best place to work, having originally entered at rank 19 in 2009, peaking at rank 10 in 2012, and falling down the ranks in subsequent years.
apple_inc.: Facebook had, however, stated that the company would not participate directly with the lawsuit, although did commit to helping with the discovery of evidence relating to the trial of 2021.
apple_inc.: In July 2022, Apple reported an 11% decline in Q3 profits compared to 2021.
apple_inc.: Though Jobs was absent, Apple recorded its best non-holiday quarter (Q1 FY 2009) during the recession, with revenue of $8.16 billion and profit of $1.21 billion.
apple_inc.: As of 2026, the series of Mac include either the M5 Apple silicon chip, available in the MacBook Pro and MacBook Air, and the A18 Pro–powered MacBook Neo, the company's first ostensibly 'entry level' MacBook product.
apple_inc.: In 1996, Spindler was replaced as CEO by Gil Amelio, who was hired for his reputation as a corporate rehabilitator.
apple_inc.: Compared to that of 2022, revenue for 2023 fell by 3%.
apple_inc.: It has been suggested that the combination of Macintosh, LaserWriter, and PageMaker was responsible for the creation of the desktop publishing market.
apple_inc.: These launches were successful, with the iPhone 5 (released September 21, 2012) becoming Apple's biggest iPhone launch with over two million pre-orders and sales of three million iPads in three days following the launch of the iPad Mini and fourth-generation iPad (released November 3, 2012).
apple_inc.: This increased to 116,000 full-time employees the next year, a notable hiring decrease, largely due to its first revenue decline.
apple_inc.: Levinson (chairman)
Tim Cook (executive director and CEO)
Wanda Austin
Alex Gorsky
Andrea Jung
Monica Lozano
Ronald Sugar
Susan Wagner
apple_inc.: The Apple I was sold as a motherboard with CPU, RAM, and basic textual-video chips—a base kit concept which was not yet marketed as a complete personal computer.
apple_inc.: During the Apple Special Event in September 2017, the AirPower wireless charger was announced alongside the iPhone X, iPhone 8, and Watch Series 3.
apple_inc.: There are six Mac computer families in production:
apple_inc.: Apple does not specify how many of its employees work in retail, though its 2014 SEC filing put the number at approximately half of its employee base.
apple_inc.: When Apple surpassed Dell's market cap in January 2006, Jobs sent an email to Apple employees saying Dell's CEO Michael Dell should eat his words.
apple_inc.: The device has been credited with creating the app economy.
apple_inc.: In 1991, Apple introduced the PowerBook, a commercially successful laptop whose clamshell design influenced later notebook computers.
apple_inc.: The inspection found that Apple was potentially mistreating waste as only subject to California regulations and that it had potentially miscalculated the effectiveness of Apple's activated carbon filters, which filter volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from the air.
apple_inc.: In the wake of the alliance, Apple opened up to the idea of allowing Motorola and other companies to build Macintosh clones.
apple_inc.: Under the agreement, Jobs returned to Apple as an advisor.
apple_inc.: MacBook Pro: Professional notebook, introduced in 2006.
apple_inc.: Rowe Price (203,500,000 shares, 1.39%)
Norges Bank (192,260,000 shares, 1.31%)
apple_inc.: Later, in December 2020, Facebook agreed to assist Epic in its legal game against Apple, planning to support the company by providing materials and documents to Epic.
apple_inc.: On March 19, 2012, Apple announced plans for a $2.65-per-share dividend beginning in the fourth quarter of 2012, per approval by its board of directors.
apple_inc.: A study by Verizon subsidiary Flurry Analytics reported only 4% of iOS users in the United States and 12% worldwide have opted into tracking.
apple_inc.: The AIM alliance hoped that PReP's performance and Apple's software would leave the PC far behind and thus counter the dominance of Windows.
apple_inc.: The company also has several other locations in Boulder, Colorado; Culver City, California; Herzliya (Israel), London, New York, Pittsburgh, San Diego, and Seattle that each employ hundreds of people.
apple_inc.: The iPad remains the most popular tablet computer by sales as of the second quarter of 2020, and accounted for seven percent of the company's revenue as of the end of 2024.
apple_inc.: However, the facilities are connected to the local grid which usually contains a mix of fossil and renewable sources, so Apple uses carbon offsets for its electricity use.
apple_inc.: Rather than submit to Sculley's direction, Jobs attempted to oust him from leadership.
apple_inc.: It ranked third, overall, with US$233 billion in revenue.
apple_inc.: The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple's effort to develop its own chips left it better prepared to deal with the semiconductor shortage that emerged during the COVID-19 pandemic, which led to increased profitability, with sales of M1-based Mac computers rising sharply in 2020 and 2021.
apple_inc.: Apple products were made in the United States in Apple-owned factories until the late 1990s; however, as a result of outsourcing initiatives in the 2000s, almost all of its manufacturing is now handled abroad.
apple_inc.: Apple Computer, Inc.
apple_inc.: This enables iOS users in the 27-nation bloc to use alternative app stores, and alternative payment methods within apps.
apple_inc.: Apple Stores underwent a period of significant redesign, beginning in May 2016.
apple_inc.: However, by 1996, Apple executives were worried that the clones were cannibalizing sales of its own high-end computers, where profit margins were highest.
apple_inc.: In November 2023, Apple agreed to a $25-million settlement in a US Department of Justice case that alleged Apple was discriminating against US citizens in hiring.
apple_inc.: On July 21, 2020, Apple announced its plan to become carbon neutral across its entire business, manufacturing supply chain, and product life cycle by 2030.
apple_inc.: Apple has a strong culture of corporate secrecy, and has an anti-leak Global Security team that recruits from the National Security Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the United States Secret Service.
apple_inc.: Additional partnerships for original series included Sesame Workshop and DHX Media and its subsidiary Peanuts Worldwide, and a partnership with A24 to create original films.
apple_inc.: The company's first product was the Apple I, a computer designed and hand-built entirely by Wozniak.
apple_inc.: As the company has grown and been led by a series of differently opinionated chief executives, some media have suggested that it has lost some of its original character.
apple_inc.: The company was founded to market Wozniak's Apple I personal computer.
apple_inc.: Cory Doctorow, a Canadian intellectual property researcher and activist, characterized Apple's strategy of promoting interoperability with its own products while simultaneously reducing functionality for competitors as an anti-competitive practice.
apple_inc.: Jobs resigned from Apple in September 1985 and took several Apple employees with him to found NeXT.
apple_inc.: The Apple Fellows program awards employees for extraordinary technical or leadership contributions to personal computing.
apple_inc.: The feature, called "App Tracking Transparency", received heavy criticism from Facebook, whose primary business model revolves around the tracking of users' data and sharing such data with advertisers so users can see more relevant ads, a technique commonly known as targeted advertising.
apple_inc.: The purchase was approved by the European Union in September 2018.
apple_inc.: As of 2023, there were over 2 billion Apple devices in active use worldwide.
apple_inc.: Other record labels eventually followed suit and Apple published a press release in January 2009 to announce that all songs on the iTunes Store are available without its FairPlay DRM.
apple_inc.: The program allows its users to apply for loans between $50 and $1,000 to make online or in-app purchases and then repaying them through four installments spread over six weeks without any interest or fees.
apple_inc.: Jackson, Apple's vice president of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives who reports directly to CEO, Tim Cook, announced that as of March 2016, 93% of Apple's worldwide operations are powered with renewable energy.
apple_inc.: Greenpeace praised Apple's sustainability, noting that the company exceeded its 70% global recycling goal in 2010.
apple_inc.: Apple Computer.
apple_inc.: The company typically grants stock options to executives every other year.
apple_inc.: Later that year on April 3, 2010, the iPad was launched in the US.
apple_inc.: In April 2025, Apple was found guilty and fined €500 million ($570 million) for violating the Digital Markets Act.
apple_inc.: Apple's product advertisements gained significant attention as a result of their graphics and song choice.
apple_inc.: Users are explicitly asked if they want to participate, and can actively opt-in or opt-out.
apple_inc.: In May 2014, Apple confirmed its intent to acquire Dr.
apple_inc.: That year, Apple introduced the Power Macintosh, the first of many computers with Motorola's PowerPC processor.
apple_inc.: The announcement was expected by industry analysts, and it has been noted that Macs featuring Apple's processors would allow for big increases in performance over current Intel-based models.
apple_inc.: In 1993, the Apple II series was discontinued.
apple_inc.: On August 13, 2020, Epic Games, the maker of the popular game Fortnite, sued Apple and Google after Fortnite was removed from Apple's and Google's app stores.
apple_inc.: An Aqua-themed version of the logo was used from 1997 until 2003, and a glass-themed version was used from 2007 until 2013.
apple_inc.: The facility, which opened in 1980, houses 5,500 people and was Apple's first location outside of the United States.
apple_inc.: In January 2026, Apple acquired Q.ai, an Israeli artificial intelligence startup specializing in imaging and machine learning technologies for audio processing.
apple_inc.: Within a month, the store sold 60 million applications and registered an average daily revenue of $1 million, with Jobs speculating in August 2008 that the App Store could become a billion-dollar business for Apple.
apple_inc.: This gave the iPad a large app catalog on launch, though having very little development time before the release.
apple_inc.: In an article posted on Apple's website on February 6, 2007, Jobs wrote that Apple would be willing to sell music on the iTunes Store without digital rights management, thereby allowing tracks to be played on third-party players if record labels would agree to drop the technology.
apple_inc.: The iPhone has generated large profits for the company, and is credited with helping to make Apple one of the world's most valuable publicly traded companies.
apple_inc.: With Apple's release of an update to iOS 14, Apple required all developers of iPhone, iPad, and iPod Touch applications to directly ask iPhone users permission to track them.
apple_inc.: Apple made significant investments in the Newton tablet division; the Newton was later criticized for high costs and limited commercial success, and commentators have attributed the decision to start that division in part to market forecasts by CEO John Sculley.
apple_inc.: In 2016, after a two-year investigation, the European Commission claimed that Apple's use of a hybrid Double Irish tax arrangement constituted "illegal state aid" from Ireland, and ordered Apple to pay €13 billion ($14.5 billion) in unpaid taxes, the largest corporate tax fine in history.
apple_inc.: Apple acquired the German company Astarte in April 2000, which had developed the DVD authoring software DVDirector, which Apple repackaged as the professional-oriented DVD Studio Pro, and reused its technology to create iDVD for the consumer market.
apple_inc.: The Macintosh shipped for $2,495 (equivalent to $7,700 in 2025), a price panned by critics due to its slow performance.
apple_inc.: In the email, Jobs stated that "the curiosity over my personal health continues to be a distraction not only for me and my family, but everyone else at Apple as well", and explained that the break would allow the company "to focus on delivering extraordinary products".
apple_inc.: During the first five years of operations, revenue grew exponentially, doubling about every four months.
apple_inc.: As of 2024, Apple was the world's fourth-largest personal computer vendor, the largest vendor of tablet computers, and the largest vendor of mobile phones.
apple_inc.: media events
Outline of Apple Inc.
apple_inc.: In May 2023, Apple reported a decline in its sales for the first quarter of 2023.
apple_inc.: Mac Mini: Consumer sub-desktop computer, introduced in 2005.
apple_inc.: On December 31, 2024, a preliminary settlement was filed in the Oakland California federal court that accused Apple of unlawfully recording private conversations, through unintentional Siri activations, and of sharing them with third parties, including advertisers.
apple_inc.: The company has been criticized for alleged anti-competitive behavior
 and its alleged participation in the PRISM surveillance program.
apple_inc.: By 2013, Apple was using 100% renewable energy to power its data centers.
apple_inc.: Apple relies on a larger, outsourced workforce for manufacturing, particularly in China where Apple directly employs 10,000 workers across its retail and corporate divisions.
apple_inc.: Apple continues to score well on product ratings, with all of its products now being free of PVC plastic and BFRs.
apple_inc.: Apple says that it is the single largest taxpayer in the US, with an effective tax rate of approximately of 26% as of Q2 FY2016.
apple_inc.: Jobs streamlined Apple's product lineup, eliminating roughly 70 percent of existing models and introducing a simplified 'four-quadrant' product strategy consisting of one desktop and one laptop computer each for consumer and professional markets.
apple_inc.: The release of iPhoto that year completed the iLife suite.
apple_inc.: Apple's North Carolina data center is already powered entirely by renewable sources.
apple_inc.: It also introduced "differential privacy", a way to collect crowdsourced data from many users, while keeping individual users anonymous, in a system that Wired described as "trying to learn as much as possible about a group while learning as little as possible about any individual in it".
apple_inc.: The magazine MacAddict named the period between 1989 and 1991 as the "first golden age" of the Macintosh.
apple_inc.: at Encyclopædia Britannica
apple_inc.: The company contended with a 19% decline in stock value year-to-date, ongoing antitrust investigations by the US Department of Justice, and legal disputes involving the App Store.
apple_inc.: Neither received the full selling price, but together they earned $1,300 (equivalent to $7,400 in 2025).
apple_inc.: It was priced at $666.66 (equivalent to $3,770 in 2025).
apple_inc.: Most have been dismissed in the courts as shell companies known as patent trolls, with no evidence of actual use of patents in question.
apple_inc.: On August 2, 2018, Apple became the first publicly traded US company to reach a $1 trillion market value, and, as of October 2025, is valued at just over $4 trillion.
apple_inc.: While denying any wrongdoing, Apple settled the case, allowing affected users to potentially claim up to $20 per device.
apple_inc.: On May 21, 2013, Apple CEO Tim Cook defended his company's tax tactics at a Senate hearing.
apple_inc.: Apple also released a third-generation 13-inch MacBook Pro with a Retina display and new iMac and Mac Mini computers.
apple_inc.: He was replaced by Cook and Jobs became Apple's chairman.
apple_inc.: This was hailed as a watershed event for Apple's success and was called a "masterpiece" by CNN and one of the greatest TV advertisements of all time by TV Guide.
apple_inc.: The same year, Apple introduced System 7, a major upgrade to the Macintosh operating system, adding color to the interface and introducing new networking capabilities.
apple_inc.: The Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) allows consumers to see the effect a product has on the environment.
apple_inc.: The acquisition was the largest purchase in Apple's history.
apple_inc.: The Apple Campus was the company's headquarters from its opening in 1993, until the opening of Apple Park in 2017.
apple_inc.: For instance, Ron Johnson—Senior Vice President of Retail Operations until November 1, 2011—was responsible for site selection, in-store service, and store layout, yet had no control of the inventory in his stores.
apple_inc.: Department of Justice.
apple_inc.: Apple and WWF's Apps for Earth campaign raised more than $8 million in total proceeds to support WWF's conservation work.
apple_inc.: The acquisition was followed by the development of Apple's consumer-level GarageBand application.
apple_inc.: Despite continued growth in its services sector, including a new all-time high for services revenue in the March quarter and the launch of updated models such as the iPhone 16e and M4 MacBook Air, Apple faced significant challenges.
apple_inc.: It was almost immediately replaced by Rob Janoff's "rainbow Apple", the now-familiar rainbow-colored silhouette of an apple with a bite taken out of it.
apple_inc.: In total, Apple occupies almost 40% of the available office space in the city.
apple_inc.: Jobs and Wozniak remained Apple shareholders following their departures.
apple_inc.: According to published reports by Bloomberg News on March 30, 2022, Apple turned over data such as phone numbers, physical addresses, and IP addresses to hackers posing as law enforcement officials using forged documents.
apple_inc.: As of the end of 2024, services comprise about 26% of the company's revenue.
apple_inc.: The software landscape at Apple underwent a transformation in 2025.
apple_inc.: Over the years, Apple has expanded the number of retail locations and its geographical coverage, with 499 stores across 22 countries worldwide as of December 2017.
apple_inc.: The Apple II was chosen to be the desktop platform for the first killer application of the business world: VisiCalc, a spreadsheet program released in 1979.
apple_inc.: The Apple II, also designed by Wozniak, was introduced on April 16, 1977, at the first West Coast Computer Faire.
apple_inc.: Levinson, who continued with those titles until Levinson replaced Jobs as chairman of the board in November after Jobs' death.
apple_inc.: According to a report from Bloomberg in 2018, the facility is used to develop microLED screens under the code name T159.
apple_inc.: The buildings, located at 1–6 Infinite Loop, are arranged in a circular pattern around a central green space, in a design that has been compared to that of a university.
apple_inc.: Furthermore, Apple has faced scrutiny for its business operations in nations with restrictive human rights records, such as China.
apple_inc.: According to Apple, demands for such devices were strong, particularly in Latin America and South Asia.
apple_inc.: By 1985, internal conflicts led to Jobs leaving the company to form NeXT and Wozniak withdrawing to other ventures; John Sculley was CEO for over a decade.
apple_inc.: Apple has faced criticism regarding its market practices, labor conditions, and privacy policies.
apple_inc.: The commitment was a large step in Apple's efforts to help manufacturers lower their carbon footprint in China.
apple_inc.: Over the next two years, 75 distinct Macintosh clone models were introduced.
apple_inc.: In addition to Apple Park and the Apple Campus, Apple occupies an additional thirty office buildings scattered throughout the city of Cupertino, including three buildings as prior headquarters: Stephens Creek Three from 1977 to 1978, Bandley One from 1978 to 1982, and Mariani One from 1982 to 1993.
apple_inc.: Samsung, Apple v.
apple_inc.: The product was first sold on November 10, 2001, and sold over 100 million units within six years.
apple_inc.: Apple's international sales and distribution arms operate out of the campus in Cork.
apple_inc.: Microsoft Corp.
apple_inc.: The Christmas season of 1989 was the first in the company's history to have declining sales, which led to a 20% drop in Apple's stock price.
apple_inc.: The law enforcement requests sometimes included forged signatures of real or fictional officials.
apple_inc.: "Apple has exploited a difference between Irish and U.S.
apple_inc.: Apple has been a participant in various legal proceedings and claims since it began operation.
apple_inc.: With the popularity rise of cloud storage solutions, Apple began a technique in 2016 to do deep learning scans for facial data in photos on the user's local device and encrypting the content before uploading it to Apple's iCloud storage system.
apple_inc.: To finance its creation, Jobs sold his Volkswagen Bus, and Wozniak sold his HP-65 calculator.
apple_inc.: Amelio made big changes, including extensive layoffs and cost-cutting.
apple_inc.: Jobs often walked around the office barefoot even after Apple became a Fortune 500 company.
apple_inc.: Apple created jobs that were not listed online and that required a paper submission application, while advertising these jobs to foreign workers as part of recruitment for PERM.
apple_inc.: According to a 2011 report in Fortune, this has resulted in a corporate culture more akin to a startup rather than a multinational corporation.
apple_inc.: Though initially set to release in early 2018, the AirPower would be canceled in March 2019, marking the first cancellation of a device under Cook's leadership.
apple_inc.: The success of lower-cost consumer Macs, especially the LC, cannibalized higher-priced machines.
apple_inc.: On June 6, 2016, Fortune released the Fortune 500, its annual list of companies ranked on revenue generation.
apple_inc.: is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Cupertino, California, in Silicon Valley, and known for consumer electronics, software and online services.
apple_inc.: Apple introduced the Lisa in 1983 and the Macintosh in 1984 as some of the first computers to use a graphical user interface and a mouse.
apple_inc.: Gurman compared XDG to Alphabet's X "moonshot factory".
apple_inc.: The major product flops and the rapid loss of market share to Windows sullied Apple's reputation, and in 1993 Sculley was replaced as CEO by Michael Spindler.
apple_inc.: In September 2017, Apple announced that it had over 123,000 full-time employees.
apple_inc.: Apple agreed to a $95-million cash settlement to resolve this lawsuit in which its Siri assistant violated user privacy.
apple_inc.: Since the company's founding and into the early 2000s, Apple primarily sold computers, which are marketed as Macintosh since the mid-1980s.
apple_inc.: Wozniak speculates that Jobs' sense of rivalry towards the Lisa project was the driving force behind this sudden shift in direction.
apple_inc.: The move further rattled the board, which ousted Amelio as CEO the following month.
apple_inc.: On November 10, 2012, Apple confirmed a global settlement that dismissed all existing lawsuits between Apple and HTC up to that date, in favor of a ten-year license agreement for current and future patents between the two companies.
apple_inc.: Musicians who benefited from an improved profile as a result of their songs being included on Apple advertisements include Canadian singer Feist with the song "1234" and Yael Naïm with the song "New Soul".
apple_inc.: He was succeeded as CEO by Tim Cook, who will be succeeded by John Ternus in September 2026.
apple_inc.: Apple acquired Macromedia's Key Grip digital video editing software project, which was launched as Final Cut Pro in April 1999.
apple_inc.: Apple also introduced Boot Camp in 2006 to help users install Windows XP or Windows Vista on their Intel Macs alongside Mac OS X.
apple_inc.: The AirPower was intended to wirelessly charge multiple devices, simultaneously.
apple_inc.: South Korean firms, including Samsung and LG, worked closely with Apple as parts partners for the iMac, iPod, and iPhone before it increased its reliance on Taiwan and China.
apple_inc.: iMac: Consumer all-in-one desktop computer, introduced in 1998.
apple_inc.: In particular, Apple is known for and promotes itself as actively and aggressively enforcing its intellectual property interests.
apple_inc.: The advertisement created great interest in the Macintosh, and sales were initially good, but began to taper off dramatically after the first three months as reviews started coming in.
apple_inc.: The EPA inspected the facility in August 2023 due to a tip from a former Apple employee who posted the report on X.
apple_inc.: In December 2025, Cook met with US House members to push back against the App Store Accountability Act which could require that Apple authenticates users' ages and possibly collect sensitive data on children.
apple_inc.: It was expensive to produce, and the company decided it was still absorbing sales from lower-cost Macintosh models.
apple_inc.: Iovine believed that Beats had always "belonged" with Apple, as the company modeled itself after Apple's "unmatched ability to marry culture and technology".
apple_inc.: Also in June 2017, Apple appointed Jamie Erlicht and Zack Van Amburg to head the newly formed worldwide video unit.
apple_inc.: In November and December 1979, Steve Jobs and Apple employees, including Jef Raskin, visited Xerox PARC, where they observed the Xerox Alto, featuring a graphical user interface (GUI) and a mouse.
apple_inc.: In an interview with the German newspaper FAZ in October 2017, Tim Cook stated that Apple was the biggest taxpayer worldwide.
apple_inc.: Apple became the first publicly traded US company to be valued at over $1 trillion in 2018, and, as of October 2025, is valued at just over $4 trillion.
apple_inc.: The company has used its iTunes platform to encourage donations in the wake of environmental disasters and humanitarian crises, such as the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the 2011 Japan earthquake, Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines in November 2013, and the 2015 European migrant crisis.
apple_inc.: This represents a movement upward of two spots from the previous year's list.
apple_inc.: Apple contributes financially to fundraisers in times of natural disasters.
apple_inc.: It differed from its major rivals, the TRS-80 and Commodore PET, because of its character cell-based color graphics and open architecture.
apple_inc.: Apple renamed the program iTunes, simplified the user interface and added CD burning.
apple_inc.: Apple completed the transition to the four-quadrant lineup on July 21, 1999, with the introduction of the consumer-oriented iBook laptop.
apple_inc.: The acquisition was confirmed a few days later, reportedly costing Apple US$400 million, with media reports that the purchase looked like a move to acquire data and tools bolstering the Apple Music streaming service.
apple_inc.: Mac, which is short for Macintosh, its official name until 1999, is Apple's line of personal computers that use the company's proprietary macOS operating system.
apple_inc.: Apple relied on high profit margins and never developed a clear response; it sued Microsoft for making a GUI similar to the Lisa in Apple Computer, Inc.
apple_inc.: High-profile departures and political tensions, including calls for Apple to manufacture iPhones domestically or face tariffs, added to the pressure, have been cited by analysts as contributing to a difficult year for CEO Tim Cook.
apple_inc.: was incorporated in Cupertino, California, on January 3, 1977, without Wayne, who had left and sold his share of the company back to Jobs and Wozniak for $800 only twelve days after having co-founded it.
apple_inc.: On September 30, 2013, Apple surpassed Coca-Cola to become the world's most valuable brand in the Omnicom Group's "Best Global Brands" report.
apple_inc.: In 2000, Apple purchased the SoundJam MP audio player software from Casady & Greene.
apple_inc.: The Macintosh had been envisioned by Jef Raskin as a low-cost, portable computer, and Wozniak had helped its development until a plane crash in early 1981 forced him to step back from the project.
apple_inc.: companies grouped at OpenCorporates
Apple Inc.
apple_inc.: Jobs had negotiated with Xerox in advance to gain access to PARC's technology, in exchange for the right to purchase $1 million worth of Apple's pre-IPO shares.
apple_inc.: Krebs was unable to replicate this behavior on older models and when asking Apple for comment, he was told by Apple that "It is expected behavior that the Location Services icon appears in the status bar when Location Services is enabled.
apple_inc.: After the launch of the LC, Apple encouraged developers to create applications for Macintosh rather than Apple II, and authorized salespersons to redirect consumers from Apple II and toward Macintosh.
apple_inc.: That year, Apple was one of the largest corporate spenders on research and development worldwide, with R&D expenditure amounting to over $27 billion.
apple_inc.: Following the deal, Q.ai's founders and approximately 100 employees joined Apple.
apple_inc.: Designed by Jony Ive, the all-in-one computer featured a distinctive translucent design enclosure, emphasized Internet connectivity (the "i" in iMac), adopted modern technologies such as USB, and omitted legacy technologies like the floppy disk drive.
apple_inc.: From the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984, with the 1984 Super Bowl advertisement to the more modern Get a Mac adverts, Apple has been recognized for its efforts toward effective advertising and marketing for its products.
apple_inc.: Prior to the release of iOS 15, Apple announced new efforts at combating child sexual abuse material on iOS and Mac platforms.
apple_inc.: The iPad is mainly marketed for consuming multimedia, creating art, working on documents, videoconferencing, and playing games.
apple_inc.: On August 27, 1999, Apple officially dropped the rainbow scheme and began to use single-color logos nearly identical in shape to the previous rainbow incarnation.
apple_inc.: It also introduced the smaller, cheaper second-generation Apple TV which allowed the rental of movies and shows.
apple_inc.: Developer logs showed that at least nine Mac models with four different M2 chips were being tested.
apple_inc.: Over time, the company has focused on developing health and fitness-oriented features on the watch, in an effort to compete with dedicated activity trackers.
apple_inc.: On November 1, 2024, Apple announced its acquisition of Pixelmator, a company known for its image editing applications for iPhone and Mac.
apple_inc.: Since then, the company has expanded its product categories to include various portable devices, starting with the now discontinued iPod (2001), and later the iPhone (2007) and iPad (2010).
apple_inc.: However, the guide criticized Apple on the Energy criteria for not seeking external verification of its greenhouse gas emissions data, and for not setting any targets to reduce emissions.
apple_inc.: It quickly became the market leader in online music services, with over 5 billion downloads by June 19, 2008.
apple_inc.: By August 7, 2006, Apple made the transition to Intel chips for the entire Mac product line—over one year sooner than announced.
apple_inc.: Between September 1977 and September 1980, yearly sales grew from $775,000 to US$118 million, an average annual growth rate of 533%.
apple_inc.: In 2023, the World Intellectual Property Organization's Madrid Yearly Review ranked Apple's number of trademark applications, filled under the Madrid System, as 10th in the world, with 74 trademark applications submitted during 2023.
apple_inc.: Jobs was also hostile to the Apple II division, which at the time generated most of the company's revenue.
apple_inc.: This dominant position in the desktop publishing market allowed the company to focus on higher price points, the so-called "high-right policy" named for its position on a price–profits chart.
apple_inc.: The EPA report stated that Apple was potentially in violation of federal regulations under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).
apple_inc.: By the end of the day, around 300 millionaires were created, including Jobs and Wozniak, from a stock price of $29 per share and a market cap of $1.778 billion.
apple_inc.: Apple has been criticized for labor sourcing and conditions at the facilities of its contract manufacturers as well as mines.
apple_inc.: Third, on October 23, 2001, the iPod portable digital audio player debuted.
apple_inc.: Multimillionaire Mike Markkula provided essential business expertise and funding of $250,000 (equivalent to $1,328,000 in 2025) to Jobs and Wozniak during the incorporation of Apple.
apple_inc.: Newer models selling at higher price points offered higher profit margin, and appeared to not affect total sales as power users snapped up every increase in speed.
apple_inc.: First, on March 24, 2001, Apple announced the release of a new modern operating system, Mac OS X.
apple_inc.: The Apple IIe was discontinued in 1993.
apple_inc.: Dre and Jimmy Iovine's audio company Beats Electronics, producer of the "Beats by Dr.
apple_inc.: It also inspired other companies like Tesla, Amazon, and Meta Platforms to pursue a similar path.
apple_inc.: In the 1990s, Apple lost considerable market share in the PC industry to the lower-priced Wintel duopoly of Intel-powered PC clones running Windows, and was reporting major losses by 1997.
apple_inc.: In November 2017, Apple announced it was branching out into original scripted programming: a drama series starring Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon, and a reboot of the anthology series Amazing Stories with Steven Spielberg.
apple_inc.: Initially, Apple marketed the device as a fashion accessory and a complement to the iPhone, that would allow people to look at their smartphones less.
apple_inc.: However, privacy advocates, including the Electronic Frontier Foundation, condemned the new features as invasive and highly prone to abuse by authoritarian governments.
apple_inc.: In April 2022, Apple opened an online store that allowed anyone in the US to view repair manuals and order replacement parts for specific recent iPhones, although the difference in cost between this method and official repair is anticipated to be minimal.
apple_inc.: The first iPhone was unveiled by Steve Jobs on January 9, 2007.
apple_inc.: Following his removal from the Lisa team, Jobs joined the company's Macintosh division in January 1981.
apple_inc.: Following a Greenpeace protest, Apple released a statement on April 17, 2012, committing to ending its use of coal and shifting to 100% renewable clean energy.
apple_inc.: the following year.
apple_inc.: Wozniak later said he was unaware of the coincidental mark of the beast in the number 666, and that he came up with the price because he liked "repeating digits".
apple_inc.: On August 24, 2012, a US jury ruled that Samsung should pay Apple $1.05 billion (£665m) in damages in an intellectual property lawsuit.
apple_inc.: Each project has a "directly responsible individual" or "DRI" in Apple jargon.
apple_inc.: Every Apple tablet, notebook, desktop computer, and display that EPEAT ranks achieves a Gold rating, the highest possible.
apple_inc.: Its current name was adopted in 2007 as the company expanded its focus from computers to consumer electronics.
apple_inc.: In the next 10 years, Apple will try to lower emissions with a series of innovative actions, including: low carbon product design, expanding energy efficiency, renewable energy, process and material innovations, and carbon removal.
apple_inc.: In 2021, Apple Together, a solidarity union, sought to bring together the company's global worker organizations.
apple_inc.: Mac OS X is based on NeXTSTEP, OpenStep, and BSD Unix, to combine the stability, reliability, and security of Unix with the ease of use of an overhauled user interface.
apple_inc.: Apple did not have a chairman at the time and instead had two co-lead directors, Andrea Jung and Arthur D.
apple_inc.: It sold approximately 800,000 units within its first five months on the market.
apple_inc.: The vast majority of its employees work at the over 500 retail Apple Stores globally.
apple_inc.: Dre" line of headphones and speaker products, and operator of the music streaming service Beats Music, for US$3 billion, and to sell its products through Apple's retail outlets and resellers.
apple_inc.: The original Macintosh operating system (System 1) was not built for multitasking (running several applications at once).
apple_inc.: On January 10, 2006, the new MacBook Pro and iMac became the first Apple computers to use Intel's Core Duo CPU.
apple_inc.: After Facebook's measures, including purchasing full-page newspaper advertisements protesting App Tracking Transparency, Apple released the update in early 2021.
apple_inc.: Apple's first slogan, "Byte into an Apple", was coined in the late 1970s.
apple_inc.: The headset was released in February of the following year.
apple_inc.: Parents of minor iMessage users can now be alerted if their child sends or receives nude photographs.
apple_inc.: "Hello" was also used to introduce the original Macintosh, Newton, iMac ("hello (again)"), and iPod.
apple_inc.: According to The New York Times, in the 1980s Apple was among the first tech companies to designate overseas salespeople in high-tax countries in a manner that allowed the company to sell on behalf of low-tax subsidiaries on other continents, sidestepping income taxes.
apple_inc.: Apple evangelist Guy Kawasaki has called the brand fanaticism "something that was stumbled upon", while Jonathan Ive claimed in 2014 that "people have an incredibly personal relationship" with Apple's products.
apple_inc.: The iPad is Apple's line of tablets, which run the company's iPadOS operating system.
apple_inc.: This was later annulled, after the European General Court ruled that the commission had provided insufficient evidence.
apple_inc.: On December 21, 2016, Nokia announced that in the US and Germany, it has filed a suit against Apple, claiming that the latter's products infringe on Nokia's patents.
apple_inc.: On June 24, 2024, the European Commission accused Apple of violating the Digital Markets Act by preventing "app developers from freely steering consumers to alternative channels for offers and content".
apple_inc.: During an event on March 21, 2016, Apple provided a status update on its environmental initiative to be 100% renewable in all of its worldwide operations.
apple_inc.: During this period, the relationship between Sculley and Gassée deteriorated, leading Sculley to effectively demote Gassée in January 1990 by appointing Michael Spindler as the chief operating officer.
apple_inc.: to Apple Inc., because the company had broadened its focus from computers to consumer electronics.
apple_inc.: On January 12, 2026, Apple announced a partnership with Google Gemini for AI-powered Siri.
apple_inc.: Chief operating officer Tim Cook assumed Jobs' day-to-day operations at Apple, although Jobs would still remain "involved in major strategic decisions".
apple_inc.: Zhengzhou Technology Park alone employs 350,000 Chinese workers in Zhengzhou to exclusively work on the iPhone.
apple_inc.: This logo has been erroneously referred to as a tribute to Alan Turing, with the bite mark a reference to his method of suicide.
apple_inc.: The media initially speculated that Apple would fail, but they exceeded the sales numbers of competing nearby stores, and within three years reached US$1 billion in annual sales, becoming the fastest retailer in history to do so.
apple_inc.: Founded in 1976 as Apple Computer Company by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne, the company was incorporated by Jobs and Wozniak as Apple Computer, Inc.
apple_inc.: On May 5, 2026, Apple settled for $250 million a shareholder lawsuit after the lawsuit was filed by Peter Landsheft in US federal court in California in 2024 over delays in AI upgrades to Siri.
apple_inc.: Nonetheless, it has maintained a reputation for fostering individuality and excellence that reliably attracts talented workers, particularly after Jobs returned.
apple_inc.: This policy began to backfire late in the decade as desktop publishing programs appeared on IBM PC compatibles with some of the same functionality of the Macintosh at far lower price points.
apple_inc.: The company's worldwide annual revenue in 2013 totaled $170 billion.
apple_inc.: As of the end of 2024, the iPhone accounts for nearly half of the company's revenue.
apple_inc.: Boston Consulting Group has ranked Apple as the world's most innovative brand every year as of 2005.
apple_inc.: This visit influenced Jobs to implement a GUI in Apple's products starting with the Apple Lisa in 1983, though he was forced out of the Lisa project during the early development.
apple_inc.: Apple co-founder Steve Jobs wanted Apple Park to look less like a business park and more like a nature refuge, and personally appeared before the Cupertino City Council in June 2011 to make the proposal, in his final public appearance before his death.
apple_inc.: In January 2012, Apple requested that its cable maker, Volex, begin producing halogen-free USB and power cables.
apple_inc.: The green bond proceeds are dedicated to the financing of environmental projects.
apple_inc.: The building opened in April 2017 and houses more than 12,000 employees.
apple_inc.: In the first quarter of 2015, the company garnered 92% of all earnings.
apple_inc.: Apple announced on August 16, 2016, that Lens Technology, one of its major suppliers in China, has committed to power all its glass production for Apple with 100 percent renewable energy by 2018.
apple_inc.: Apple employees have joined trade unions or formed works councils in Australia, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States.
apple_inc.: Its successor, the Apple II, became one of the first successful mass-produced microcomputers.
apple_inc.: The company sold 270,000 first-generation iPhones during the first 30 hours of sales, and some industry commentators described the device as "a game changer for the industry".
apple_inc.: The first Apple Stores were originally opened as two locations in May 2001 by then-CEO Steve Jobs, after years of attempting but failing store-within-a-store concepts.
apple_inc.: In November 2014, Apple arranged for all App Store revenue in a two-week period to go to the fundraiser, generating more than US$20 million, and in March 2017, it released an iPhone 7 with a red color finish.
apple_inc.: Apple offers comprehensive and transparent information about the CO2e, emissions, materials, and electrical usage concerning every product it currently produces or has sold in the past (and which it has enough data needed to produce the report), in its portfolio on its homepage.
apple_inc.: Throughout this period, Microsoft continued to gain market share with Windows by focusing on delivering software to inexpensive personal computers, while Apple was delivering a richly engineered but expensive experience.
apple_inc.: The arrangement created aligned prices for Apple products such as iPads and personal computers for about half the French retail market.
apple_inc.: In February 2023, that number exceeded 2 billion devices.
apple_inc.: The first-generation iPad was announced on January 27, 2010.
apple_inc.: The company ranked fourth of fifteen electronics companies (moving up five places from the previous year) with a score of 4.6/10.
apple_inc.: Personal computers were Apple's original business line, but as of the end of 2024 they account for only about eight percent of the company's revenue.
apple_inc.: Apple has publicly taken a pro-privacy stance, actively making privacy-conscious features and settings part of its conferences, promotional campaigns, and public image.
apple_inc.: On April 30, 2017, The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple had cash reserves of $250 billion, officially confirmed by Apple as specifically $256.8 billion a few days later.
apple_inc.: In May 2013, Apple entered the top ten of the Fortune 500 list of companies for the first time, rising 11 places above its 2012 ranking to take the sixth position.
apple_inc.: Gassée left the company later that year to set up a rival, Be Inc.
apple_inc.: Wozniak's absence allowed Jobs to take over the project and he redefined the Macintosh as a mouse-driven GUI machine similar to the Lisa.
apple_inc.: In October 2024, Apple introduced its Apple Intelligence suite, bringing generative AI features such as writing assistance, enhanced Siri capabilities, and improved photo tools to select iPhone, iPad, and Mac devices.
apple_inc.: It is predicted that Apple will make US$280 million per year from this deal with HTC.
apple_inc.: Epic Games filed a lawsuit against Apple in August 2020 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, related to Apple's practices in the App Store for iOS.
apple_inc.: Overall, 75% of the company's power came from clean renewable sources.
apple_inc.: Apple also operates from the Apple Campus (also known by its address, 1 Infinite Loop), a grouping of six buildings in Cupertino that total 850,000 square feet (79,000 m2) located about 1 mile (1.6 km) to the west of Apple Park.
apple_inc.: Apple has consistently improved the iPad's performance, with the iPad Pro adopting the same M-series chips as the Mac, though the iPad continues to receive criticism for its limited OS.
apple_inc.: During a press event on September 9, 2014, Apple introduced a smartwatch called the Apple Watch.
apple_inc.: All Apple products have EPEAT Gold status and beat the latest Energy Star guidelines in each product's respective regulatory category.
apple_inc.: Jobs intended that employees were to be specialists who are not exposed to functions outside their area of expertise.
apple_inc.: By October 2008, Apple was the third-largest mobile handset supplier in the world due to the popularity of the iPhone.
apple_inc.: By the time of the "1984" television advertisement, Apple's informal culture had become a key trait that differentiated it from its competitors.
apple_inc.: Apple's headquarters for Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) are located in Cork in the south of Ireland, called the Hollyhill campus.
apple_inc.: As of 2016, Apple has around US$234 billion of cash and marketable securities, of which 90% is located outside the United States for tax purposes.
apple_inc.: Jobs ended the Macintosh clone licensing program, and in September 1997, acquired the largest clone manufacturer, Power Computing.
apple_inc.: Wozniak remained employed by Apple as a representative, receiving a stipend estimated to be $120,000 per year.
apple_inc.: Apple is one of the Big Tech companies.
apple_inc.: In June 2017, Apple announced the HomePod, its smart speaker aimed to compete against Sonos, Google Home, and Amazon Echo.
apple_inc.: In August 1997, Jobs secured a $150 million investment from Microsoft and a commitment to continue developing software for the Mac platform, an agreement widely viewed as beneficial to both companies following Microsoft's antitrust settlement with the U.S.
apple_inc.: Jobs soon became frustrated with the leadership of Amelio and Apple's board, and in June 1997 anonymously sold his 1.5 million shares, sending the company's stock to a 12-year low.
apple_inc.: As of September 2020, Apple has sold more than 500 million iPads, though sales peaked in 2013.
apple_inc.: In the announcement, Pixelmator stated that there would be no significant changes to its existing apps following the acquisition.
apple_inc.: During his keynote speech at the Macworld Expo on January 9, 2007, Jobs announced the renaming of Apple Computer, Inc.
apple_inc.: Since then, new iPhone models have been released every year.
apple_inc.: In 2019, Apple announced it would be making a concerted effort to expand its service revenues.
apple_inc.: In the arrangement, Apple has committed that through April 24, WWF will receive 100% of the proceeds from the applications participating in the App Store via both the purchases of any paid apps and the In-App Purchases.
apple_inc.: The success of the lower-cost Macs and the PowerBook brought increasing revenue.
apple_inc.: Attorneys sought $28.5 million in fees from the settlement fund.
apple_inc.: In December 2019, security researcher Brian Krebs discovered that the iPhone 11 Pro would still show the arrow indicator–signifying location services are being used–at the top of the screen while the main location services toggle is enabled, despite all individual location services being disabled.
apple_inc.: The main subsidiary, a holding company that includes Apple's retail stores throughout Europe, has not paid any corporate income tax in the last five years.
apple_inc.: In June 2018, Apple signed the Writers Guild of America's minimum basic agreement and Oprah Winfrey to a multi-year content partnership.
apple_inc.: Apple also has slogans for specific product lines—for example, "iThink, therefore iMac" was used in 1998 to promote the iMac, and "Say hello to iPhone" has been used in iPhone advertisements.
apple_inc.: He followed this research by calling on the Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne to force these multinationals, which also included Google and the Coca-Cola Company, to state the effective rate of tax it pays on its UK revenues.
apple_inc.: Nevertheless, the company has a large following and enjoys a high level of customer loyalty.
apple_inc.: In January 2016, Apple announced that over one billion Apple devices were in active use worldwide.
apple_inc.: During the COVID-19 pandemic, Apple's CEO Cook announced that the company would be donating "millions" of masks to health workers in the United States and Europe.
apple_inc.: In 2015, Apple had 110,000 full-time employees.
apple_inc.: Apple acquired NeXT in 1997 for $427 million in cash, stock, stock options, and assumed debt.
apple_inc.: In 2001, Apple changed course with three announcements.
apple_inc.: Many Apple Stores are located inside shopping malls, but Apple has built several stand-alone "flagship" stores in high-profile locations.
apple_inc.: In September 2020, Epic Games founded the Coalition for App Fairness together with thirteen other companies, which aims for better conditions for the inclusion of apps in the app stores.
apple_inc.: By the end of 1997, Jobs had returned Apple to profitability, reporting a profit of $309 million.
apple_inc.: On January 17, 2011, Jobs announced in an internal Apple memo that he would take another medical leave of absence for an indefinite period to allow him to focus on his health.
apple_inc.: Its debut was signified by "1984", a US$1.5-million television advertisement directed by Ridley Scott that aired during the third quarter of Super Bowl XVIII on January 22, 1984.
apple_inc.: The Power Mac, iBook, and PowerBook brands were retired during the transition; the Mac Pro, MacBook, and MacBook Pro became their respective successors.
apple_inc.: on OpenSecrets, a website that tracks and publishes data on campaign finance and lobbying 
Apple Inc.
apple_inc.: VisiCalc created a business market for the Apple II and gave home users an additional reason to buy an Apple II: compatibility with the office, but Apple II market share remained behind home computers made by competitors such as Atari, Commodore, and Tandy.
apple_inc.: Apple also provides Apple One, which is a bundle of these services.
apple_inc.: Apple also sells several other products that it categorizes as "Wearables, Home and Accessories", such as the Apple Watch, Apple TV, AirPods, HomePod, and Apple Vision Pro.
apple_inc.: Although Apple's data centers recycle water 35 times, the increased activity in retail, corporate and data centers also increase the amount of water use to 573 million US gal (2.2 million m3) in 2015.
apple_inc.: This event also saw the announcement of the iPhone and the Apple TV.
apple_inc.: In June 2011, Jobs took the stage and unveiled iCloud, an online storage and syncing service for music, photos, files, and software which replaced MobileMe, Apple's previous attempt at content syncing.
apple_inc.: In addition, one further million workers are contracted by Apple's suppliers to assemble Apple products, including Foxconn and Pegatron.
apple_inc.: The lawsuit dragged on for years and was finally dismissed.
apple_inc.: Numerous Apple employees have stated that projects without Jobs' involvement often took longer than others.
apple_inc.: Since the program began, nearly 140,000 metric tons of waste have been diverted from landfills.
apple_inc.: Jobs resigned in 2011 for health reasons and died the same year.
apple_inc.: Between early 2003 and 2006, the price of Apple's stock increased more than tenfold, from around $6 per share (split-adjusted) to over $80.
apple_inc.: Jobs relaunched Apple's online store in 1997, and opened the first two physical stores in 2001.
apple_inc.: Apple's world corporate headquarters are located in Cupertino, in the middle of California's Silicon Valley, at Apple Park, a massive circular groundscraper building with a circumference of one mile (1.6 km).
apple_inc.: The iPhone is Apple's line of smartphones, which run the company's iOS operating system.
apple_inc.: Unlike other major US companies, Apple provides a relatively simple compensation policy for executives that does not include perks enjoyed by other CEOs like country club fees or private use of company aircraft.
apple_inc.: In June 2010, Apple released the iPhone 4, which introduced video calling using FaceTime, multitasking, and a new design with an exposed stainless steel frame as the phone's antenna system.
apple_inc.: Recipients include Bill Atkinson, Steve Capps, Rod Holt, Alan Kay, Guy Kawasaki, Al Alcorn, Don Norman, Rich Page, Steve Wozniak, and Phil Schiller.
apple_inc.: Apple sells several iPad accessories, including the Apple Pencil, Smart Keyboard, Smart Keyboard Folio, Magic Keyboard, and several adapters.
apple_inc.: MacBook Neo: Low-cost ultra-thin notebook, introduced in 2026.
apple_inc.: The company's manufacturing, procurement, and logistics enable it to execute massive product launches without having to maintain large, profit-sapping inventories.
apple_inc.: In April 2022, it was reported that Samsung Electro-Mechanics would be collaborating with Apple on its M2 chip instead of LG Innotek.
apple_inc.: Cook's catchphrase to describe his focus on the company's operational arm is: "Nobody wants to buy sour milk."
apple_inc.: Second, in May 2001, the first two Apple Store retail locations opened in Virginia and California, offering an improved presentation of the company's products.
apple_inc.: The first major product introduced under this strategy was the iMac, unveiled on May 6, 1998.
apple_inc.: This was after numerous failed attempts in the early 1990s, and several years of development.
apple_inc.: Two years later, the iTunes Store was the world's largest music retailer.
apple_inc.: These products include the AirPods line of wireless headphones, Apple TV digital media players, Apple Watch smartwatches, Beats headphones, HomePod smart speakers, and the Vision Pro mixed reality headset.
apple_inc.: It has been granted design patents and received architectural awards for its stores' designs and construction, specifically for its use of glass staircases and cubes.
apple_inc.: In 2018, Apple repatriated $285 billion to the United States, resulting in a $38-billion tax payment spread over the following eight years.
apple_inc.: Samsung appealed the damages award, which was reduced by $450 million and further granted Samsung's request for a new trial.
apple_inc.: To overhaul its market strategy, Apple acquired NeXT, bringing Jobs back to the company.
apple_inc.: Microsoft, Motorola Mobility v.
apple_inc.: Apple is one of several highly successful companies founded in the 1970s that bucked the traditional notions of corporate culture.
apple_inc.: Since 2009, all Apple products have mercury-free LED-backlit LCDs, arsenic-free glass, and non-PVC cables.
apple_inc.: At the time, many speculated that the stores would fail, but they later expanded to more than 500 locations worldwide.
apple_inc.: This extensive strategy includes the opening of a new manufacturing facility in Houston to produce servers supporting Apple Intelligence, expansion of research and development in fields like silicon engineering and AI, and the establishment of a new advanced manufacturing academy in Detroit.
apple_inc.: Its revenue in the same period rose 2% year-on-year to $83 billion, though this figure was also lower than in 2021, where the increase was at 36%.
apple_inc.: The board of directors instructed Sculley to contain Jobs and his ability to launch expensive forays into untested products.
apple_inc.: Mac Studio: Professional small form-factor workstation, introduced in 2022.
apple_inc.: In February 2026, US lawmakers requested that the United Kingdom government provide a briefing on its now-rescinded order for Apple to build a backdoor into its encrypted devices, expressing concerns about privacy and security implications of such access.
apple_inc.: Wozniak debuted the first prototype Apple I at the Homebrew Computer Club in July 1976.
apple_inc.: Apple also announced that all 14 of its final assembly sites in China are now compliant with UL's Zero Waste to Landfill validation.
apple_inc.: This period was also marked by numerous failed attempts to modernize the Macintosh operating system (the classic Mac OS).
apple_inc.: On November 10, 2020, the MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, and the Mac Mini became the first Macs powered by an Apple-designed processor, the Apple M1.
apple_inc.: Apple became the most valuable consumer-facing brand in the world, and has consistently been among the most valuable brands since then.
apple_inc.: Jobs said the smaller product lineup allowed Apple to focus more on quality and innovation.
apple_inc.: Talks with Be stalled when the CEO, former Apple executive Jean-Louis Gassée, demanded $300 million in contrast to Apple's $125-million offer.
apple_inc.: Macs use Apple silicon chips, run the macOS operating system, and include Apple software like the Safari web browser, iMovie for home movie editing, GarageBand for music creation, and the iWork productivity suite.
apple_inc.: It joined the iMac and refined versions of the existing professional Power Macintosh desktop and PowerBook laptop, completing the simplified product matrix.
apple_inc.: On July 7, 2022, Apple added Lockdown Mode to macOS 13 and iOS 16, as a response to the earlier Pegasus revelations; the mode increases security protections for high-risk users against targeted zero-day malware.
apple_inc.: In May 2022, a trademark was filed for RealityOS, an operating system reportedly intended for virtual and augmented reality headsets, first mentioned in 2017.
apple_inc.: Apple has consistently been ranked as one of the world's most valuable brands since the late 2000s.
apple_inc.: Cook is slated to become Executive Chairman of the Board, while Arthur Levinson, the long-standing non-executive chairman, will transition to the role of Lead Independent Director.
apple_inc.: In the months prior to their agreement, Facebook had been dealing with feuds against Apple relating to the prices of paid apps and privacy rule changes.
apple_inc.: In June 2007, Apple began replacing the cold cathode fluorescent lamp (CCFL) backlit LCDs in its computers with mercury-free LED-backlit LCD and arsenic-free glass, starting with the upgraded MacBook Pro.
apple_inc.: The standard, which started in January 2015, certifies that all manufacturing waste is reused, recycled, composted, or converted into energy (when necessary).
apple_inc.: Ireland's Data Protection Commission launched a privacy investigation to examine whether Apple complied with the EU's GDPR law following an investigation into how the company processes personal data with targeted ads on its platform.
apple_inc.: According to Apple, these updates were intended to address previous criticisms of fragmented interfaces and to use on‑device and cloud‑based AI to improve privacy and user experience.
apple_inc.: On August 24, 2011, Jobs resigned his position as CEO of Apple due to his health issues.
apple_inc.: When it was introduced, its multi-touch screen was described as "revolutionary" and a "game-changer" for the mobile phone industry.
apple_inc.: By 2021, Apple had more suppliers from China than Taiwan.
apple_inc.: Jean-Louis Gassée informed Sculley that Jobs had been attempting to organize a boardroom coup, and called an emergency meeting at which Apple's executive staff sided with Sculley, and stripped Jobs of all operational duties.
apple_inc.: With Apple financially struggling, the board decided to acquire NeXT, the technology company founded by Steve Jobs after his 1985 ouster from Apple, along with its NeXTSTEP operating system.
apple_inc.: According to Bloomberg, the headset may come out in 2023.
apple_inc.: Allowing consumers to make informed purchasing decisions on the products it offers for sale.
apple_inc.: In a 2017 interview, Wozniak credited watching Star Trek and attending Star Trek conventions in his youth as inspiration for co-founding Apple.
apple_inc.: The success of Apple Stores have had significant influence over other consumer electronics retailers, which have lost traffic, control and profits due to a perceived higher quality of service and products at Apple Stores.
apple_inc.: MacBook Air: Consumer ultra-thin notebook, introduced in 2008.
apple_inc.: As of the end of 2024, this broad line of products comprises about ten percent of the company's revenues.
apple_inc.: After years of speculation and multiple rumored "leaks", Apple unveiled a large screen, tablet-like media device known as the iPad on January 27, 2010.
apple_inc.: 3 on the 2023 Fortune 500 rankings of the largest United States corporations by revenue.
apple_inc.: In June 2024, Apple introduced Apple Intelligence to incorporate on-device artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities.
apple_inc.: The company also pledged to double its US Advanced Manufacturing Fund and increase collaboration with American suppliers, aiming to create tens of thousands of jobs related to R&D, AI, and manufacturing technologies.
apple_inc.: At the Worldwide Developers Conference keynote address on June 6, 2005, Jobs announced that Apple would move away from PowerPC processors, and the Mac would transition to Intel processors in 2006.
apple_inc.: Wozniak had also quit his active employment at Apple earlier in 1985 to pursue other ventures, expressing his frustration with Apple's treatment of the Apple II division and stating that the company had "been going in the wrong direction for the last five years".
apple_inc.: Apple also sells pro apps: Final Cut Pro for video production, Logic Pro for musicians and producers, and Xcode for software developers.
apple_inc.: This led to significant consumer confusion among so many models.
apple_inc.: In May 2010, Apple's market cap exceeded that of competitor Microsoft for the first time since 1989.
apple_inc.: In November 1997, the online Apple Store launched and adopted a build-to-order manufacturing model similar to that used by Dell.
apple_inc.: During its annual WWDC keynote speech on June 22, 2020, Apple announced it would move away from Intel processors, and the Mac would transition to processors developed in-house.
apple_inc.: iOS is one of the two major smartphone platforms in the world, alongside Android.
apple_inc.: As of 2018, Apple used hardware components from 43 different countries.
apple_inc.: In the trailing fiscal year of 2015, Apple was listed as the top tech company.
apple_inc.: In November 2012, it donated $2.5 million to the American Red Cross to aid relief efforts after Hurricane Sandy, and in 2017 it donated $5 million to relief efforts for both Hurricane Irma and Hurricane Harvey, and for the 2017 Central Mexico earthquake.
apple_inc.: As of 2021, Apple has donated over $250 million to Product Red.
apple_inc.: For some time, Apple was doing very well, introducing fresh new products at increasing profits.
apple_inc.: As of January 2021, 1.65 billion Apple products were in active use.
apple_inc.: Apple launched a buy now, pay later service called 'Apple Pay Later' for its Apple Wallet users in March 2023.
apple_inc.: Despite being pioneering as a mass-marketed GUI computer, the Lisa suffered from high costs and limited software options, leading to commercial failure.
apple_inc.: Although some worried about pricing themselves out of the market, the high-right policy was in full force by the mid-1980s, due to Jean-Louis Gassée's slogan of "fifty-five or die", referring to the 55% profit margins of the Macintosh II.
apple_inc.: Apple Computer Company was founded on April 1, 1976, by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne as a partnership.
apple_inc.: Apple is known for strictly enforcing accountability.
apple_inc.: At the insistence of Amelio, Jobs accepted 1.5 million Apple shares as part of the deal rather than an all-cash payment, lending credibility to the acquisition.
apple_inc.: Apple directly employs 147,000 workers including 25,000 corporate employees in Apple Park and across Silicon Valley.
apple_inc.: Jobs had required 128 kilobytes of RAM, which limited its speed and software in favor of aspiring for a projected price point of $1,000 (equivalent to $3,100 in 2025).
apple_inc.: PageMaker, an early desktop publishing application taking advantage of the PostScript language, was also released by Aldus Corporation in July 1985.
apple_inc.: This led to the Pink project in 1988, A/UX that same year, Copland in 1994, and evaluated the purchase of BeOS in 1996.
apple_inc.: The lawsuits came after Apple and Google blocked the game after it introduced a direct payment system that bypassed the fees that Apple and Google had imposed.
apple_inc.: Since 2011, Apple has for the most part been the world's largest company by market capitalization, and, as of 2024, is the largest manufacturing company by revenue, the fourth-largest PC vendor, the largest vendor of tablet computers, and the largest vendor of mobile phones.
apple_inc.: According to the French regulators, the abuses occurred between 2005 and 2017 but were first discovered after a complaint by an independent reseller, eBizcuss, in 2012.
apple_inc.: Apple has received regulatory approval to construct a landfill gas energy plant in North Carolina to use the methane emissions to generate electricity.
apple_inc.: According to Steve Jobs, the company's name was inspired by his visit to an apple farm while on a fruitarian diet.
apple_inc.: With its iOS 8 mobile operating system in 2014, the company started encrypting all contents of iOS devices through users' passcodes, making it impossible at the time for the company to provide customer data to law enforcement requests seeking such information.
apple_inc.: Nine years prior, Dell had said that if he ran Apple he would "shut it down and give the money back to the shareholders".
apple_inc.: Apple amassed 65% of all profits made by the eight largest worldwide smartphone manufacturers in quarter one of 2014, according to a report by Canaccord Genuity.
apple_inc.: On June 18, 2022, the Apple Store in Towson, Maryland, became the first to unionize in the US, with the employees voting to join the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
apple_inc.: From 1997 to 2002, the slogan "Think different" was used in advertising campaigns, and is still closely associated with Apple.
apple_inc.: In 2011, Apple's profit margins were 40 percent, compared with between 10 and 20 percent for most other hardware companies.
apple_inc.: In November 2011, Apple was featured in Greenpeace's Guide to Greener Electronics, which ranks electronics manufacturers on sustainability, climate and energy policy, and how "green" its products are.
apple_inc.: Apple has also had to defend itself against charges on numerous occasions of violating intellectual property rights.
apple_inc.: It is a Big Tech company.
apple_inc.: As of August 3, 2018, Apple was the largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization.
apple_inc.: WWF announced the results at WWDC 2016 in San Francisco.
apple_inc.: In January 2024, Apple announced compliance with the European Union's competition law, with major changes to the App Store and other services, effective on March 7.
apple_inc.: In January 2022, Ericsson sued Apple over payment of royalty of 5G technology.
apple_inc.: Toward the end of the year, TechCrunch reported that Apple was acquiring Shazam, a company that introduced its products at WWDC and specializing in music, TV, film and advertising recognition.
apple_inc.: Later that year, Apple again refreshed the iPod line by introducing a multi-touch iPod Nano, an iPod Touch with FaceTime, and an iPod Shuffle that brought back the clickwheel buttons of earlier generations.
apple_inc.: On April 14, 2016, Apple and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) announced that they have engaged in a partnership to, "help protect life on our planet".
apple_inc.: Taiwanese Apple suppliers such as Foxconn, Wistron, Pegatron, Quanta, and Compal Electronics established a sizable manufacturing presence in China.
apple_inc.: Apple makes several other products that it categorizes as "Wearables, Home and Accessories".
apple_inc.: Additionally, on-device hashing would take place on media destined for upload to iCloud, and hashes would be compared to a list of known abusive images provided by law enforcement; if enough matches were found, Apple would be alerted and authorities informed.
apple_inc.: Apple had previously showcased Pixelmator's apps during its product launches, including naming Pixelmator Pro its Mac App of the Year in 2018 for its innovative use of machine learning and AI.
apple_inc.: Elphicke also said that government contracts should be withheld from multinationals who do not pay their fair share of UK tax.
apple_inc.: The next major product announcement by Apple was on January 19, 2012, when Apple's Phil Schiller introduced iBooks Textbooks for iOS and iBooks Author for Mac OS X in New York City.
apple_inc.: The financial terms were not disclosed, though media reports estimated the acquisition at nearly US$2 billion; this is Apple's second-largest purchase to date.
apple_inc.: In 2002, Apple purchased Nothing Real for its advanced digital compositing application Shake, and Emagic for the music productivity application Logic.
apple_inc.: In the late 1980s, Apple was a pioneer of an accounting technique known as the "Double Irish with a Dutch sandwich", which reduces taxes by routing profits through Irish subsidiaries and the Netherlands and then to the Caribbean.
apple_inc.: On August 19, 2020, Apple's share price briefly topped $467.77, making it the first US company with a market capitalization of US$2 trillion.
apple_inc.: Strong product sales have placed Apple among the top-tier retail stores, with sales over $16 billion globally in 2011.
apple_inc.: The company attempted to correct this by introducing cooperative multitasking in System 5, but still decided it needed a more modern approach.
apple_inc.: Apple promised to add a new toggle for this feature and in later iOS revisions Apple provided users with the option to tap on the location services indicator in Control Center to see which specific service is using the device's location.
apple_inc.: Each product receives a Gold, Silver, or Bronze rank depending on its efficiency and sustainability.
apple_inc.: The purchase of Emagic made Apple the first computer manufacturer to own a music software company.
apple_inc.: Apple workers around the globe have been involved in organizing since the 1990s.
apple_inc.: Apple Inc., and Apple Corps v.
apple_inc.: Seeing a need for improved retail presentation of the company's products, he began an effort in 1997 to revamp the retail program to get an improved relationship to consumers, and hired Ron Johnson in 2000.
apple_inc.: In June 2023, Apple announced that it was doubling this and then distributed more than $200 million to support organizations focused on education, economic growth, and criminal justice.
apple_inc.: By the 2020s, orders were shifting to Chinese firms such as to Luxshare, BYD Electronic, Goertek, and Wingtech.
apple_inc.: According to a US Senate report on the company's offshore tax structure concluded in May 2013, Apple has held billions of dollars in profits in Irish subsidiaries to pay little or no taxes to any government by using an unusual global tax structure.
apple_inc.: On January 13, 2021, Apple announced a $100-million Racial Equity and Justice Initiative to help combat institutional racism worldwide after the 2020 murder of George Floyd.
apple_inc.: The general downturn is reportedly caused by the slowing global economy and supply chain disruptions in China.
apple_inc.: Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the United States in 2008, and in the world from 2008 to 2012.
apple_inc.: In its fiscal year ending in September 2011, Apple reported a total of $108 billion in annual revenues—a significant increase from its 2010 revenues of $65 billion—and nearly $82 billion in cash reserves.
apple_inc.: On August 20, 2012, Apple's rising stock price increased the company's market capitalization to a then-record $624 billion.
apple_inc.: The company pivoted its strategy and, in October 1990, introduced three lower-cost models: the Macintosh Classic, the Macintosh LC, and the Macintosh IIsi, all of which generated significant sales due to pent-up demand.
apple_inc.: This is Apple's second consecutive quarter of sales decline.
apple_inc.: The company lost its dominant position in the desktop publishing market and estranged many of its original consumer customer base, who could no longer afford Apple products.
apple_inc.: To address this, management introduced several new brands, selling largely identical machines at different price points, for different markets: the high-end Quadra series, the mid-range Centris series, and the consumer-marketed Performa series.
apple_inc.: The iPad lineup consists of several base iPad models, and the smaller iPad Mini, upgraded iPad Air, and high-end iPad Pro.
apple_inc.: Jobs stated in the biography Steve Jobs that he wanted to reinvent the textbook industry and education.
apple_inc.: In July 2008, Apple launched the App Store to sell third-party applications for the iPhone and iPod Touch.
apple_inc.: Half is philanthropic grants and half is centered on equity.
apple_inc.: Around then, Apple also completed numerous acquisitions to create a portfolio of digital media production software for both professionals and consumers.
apple_inc.: This would be the last product launch Jobs would attend before his death.
apple_inc.: Apple released a special page in its App Store, Apps for Earth.
