archipelago: The largest archipelago country in the world is Indonesia, whose territory comprises most of the Indonesian Archipelago.
archipelago: The Hawaiian Islands and Galapagos Islands in the Pacific, and Mascarene Islands in the south Indian Ocean are examples.
archipelago: Continental islands are islands that were once part of a continent and still sit on the continental shelf, which is the edge of a continent that lies under the ocean.
archipelago: Examples of archipelagos include the Aegean Islands (the origin of the term archipelago), the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, the Stockholm Archipelago, the Lucayan (Bahamian) Archipelago, the Japanese archipelago, the Hawaiian Archipelago, and the Galapagos.
archipelago: Cambridge University Press.
archipelago: Palm Islands and The World Islands in Dubai were or are being created for leisure and tourism purposes.
archipelago: "Archipelago" .
archipelago: 30 Most Incredible Island Archipelagos
archipelago: The Florida Keys are one example.
archipelago: Marker Wadden in the Netherlands is being built as a conservation area for birds and other wildlife.
archipelago: There are approximately 40,000 islands, most being uninhabited.
archipelago: The islands of the Inside Passage off the coast of British Columbia and the Canadian Arctic Archipelago are examples.
archipelago: An archipelago may be in an ocean, a sea, or a smaller body of water.
archipelago: The largest archipelagic state in the world by area with more than 17,500 islands, and by population of around 284 million people, is Indonesia.
archipelago: The erudite paretymology, deriving the word from Ancient Greek ἄρχι- (arkhi-, "chief") and πέλαγος (pélagos, "sea"), proposed by Buondelmonti, can still be found.
archipelago: Usage later shifted to refer to the Aegean Islands (since the sea has a large number of islands).
archipelago: List of landforms
List of archipelagos by number of islands
List of archipelagos
Archipelagic state
List of islands
Aquapelago
archipelago: The Farallon Islands off the coast of California are examples of continental fragment islands.
archipelago: An archipelago (  AR-kə-PEL-ə-goh), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster, or collection of islands.
archipelago: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
archipelago: The fragments may also be formed by moving glaciers which cut out land, which then fills with water.
archipelago: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
archipelago: Depending on their geological origin, islands forming archipelagos can be referred to as oceanic islands, continental fragments, or continental islands.
archipelago: For example, Scotland has more than 700 islands surrounding its mainland, which form an archipelago.
