argentina: Italian and other European immigrants influenced Lunfardo—the regional slang—permeating the vernacular vocabulary of other Latin American countries as well.
argentina: He is the first Pope born outside of Europe since the election of Pope Gregory III, who was Syrian, in 741.
argentina: The country thereafter enjoyed relative peace and stability, with several subsequent waves of European immigration, mainly of Italians and Spaniards, influencing its culture and demography.
argentina: In the last decades the role of the private sector has grown across all educational stages.
argentina: During the Rawson dictatorship a relatively unknown military colonel named Juan Perón was named head of the Labour Department.
argentina: It has a "very high" rating on the Human Development Index and ranks 66th by nominal GDP per capita, with a considerable internal market size and a growing share of the high-tech sector.
argentina: In 2008, the Argentine government estimated that 750,000 inhabitants lack official documents and has launched a programme to encourage illegal immigrants to declare their status in return for two-year residence visas—so far over 670,000 applications have been processed under the programme.
argentina: They have also won 16 Copas América, 7 Pan American Gold Medals and many other trophies.
argentina: In wine, Argentina is usually among the ten largest producers in the world.
argentina: Seven other provinces have over one million people each: Mendoza, Tucumán, Entre Ríos, Salta, Chaco, Corrientes and Misiones.
argentina: The Zonda, a hot dry wind, affects Cuyo and the central Pampas.
argentina: The most popular sport is football.
argentina: Garay went further south to re-found Buenos Aires in 1580.
argentina: In 2002, there were 260 AM and 1150 FM registered radio stations in Argentina.
argentina: ISBN 978-1-935049-19-7.
argentina: The newly chosen head of government, Alejandro Agustín Lanusse, seeking to ease the growing political pressure, allowed Héctor José Cámpora to become the Peronist candidate instead of Perón.
argentina: The western pampas receive less rainfall, this dry pampa is a plain of short grasses or steppe.
argentina: The Argentine state guarantees universal, secular and free-of-charge public education for all levels.
argentina: Argentina had a 2018 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 7.21/10, ranking it 47th globally out of 172 countries.
argentina: Argentina's per capita income was 70% higher than Italy's, 90% higher than Spain's, 180% higher than Japan's and 400% higher than Brazil's.
argentina: In 2020, naturally regenerating forest covered 27,137,000 hectares (ha) and planted forest covered 1,436,000 hectares (ha).
argentina: These figures appear to have changed quite significantly in recent years: in 2017, Catholics were 66% of the population, indicating a drop of 10.5% in nine years, and the nonreligious in the country standing at 21% of the population, indicating an almost doubling over the same period.
argentina: The other big influence is the gauchos and their traditional country lifestyle of self-reliance.
argentina: During his regime he faced a French blockade (1838–1840), the War of the Confederation (1836–1839), and an Anglo-French blockade (1845–1850), but remained undefeated and prevented further loss of national territory.
argentina: As the new president of the Confederation, Urquiza enacted the liberal and federal 1853 Constitution.
argentina: At the provincial level it is coordinated by the respective internal security ministries and enforced by local police agencies.
argentina: Argentine rock developed as a distinct musical style in the mid-1960s, when Buenos Aires and Rosario became cradles of aspiring musicians.
argentina: The system has been in decline since the 1940s: regularly running up large budgetary deficits.
argentina: The worsening economic crisis and hyperinflation reduced his popular support and the Peronist Carlos Menem won the 1989 election.
argentina: Boulder, CO: FirstForumPress.
argentina: For the year 2015, 0% of the forest area was reported to be under public ownership, 4% private ownership and 96% with ownership listed as other or unknown.
argentina: The first conquest consisted of a series of military incursions into the Pampa and Patagonian territories dominated by the indigenous peoples, distributing them among the members of the Sociedad Rural Argentina, financiers of the expeditions.
argentina: It started in 1896.
argentina: There are also dual carriageways leaving from Mendoza towards the capital, and between Córdoba and Santa Fé, among other locations.
argentina: In 1860 a presidential decree settled the country's name as "Argentine Republic", and that year's constitutional amendment ruled all the names since 1810 as legally valid.
argentina: Chosen from 20 potential sites and one of only three such ESA installations in the world, the new antenna will create a triangulation which will allow the ESA to ensure mission coverage around the clock.
argentina: Maddison, Angus (1995).
argentina: Argentines show high individualisation and deinstitutionalisation of religious beliefs.
argentina: In 2007, an Argentine contingent including helicopters, boats and water purification plants was sent to help Bolivia against their worst floods in decades.
argentina: Some of the largest sea ports are La Plata–Ensenada, Bahía Blanca, Mar del Plata, Quequén–Necochea, Comodoro Rivadavia, Puerto Deseado, Puerto Madryn, Ushuaia and San Antonio Oeste.
argentina: The National Parks of Argentina make up a network of 35 national parks in Argentina.
argentina: About 3 million people live in the city of Buenos Aires.
argentina: Argentina has its own satellite programme, nuclear power station designs (4th generation) and public nuclear energy company INVAP, which provides several countries with nuclear reactors.
argentina: High inflation—a weakness of the Argentine economy for decades—has become a trouble once again, recently peaking at 220% in 2024.
argentina: According to International IDEA's Global State of Democracy (GSoD) Indices and Democracy Tracker, Argentina performs in the mid-range on overall democratic measures, with particular strengths in freedom of religion, inclusive suffrage, and civic engagement.
argentina: The lowest point is Laguna del Carbón in the San Julián Great Depression Santa Cruz province (−105 m (−344 ft) below sea level, also the lowest point in the Southern and Western Hemispheres, and the seventh lowest point on Earth).
argentina: The modern country has its roots in Spanish colonisation of the region during the 16th century.
argentina: Buenos Aires has historically been the most important port.
argentina: The ideas of the Age of Enlightenment and the example of the first Atlantic Revolutions generated criticism of the absolutist monarchy that ruled the country.
argentina: The population is unequally distributed: about 60% live in the Pampas region (21% of the total area), including 15 million people in Buenos Aires province.
argentina: After his death, Isabel Perón, his wife and vice president, succeeded him in office.
argentina: Perón survived the attack, but a few months later, during the Liberating Revolution coup, he was deposed and went into exile in Spain.
argentina: In Argentina forest cover is around 10% of the total land area, equivalent to 28,573,000 hectares (ha) of forest in 2020, down from 35,204,000 hectares (ha) in 1990.
argentina: It is also a founding member of the Mercosur block, having Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela as partners.
argentina: Some provinces have bicameral legislatures, while others have unicameral ones.
argentina: Fernández and vice president Cristina Kirchner took office in December 2019, just months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Argentina and among accusations of corruption, bribery and misuse of public funds during Néstor and Cristina Kirchner's presidencies.
argentina: He was finally arrested in 1819 by Chilean patriots.
argentina: Its coastal border over the Río de la Plata and South Atlantic Ocean is 5,117 km (3,180 mi) long.
argentina: Juan Maldacena, an Argentine-American scientist, is a leading figure in string theory.
argentina: Since 2009 the secondary men's national team known as the 'Jaguares' has competed against the US, Canada, and Uruguay first teams in the Americas Rugby Championship, which Los Jaguares have won six out of eight times it has taken place.
argentina: The increase in precipitation has led to more variability in precipitation from year to year in the northern parts of the country, with a higher risk of prolonged droughts, disfavouring agriculture in these regions.
argentina: Maddison, Angus (2001).
argentina: Along with Brazil, Germany and France, the men's national team is the only one to have won each of the World Cup (in 1978, 1986 and 2022), Confederations Cup, and the Olympic gold.
argentina: As of 2017, the men's national team, known as 'Los Pumas' has competed at the Rugby World Cup each time it has been held, achieving their highest-ever result in 2007 when they came third.
argentina: The second administration of Yrigoyen faced an economic crisis, precipitated by the Great Depression.
argentina: However, in recent years the system has experienced a greater degree of investment from the state, in both commuter rail lines and long-distance lines, renewing rolling stock and infrastructure.
argentina: In the Executive branch, the President is the commander-in-chief of the military, can veto legislative bills before they become law—subject to Congressional override—and appoints the members of the Cabinet and other officers, who administer and enforce federal laws and policies.
argentina: In 2008, Argentines were 76.5% Catholic, 11.3% Agnostics and Atheists, 9% Evangelical Protestants, 1.2% Jehovah's Witnesses, and 0.9% Mormons, while 1.2% followed other religions, including Islam, Judaism and Buddhism.
argentina: In 1969, popular discontent led to two massive protests: the Cordobazo and the Rosariazo.
argentina: Basketball is a very popular sport.
argentina: The economy began to decline in 1950 due in part to government expenditures and the protectionist economic policies.
argentina: Individual cases of state-sponsored terrorism against Peronism and the left can be traced back even further to the Bombing of Plaza de Mayo in 1955.
argentina: Provinces hold all the power that they chose not to delegate to the federal government; they must be representative republics and must not contradict the Constitution.
argentina: Argentina surrendered on 14 June and its forces were taken home.
argentina: Owing to the extensive Argentine geography, Spanish has a strong variation among regions, although the prevalent dialect is Rioplatense, primarily spoken in the Pampean and Patagonian regions and accented similarly to the Neapolitan language.
argentina: He expelled Montoneros from the party and they became once again a clandestine organisation.
argentina: Argentina had 5.57 million visitors in 2013, the top international tourist destination in South America, and the second in Latin America after Mexico.
argentina: The World Factbook.
argentina: Milei's presidency began on 10 December 2023.
argentina: Overwhelmed by political violence, Cámpora resigned and Perón won the following September 1973 election with his third wife Isabel as vice-president.
argentina: The Argentine film industry has historically been one of the three most developed in Latin American cinema, along with those produced in Mexico and Brazil.
argentina: Despite increased renewable energy production and subsidies during her tenure, the overall economy had been sluggish since 2011.
argentina: The population in 2024 is estimated to have increased to 47,067,441 inhabitants.
argentina: Since 2010, the crude net migration rate has ranged from below zero to up to four immigrants per 1,000 inhabitants per year.
argentina: Argentina is also a founding member of the United Nations, World Bank, World Trade Organization, Mercosur, Community of Latin American and Caribbean States and the Organization of Ibero-American States.
argentina: Other distinguished racers were Oscar Alfredo Gálvez, Juan Gálvez, José Froilán González and Carlos Reutemann.
argentina: The election victory of the centre-right coalition, Juntos por el Cambio (Together for Change) limited Fernández' power during his final two years in office.
argentina: The majority of Argentines descend from multiple European ethnic groups, primarily of Italian and Spanish descent, with over 25 million Argentines, almost 60% of the population, having some partial Italian origins.
argentina: Its secondary missions include committing to multinational operations within the framework of the United Nations, participating in internal support missions, assisting friendly countries, and establishing a sub-regional defence system.
argentina: ISBN 978-92-64-14549-8.
argentina: Bernardo Houssay, the first Latin American recipient, discovered the role of pituitary hormones in regulating glucose in animals, and shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1947.
argentina: The French-Argentine Hippolyte Bouchard then brought his fleet to wage war against Spain overseas and attacked Spanish California, Spanish Peru and Spanish Philippines.
argentina: Luis Leloir discovered how organisms store energy converting glucose into glycogen and the compounds which are fundamental in metabolising carbohydrates, receiving the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1970.
argentina: The Legislative branch consists of the bicameral Congress, made up of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies.
argentina: Embalse, finished in 1983, used 30% and the 2011 Atucha II reactor used 40%.
argentina: In 2010 the Armed Forces were also involved in Haiti and Chile humanitarian responses after their respective earthquakes.
argentina: He was 78 years old.
argentina: At the federal level it is coordinated by the Interior, Security and Justice ministries, and monitored by Congress.
argentina: Tomás Maldonado was one of the main theorists of the Ulm Model of design education, still highly influential globally.
argentina: In October 2025, President Javier Milei's party, La Libertad Avanza,  won a landslide victory in midterm elections, making it easier for Milei to push ahead with his programme of radical spending cuts and free-market reforms.
argentina: A major non-NATO ally of the United States, Argentina is a developing country with the second-highest HDI (human development index) in Latin America after Chile.
argentina: A national Argentine folk style emerged in the 1930s from dozens of regional musical genres and went on to influence the entirety of Latin American music.
argentina: At the end of 2021 Argentina was the 21st country in the world in terms of installed hydroelectric power (11.3 GW), the 26th country in the world in terms of installed wind energy (3.2 GW) and the 43rd country in the world in terms of installed solar energy (1.0 GW).
argentina: José López Rega organised the Argentine Anticommunist Alliance (AAA) to fight against them and the People's Revolutionary Army (ERP).
argentina: Beginning a process from which Argentina was to emerge as successor state to the Viceroyalty, the 1810 May Revolution replaced the viceroy Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros with the First Junta, a new government in Buenos Aires made up from locals.
argentina: A prominent Latin American and Southern Cone regional power, Argentina cofounded OEI and CELAC.
argentina: Seats are apportioned among the provinces by population every tenth year.
argentina: The wind potential of the Patagonia region is considered gigantic, with estimates that the area could provide enough electricity to sustain the consumption of a country like Brazil alone.
argentina: In 2010, 38.5% of people over age 20 had completed secondary school.
argentina: Aeroparque, in the city of Buenos Aires, is the most important domestic airport.
argentina: With a 6.5% production growth rate in 2011, the diversified manufacturing sector rests on a steadily growing network of industrial parks, 314 in 2013.
argentina: With 64.3 inhabitants per square kilometre (167/sq mi), Tucumán is the only Argentine province more densely populated than the world average.
argentina: Argentina, officially the Argentine Republic, is a country in the Southern Cone of South America.
argentina: In the 20th century, Argentina experienced significant political turmoil and democratic reversals.
argentina: Argentina was first associated with the silver mountains legend, widespread among the first European explorers of the La Plata Basin.
argentina: Nevertheless, this road infrastructure is still inadequate and cannot handle the sharply growing demand caused by deterioration of the railway system.
argentina: The metropolitan areas of Córdoba and Rosario have around 1.3 million inhabitants each.
argentina: The National Autonomist Party dominated national politics in the period called the Conservative Republic, from 1880 until the 1916 elections.
argentina: The 2022 census [INDEC] counted 46,044,703 inhabitants, up from 40,117,096 in 2010.
argentina: Reyes, who was never formally charged, was tortured in prison for five years and only released after the regime's downfall in 1955.
argentina: Argentina's defence has historically been one of the best equipped in the region, even managing its own weapon research facilities, shipyards, ordnance, tank and plane factories.
argentina: By the end of 1976, the Montoneros had lost nearly 2,000 members and by 1977, the ERP was completely subdued.
argentina: Under Macri's administration, economic recovery remained elusive with GDP shrinking 3.4%, inflation totalling 240%, billions of US dollars issued in sovereign debt, and mass poverty increasing by the end of his term.
argentina: The description of the region by the word Argentina has been found on a Venetian map in 1536.
argentina: César Milstein did extensive research in antibodies, sharing the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1984.
argentina: Major wind currents include the cool Pampero Winds blowing on the flat plains of Patagonia and the Pampas; following the cold front, warm currents blow from the north in middle and late winter, creating mild conditions.
argentina: ISBN 978-1-4381-0481-2.
argentina: The presidential elections were won by Perón's surrogate candidate, Hector Cámpora, a left-wing Peronist, who took office on 25 May 1973.
argentina: In the first clashes of the Independence War the Junta crushed a royalist counter-revolution in Córdoba, but failed to overcome those of the Banda Oriental, Upper Peru and Paraguay, which later became independent states.
argentina: Argentina is in the midst of a demographic transition to an older and slower-growing population.
argentina: In 2010, the literacy rate was 98.07%.
argentina: Another significant site is the Cueva de las Manos (Cave of the Hands), also located in Santa Cruz.
argentina: Argentina stayed neutral during World War I.
argentina: By the early 1930s, it was Latin America's leading film producer, a place it kept until the early 1950s.
argentina: Jorge Luis Borges, Argentina's most acclaimed writer and one of the foremost figures in the history of literature, found new ways of looking at the modern world in metaphor and philosophical debate and his influence has extended to authors all over the globe.
argentina: The opposing guerrillas' victims numbered nearly 500–540 military and police officials and up to 230 civilians.
argentina: The result has been a steady erosion of Argentine military capabilities, with some arguing that Argentina had, by the end of the 2010s, ceased to be a capable military power.
argentina: Argentina is a federal state subdivided into twenty-three provinces, and one autonomous city, which is the federal capital and largest city of the nation, Buenos Aires.
argentina: Since 2002 the country has emphasised its key role in Latin American integration, and the block—which has some supranational legislative functions—is its first international priority.
argentina: The world's first animated feature films were made and released in Argentina, by cartoonist Quirino Cristiani, in 1917 and 1918.
argentina: This overlaps claims by Chile and the United Kingdom, though all such claims fall under the provisions of the 1961 Antarctic Treaty, of which Argentina is a founding signatory and permanent consulting member, with the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat being based in Buenos Aires.
argentina: Argentine composers Luis Enrique Bacalov and Gustavo Santaolalla have been honoured with Academy Awards for Best Original Score, and Armando Bó and Nicolás Giacobone shared in the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay for 2014.
argentina: Suffrage is universal, equal, secret and mandatory.
argentina: In 1974, Argentina was the first country in Latin America to put a commercial nuclear power plant online, Atucha I.
argentina: In January 2024, Argentina's poverty rate reached 57.4%, the highest poverty rate in the country since 2004.
argentina: In Italian, the adjective or the proper noun is often used in an autonomous way as a substantive and replaces it and it is said l'Argentina.
argentina: The surface soils of the pampa are a deep black colour, primarily mollisols, known commonly as humus.
argentina: Argentina has since long been one of the top five wine-producing countries in the world.
argentina: Following the death of President Juan Perón in 1974, his widow and vice president, Isabel Perón, ascended to the presidency, before being overthrown in the final coup in 1976.
argentina: In 2021, Argentina had about 2,800 km (1,740 mi) of dual carriageways, most leaving the capital Buenos Aires, linking it with cities such as Rosario and Córdoba, Santa Fe, Mar del Plata and Paso de los Libres (bordering Brazil).
argentina: The annual inflation rate is expected to be below 30% in 2025.
argentina: Argentina is a traditional meat exporter, having been, in 2019, the 4th world producer of beef, with a production of 3 million tons (only behind US, Brazil and China), the 4th world producer of honey, and the 10th world producer of wool, in addition to other relevant productions.
argentina: Most of the victims were casualties of state terrorism.
argentina: Argentina is highly urbanised, with 92% of its population living in cities: the ten largest metropolitan areas account for half of the population.
argentina: Christianity is the largest religion in Argentina.
argentina: Centralists and Federalists resumed the civil war; the latter prevailed and formed the Argentine Confederation in 1831, led by Juan Manuel de Rosas.
argentina: The average annual precipitation ranges from 150 millimetres (6 in) in the driest parts of Patagonia to over 2,000 millimetres (79 in) in the westernmost parts of Patagonia and the northeastern parts of the country.
argentina: He took the name "Francis", and he became the first Pope from either the Americas or from the Southern Hemisphere.
argentina: ISBN 978-92-64-18654-5.
argentina: At a later date, the Argentine sign of Inca origin, the Sun of May was adopted as a symbol by the Filipinos in the Philippine Revolution against Spain.
argentina: He was finally released under mounting pressure from both his base and several allied unions.
argentina: By 1908, it had surpassed Denmark, Canada and the Netherlands to reach 7th place—behind Switzerland, New Zealand, Australia, the United States, the United Kingdom and Belgium.
argentina: 20% of Argentines are irreligious, 9% are Protestants, and 8% follow another religion or didn't answer.
argentina: In 1912, President Roque Sáenz Peña enacted universal and secret male suffrage, which allowed Hipólito Yrigoyen, leader of the Radical Civic Union (or UCR), to win the 1916 election.
argentina: Congress appointed Eduardo Duhalde as acting president, who revoked the fixed exchange rate established by Menem, causing many working- and middle-class Argentines to lose a significant portion of their savings.
argentina: Further colonisation efforts came from Paraguay—establishing the Governorate of the Río de la Plata—Peru and Chile.
argentina: After that coup, four more followed in 1943, 1955, 1962, and 1966.
argentina: In 2012, there were about 11,000 km (6,835 mi) of waterways, mostly comprising the La Plata, Paraná, Paraguay and Uruguay rivers, with Buenos Aires, Zárate, Campana, Rosario, San Lorenzo, Santa Fe, Barranqueras and San Nicolas de los Arroyos as the main fluvial ports.
argentina: However, real military expenditures declined steadily after the defeat in the Falklands/Malvinas War and the defence budget in 2011 was only about 0.74% of GDP, a historical minimum, below the Latin American average.
argentina: Infant deaths have fallen from 19% of all deaths in 1953 to 3% in 2005.
argentina: On the day Perón returned to Argentina, the clash between Peronist internal factions—right-wing union leaders and left-wing youth from the Montoneros—resulted in the Ezeiza Massacre.
argentina: Argentina disputes sovereignty over the British possessions of the Falkland Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
argentina: Perón quickly managed to climb the political ladder, being named defence minister in 1944.
argentina: The Judicial is independent of the Executive and the Legislative.
argentina: On 26 May 2003, he was sworn in.
argentina: One of Cámpora's first presidential actions was to grant amnesty to members of organisations that had carried out political assassinations and terrorist attacks, and to those who had been tried and sentenced to prison by judges.
argentina: The Greater Buenos Aires metropolitan area has around 13 million, making it one of the largest urban areas in the world.
argentina: As of 2014 ten provinces have just five deputies while the Buenos Aires Province, being the most populous one, has 70.
argentina: Despite these unique achievements, the country was slow to meet its original goals of industrialisation: after the steep development of capital-intensive local industries in the 1920s, a significant part of the manufacturing sector remained labour-intensive in the 1930s.
argentina: Its cities are largely characterised by both the prevalence of people of European descent, and of conscious imitation of American and European styles in fashion, architecture and design.
argentina: However, the interior provinces soon rose against him, forced his resignation and discarded the constitution.
argentina: Argentina was the first country in Latin America to design and build a research reactor with homegrown technology, the RA-1 Enrico Fermi.
argentina: He secured the allegiance of escaped Filipinos in San Blas who defected from the Spanish to join the Argentine navy, due to common Argentine and Philippine grievances against Spanish colonisation.
argentina: The United Kingdom dispatched a task force to regain possession.
argentina: Space research has become increasingly active in Argentina.
argentina: Consequently, there is a wide variety of biomes in the country, including Subtropical rainforests, semi-arid and arid regions, temperate plains in the Pampas, and cold subantarctic in the south.
argentina: Its economy is the second-largest in South America, and it is a member of G-15 and G20.
argentina: A 2010 study conducted on 218 individuals by the Argentine geneticist Daniel Corach established that the average genetic ancestry of Argentines is 79% European (mainly Italian and Spanish), 18% indigenous and 4.3% African.
argentina: The Inca Empire expanded to the northwest of the country in pre-Columbian times.
argentina: The terrorist guerrilla organisation Montoneros kidnapped and executed Aramburu.
argentina: The 1994 Constitutional Amendment allowed Menem to be elected for a second term.
argentina: Guillermo Vilas is the greatest Latin American player of the Open Era, while Gabriela Sabatini is the most accomplished Argentine female player of all time—having reached number 3 in the WTA ranking, are both inductees into the International Tennis Hall of Fame.
argentina: The November 2023 election run-off ended in a win for libertarian outsider Javier Milei with 55.7% of the vote against 44.4% to ruling coalition candidate Sergio Massa.
argentina: 63.6% of the tested group had at least one ancestor who was Indigenous.
argentina: The Latin American Mammalogy Network (Red Latinoamericana de Mastozoología, or RELAM) was created during the 2009 IMC Congress, cofounded by SAREM and the Asociación Boliviana de Investigadores en Mamíferos (Bolivian Association of Mammal Researchers, ABIMA).
argentina: Cámpora's months-long tenure in government was beset by political and social unrest.
argentina: In Spanish and Portuguese, the words for 'silver' are respectively plata and prata and '(made) of silver' is plateado and prateado, although argento for 'silver' and argentado for 'covered in silver' exist in Spanish.
argentina: Mean annual temperatures range from 5 °C (41 °F) in the far south to 25 °C (77 °F) in the north.
argentina: During her presidency, a military junta, along with the Peronists' far-right fascist faction, once again became the de facto head of state.
argentina: Buenos Aires is one of the great theatre capitals of the world, with a scene of international caliber centred on Corrientes Avenue, "the street that never sleeps", sometimes referred to as the Broadway of Buenos Aires.
argentina: A minority are Muslims.
argentina: The Administración de Parques Nacionales (National Parks Administration) is the agency that preserves and manages these national parks along with Natural monuments and National Reserves within the country.
argentina: The Proceso shut down Congress, removed the judges on the Supreme Court, banned political parties and unions, and resorted to employing the forced disappearance of suspected guerrilla members including individuals suspected of being associated with the left-wing.
argentina: The Congress of Tucumán finally decided to reject the Inca plan, creating instead a republican, centralist state.
argentina: Argentina ranks third in South America in total population, fourth in Latin America and 33rd globally.
argentina: With the economy beginning to decline in 1995, and with increasing unemployment and recession, the UCR, led by Fernando de la Rúa, returned to the presidency in the 1999 elections.
argentina: In 2015, the median age was 31.9 years and life expectancy at birth was 77.14 years.
argentina: Since the 1970s, immigration has mostly been coming from Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru, with smaller numbers from the Dominican Republic, Ecuador and Romania.
argentina: By 1991, it was transporting 1,400 times less goods than it did in 1973.
argentina: The government of Argentina defaulted in May 2020 by failing to pay a $500 million bill by its due date to its creditors.
argentina: In 1826 Buenos Aires enacted another centralist constitution, with Bernardino Rivadavia being appointed as the first president of the country.
argentina: After a series of heart attacks and signs of pneumonia in 1974, Perón's health deteriorated quickly.
argentina: It has also conquered 13 South American Championships, and many other tournaments.
argentina: Argentina is home to a notable Asian population, the majority of whom are descended from either West Asians, namely Lebanese and Syrians, or East Asians, such as the Chinese, Koreans, and the Japanese.
argentina: Macri was the first democratically elected non-peronist president since 1916 that managed to complete his term in office without being overthrown.
argentina: Desde el año 1808 hasta el reconocimiento de la independencia de ese extenso continente (in Spanish).
argentina: Buenos Aires: Ediciones Depalma.
argentina: Pato is the national sport, an ancient horseback game locally originated in the early 1600s and predecessor of horseball.
argentina: Healthcare is provided through a combination of employer and labour union-sponsored plans (Obras Sociales), government insurance plans, public hospitals and clinics and through private health insurance plans.
argentina: The massive wave of European immigration they promoted—second only to the United States'—led to a near-reinvention of Argentine society and economy that by 1908 had placed the country as the seventh wealthiest developed nation in the world.
argentina: Approximately 43% of the Argentina's population lived below the poverty line in 2023.
argentina: The parks cover a very varied set of terrains and biotopes, from Baritú National Park on the northern border with Bolivia to Tierra del Fuego National Park in the far south of the continent.
argentina: In 1819 Buenos Aires enacted a centralist constitution that was soon abrogated by federalists.
argentina: He was followed by Domingo Faustino Sarmiento and Nicolás Avellaneda; these three presidencies set up the basis of the modern Argentine State.
argentina: During Kirchner's presidency she promoted foreign relations with countries such as Venezuela, Iran, and Cuba, whilst US and UK relations were increasingly strained.
argentina: Modern Argentine culture has been largely influenced by Italian, Spanish and other European immigration from France, Russia, United Kingdom, among others.
argentina: Argentina's foreign policy: domestic politics and democracy promotion in the Americas.
argentina: The conquest of Chaco lasted up to the end of the century, since its full ownership of the national economic system only took place when the mere extraction of wood and tannin was replaced by the production of cotton.
argentina: The Interior Security System is jointly administered by the federal and subscribing provincial governments.
argentina: Some examples of those who supported this proposal were Manuel Belgrano, José de San Martín and Martín Miguel de Güemes.
argentina: Argentina was ranked 76th in the Global Innovation Index in 2024, and was ranked 77th in 2025.
argentina: Reyes was soon arrested on charges of terrorism, though the allegations were never substantiated.
argentina: He was a friend and collaborator of Adolfo Bioy Casares, who wrote one of the most praised science fiction novels, The Invention of Morel.
argentina: The provinces of Córdoba and Santa Fe, and the city of Buenos Aires have 3 million each.
argentina: An elementary or lower school mandatory level lasting 6 or 7 years.
argentina: The Congress makes federal law, declares war, approves treaties and has the power of the purse and of impeachment, by which it can remove sitting members of the government.
argentina: The City of Buenos Aires is divided into communes.
argentina: Although "Argentina" was already in common usage by the 18th century, the country was formally named "Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata" by the Spanish Empire, and "United Provinces of the Río de la Plata" after independence.
argentina: Ferro, Carlos A.
argentina: ISBN 978-950-14-0610-8.
argentina: Isabel Perón served as President of Argentina from 1974 until 1976, when she was ousted by the military.
argentina: Moreover, according to the V-Dem Democracy indices, Argentina in 2023 was the second most electoral democratic country in Latin America.
argentina: The climate of Argentina is changing with regards to precipitation patterns and temperatures.
argentina: In 2010, 7.1% of people over age 20 had graduated from university.
argentina: Attitudes towards LGBT people are generally positive within Argentina.
argentina: In 2015, fossilised bones of a large, extinct armoured mammal called Neosclerocalyptus were unearthed near Buenos Aires.
argentina: Over 600 social conflicts, strikes, and factory occupations took place within a single month.
argentina: The men's national team is the only one in the FIBA Americas zone that has won the quintuplet crown: World Championship, Olympic Gold Medal, Diamond Ball, Americas Championship, and Pan American Gold Medal.
argentina: Further south, the Piedra Museo site in Santa Cruz Province has yielded human remains and artifacts dating back approximately 11,000 years.
argentina: The Navy took advantage of Perón's withering political power, and bombed the Plaza de Mayo in 1955.
argentina: As a middle emerging economy and one of the world's top developing nations, it is a member of the G-20 major economies.
argentina: Perón won the election with his wife Isabel Perón as vice president.
argentina: The total number of Arab Argentines (most of whom are of Lebanese or Syrian origin) is estimated to be 1.3 to 3.5 million.
argentina: For instance, the meat-packers union leader, Cipriano Reyes, organised strikes in protest against the government after elected labour movement officials were forcefully replaced by Peronist puppets from the Peronist Party.
argentina: Some of the major rivers are the Paraná, Uruguay—which join to form the Río de la Plata, Paraguay, Salado, Negro, Santa Cruz, Pilcomayo, Bermejo and Colorado.
argentina: Argentina at the Latin American Network Information Center
Argentina at the University Libraries – University of Colorado Boulder
Key Development Forecasts for Argentina at International Futures
 Geographic data related to Argentina at OpenStreetMap
 Wikimedia Atlas of Argentina
argentina: General José de San Martín joined Bernardo O'Higgins, and they led a combined army across the Andes and secured the independence of Chile; then it was sent by O'Higgins orders to the Spanish stronghold of Lima and proclaimed the independence of Peru.
argentina: Argentina has won seventeen Goya Awards for Best Spanish Language Foreign Film, being by far the most awarded country in Latin America with twenty-four nominations.
argentina: "Argentina" .
argentina: A dance and a musical genre popular at present is Cachengue, a subgenre of Argentine cumbia and reggaeton spreading in popularity in nearby countries such as Uruguay, Chile, Paraguay, and Bolivia.
argentina: He did not run for reelection, promoting instead the candidacy of his wife, senator Cristina Kirchner who won the 2007 and 2011 elections.
argentina: In English, the name Argentina comes from the Spanish language; however, the naming itself is not Spanish, but Italian.
argentina: Europeans first arrived in the region with the 1502 voyage of Amerigo Vespucci.
argentina: San Luis was established in 1596.
argentina: Starting with Julio Argentino Roca in 1880, ten consecutive federal governments emphasised liberal economic policies.
argentina: In 2013, there were 161 airports with paved runways out of more than a thousand.
argentina: Argentine-built satellites include LUSAT-1 (1990), Víctor-1 (1996), PEHUENSAT-1 (2007), and those developed by CONAE, the Argentine space agency, of the SAC series.
argentina: In 2020, more than 60% of Argentina's electricity came from non-renewable sources such as natural gas, oil and coal.
argentina: Perón tried to bring most trade and labour unions under his thumb, regularly resorting to violence when needed.
argentina: René Favaloro developed the techniques and performed the world's first coronary bypass surgery.
argentina: Short stories such as Ficciones and The Aleph are among his most famous works.
argentina: Doctor William Z.
argentina: The lower courts' judges are proposed by the Council of Magistracy (a secretariat composed of representatives of judges, lawyers, researchers, the Executive and the Legislative), and appointed by the president on Senate approval.
argentina: In 1943 a military coup d'état led by General Arturo Rawson toppled the constitutional government of Ramón Castillo.
argentina: Argentina is one of the most biodiverse countries in the world hosting one of the greatest ecosystem varieties in the world: 15 continental zones, 2 marine zones, and the Antarctic region are all represented in its territory.
argentina: The facility will contribute to numerous ESA space probes, as well as CONAE's own, domestic research projects.
argentina: His trade restriction policies, however, angered the interior provinces and in 1852 Justo José de Urquiza, another powerful caudillo, beat him out of power.
argentina: Tennis has been quite popular among people of all ages.
argentina: He enacted social and economic reforms and extended assistance to small farms and businesses.
argentina: Since the 1990s the Up-River port region has become dominant: stretching along 67 km (42 mi) of the Paraná river shore in Santa Fe province, it includes 17 ports and in 2013 accounted for 50% of all exports.
argentina: Argentines have received three Nobel Prizes in the Sciences.
argentina: In April 2023, Fernández announced that he would not seek reelection in the next presidential election.
argentina: Historically, Argentina has had a strong showing within auto racing.
argentina: Foreign policy is handled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, International Trade and Worship, which answers to the President.
argentina: Argentina claims 965,597 km2 (372,819 sq mi) in Antarctica, where it has the world's oldest continuous state presence, since 1904.
argentina: Argentine films have achieved worldwide recognition: Argentina has won two Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film, for The Official Story (1985) and The Secret in Their Eyes (2009).
argentina: Argentina is a member of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance.
argentina: The public universities of Buenos Aires, Córdoba, La Plata, Rosario, and the National Technological University are some of the most important.
argentina: Argentina's democracy endured through the 2001–02 crisis and to the present day; it is regarded as more robust than both its pre-1983 predecessors and other democracies in Latin America.
argentina: Argentines usually refer to the country as a crisol de razas (crucible of races, or melting pot).
argentina: Perón's third term was marked by escalating conflict between left and right-wing factions within the Peronist party, as well as the return of armed terror guerrilla groups such as the Guevarist ERP, leftist Peronist Montoneros, and the state-backed far-right Triple A.
argentina: Some of the most important figures of Argentine independence made a proposal known as the Inca plan of 1816, which proposed that the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata (modern-day Argentina) should be a monarchy, led by a descendant of the Inca.
argentina: As a member of the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Argentina supports nuclear non-proliferation efforts and is committed to global nuclear security.
argentina: Argentine writer Ernesto Sabato has reflected on the nature of the culture of Argentina as follows:
argentina: Street riots in Buenos Aires followed the humiliating defeat and the military leadership stood down.
argentina: Argentina has the largest railway system in Latin America, with 36,966 km (22,970 mi) of operating lines in 2008, out of a network of almost 48,000 km (29,826 mi).
argentina: In general, Argentina has four main climate types: warm humid subtropical, moderate humid subtropical, arid, and cold, all determined by the expanse across latitude, range in altitude, and relief features.
argentina: Paris: OECD Publishing.
argentina: Uriburu ruled for two years; then Agustín Pedro Justo was elected in a fraudulent election and signed a controversial treaty with the United Kingdom.
argentina: Revenues from international tourists reached US$4.41 billion in 2013, down from US$4.89 billion in 2012.
argentina: Argentina stayed neutral during World War II, a decision that had full British support but was rejected by the United States after the attack on Pearl Harbor.
argentina: He nationalised strategic industries and services, improved wages and working conditions, paid the full external debt and claimed he achieved nearly full employment.
argentina: Indigenous American traditions have been absorbed into the general cultural milieu.
argentina: The Spanish navigators Juan Díaz de Solís and Sebastian Cabot visited the territory that is now Argentina in 1516 and 1526, respectively.
argentina: Cámpora won the March 1973 election, issued pardons for condemned guerrilla members, and then secured Perón's return from his exile in Spain.
argentina: Outline of Argentina
argentina: The "Dirty War" (Spanish: Guerra Sucia) was part of Operation Condor, which included the participation of other right-wing dictatorships in the Southern Cone.
argentina: Jose de San Martin's brother, Juan Fermín de San Martín, was already in the Philippines and drumming up revolutionary fervour prior to this.
argentina: Amidst the political turmoil, Senate leader José María Guido reacted swiftly and applied anti-power vacuum legislation, ascending to the presidency himself; elections were repealed and Peronism was prohibited once again.
argentina: The provinces and the capital have their own constitutions, but exist under a federal system.
argentina: Causes related to senility led to many of the rest.
argentina: Some of its interpreters, such as Atahualpa Yupanqui and Mercedes Sosa, achieved worldwide acclaim.
argentina: The following military junta persecuted and murdered thousands of political critics, activists, and leftists in the Dirty War, a period of state terrorism and civil unrest that lasted until the election of Raúl Alfonsín as president in 1983.
argentina: Argentina settled its long-standing debt default crisis in 2016 with the so-called vulture funds after the election of Mauricio Macri, allowing Argentina to enter capital markets for the first time in a decade.
argentina: The Supreme Court has seven members appointed by the President—subject to Senate approval—who serve for life.
argentina: In 2013, about 100 full-length motion pictures were being created annually.
argentina: Responsibility for educational supervision is organised at the federal and individual provincial states.
argentina: The 1820 Battle of Cepeda, fought between the Centralists and the Federalists, resulted in the end of the Supreme Director rule.
argentina: Argentina reigns undisputed in polo, having won more international championships than any other country and been seldom beaten since the 1930s.
argentina: Of the naturally regenerating forest 0% was reported to be primary forest (consisting of native tree species with no clearly visible indications of human activity) and around 7% of the forest area was found within protected areas.
argentina: Discoveries at this site include spearheads associated with extinct megafauna such as Mylodon and Hippidion, highlighting the advanced hunting practices of early inhabitants.
argentina: The original pampa had virtually no trees; some imported species such as the American sycamore or eucalyptus are present along roads or in towns and country estates (estancias).
argentina: The Modernist movement advanced into the 20th century including exponents such as Leopoldo Lugones and poet Alfonsina Storni; it was followed by Vanguardism, with Ricardo Güiraldes's Don Segundo Sombra as an important reference.
argentina: Tenor saxophonist Leandro "Gato" Barbieri and composer and big band conductor Lalo Schifrin are among the most internationally successful Argentine jazz musicians.
argentina: Francisco de Aguirre founded Santiago del Estero in 1553.
argentina: Perón managed to get reelected in 1951.
argentina: Argentina rose as the successor state of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, a Spanish overseas viceroyalty founded in 1776.
argentina: The government is regulated by a system of checks and balances defined by the Constitution of Argentina, the country's supreme legal document.
argentina: Following a transition that began in 1983, full-scale democracy in Argentina was reestablished.
argentina: Healthcare cooperatives number over 300 (of which 200 are related to labour unions) and provide healthcare for half the population; the national INSSJP (popularly known as PAMI) covers nearly all of the five million senior citizens.
argentina: The 1826 constitution included the first use of the name "Argentine Republic" in legal documents.
argentina: Annual inflation was expected to end 2024 closer to 100%.
argentina: Argentine research has led to treatments for heart diseases and several forms of cancer.
argentina: Historia de la Bandera Argentina (in Spanish).
argentina: The maximum north–south distance is 3,694 km (2,295 mi), while the maximum east–west one is 1,423 km (884 mi).
argentina: Income distribution, having improved since 2002, is classified as "medium", although it is still considerably unequal.
argentina: Fostered by a new public, compulsory, free and secular education system, literacy quickly increased from 22% to 65%, a level higher than most Latin American nations would reach even fifty years later.
argentina: Londres was founded in 1558; Mendoza, in 1561; San Juan, in 1562; San Miguel de Tucumán, in 1565.
argentina: Encyclopædia Britannica.
argentina: Luciana Aymar is recognised as the best female player in the history of the sport, being the only player to have received the FIH Player of the Year Award eight times.
argentina: Tango, a Rioplatense musical genre with European and African influences, is one of Argentina's international cultural symbols.
argentina: Between 1878 and 1884, the so-called Conquest of the Desert occurred, with the purpose of tripling the Argentine territory by means of the constant confrontations between natives and Criollos in the border, and the appropriation of the indigenous territories.
argentina: Being perceived as a political threat by rivals in the military and the conservative camp, he was forced to resign in 1945, and was arrested days later.
argentina: Argentina (masculine argentino) means in Italian '(made) of silver, silver coloured', derived from the Latin argentum for silver.
argentina: The Assembly of the Year XIII appointed Gervasio Antonio de Posadas as Argentina's first Supreme Director.
argentina: Overpowering Urquiza in the 1861 Battle of Pavón, Bartolomé Mitre secured Buenos Aires' predominance and was elected as the first president of the reunified country.
argentina: The major national ones include Clarín (centrist, Latin America's best-seller and the second most widely circulated in the Spanish-speaking world), La Nación (centre-right), Página/12 (leftist), La Voz del Interior (centre).
argentina: At least one-third of the candidates presented by the parties must be women.
argentina: In 2012 Argentina was elected again to a two-year non-permanent position on the United Nations Security Council and is participating in major peacekeeping operations in Haiti, Cyprus, Western Sahara and the Middle East.
argentina: On 10 December 2023, Javier Milei was sworn in as president.
argentina: The Chamber of Deputies represents the people and has 257 voting members elected to a four-year term.
argentina: As of early 2024, internet penetration in Argentina stood at 88.4% of the total population, and the ratio of cellular mobile connections to the total population was 135.3% (62.14 million active connections).
argentina: The seat of government is the city of Buenos Aires, as designated by Congress.
argentina: Well-integrated into Argentine agriculture, half of the industrial exports have rural origin.
argentina: Its population density of 15 persons per square kilometre of land area is well below the world average of 50 persons.
argentina: The country is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies of the world, and a founding member of the UN, WBG, WTO and OAS.
argentina: Furthermore, real GDP grew so fast that despite the huge immigration influx, per capita income between 1862 and 1920 went from 67% of developed country levels to 100%: In 1865, Argentina was already one of the top 25 nations by per capita income.
argentina: In 1930, Yrigoyen was ousted from power by the military led by José Félix Uriburu.
argentina: Central Intelligence Agency.
argentina: He took office on 10 December 2015 and inherited an economy with a high inflation rate and in a poor shape.
argentina: Argentina's 2010 birth rate of 2.3 children per woman was considerably below the high of 7.0 children born per woman in 1895, though still nearly twice as high as in Spain or Italy, which are culturally and demographically similar.
argentina: Perón was banned from running but the Peronist party was allowed to participate.
argentina: On 22 November 2015, after a tie in the first round of presidential elections on 25 October, centre-right coalition candidate Mauricio Macri won the first ballotage in Argentina's history, beating Front for Victory candidate Daniel Scioli and becoming president-elect.
argentina: Argentina is a federal constitutional republic and representative democracy.
argentina: In June 2009, CONAE secured an agreement with the European Space Agency for the installation of a 35-m diametre antenna and other mission support facilities at the Pierre Auger Observatory, the world's foremost cosmic ray observatory.
argentina: Argentina is considered a country of immigrants.
argentina: The new head of State, Pedro Eugenio Aramburu, proscribed Peronism and banned the party from any future elections.
argentina: Its waters are influenced by two major ocean currents: the warm Brazil Current and the cold Falklands Current.
argentina: In 2013, there were 47 national public universities across the country, and 46 private ones.
argentina: Argentina shares the bulk of the Southern Cone with Chile to the west, and is also bordered by Bolivia and Paraguay to the north, Brazil to the northeast, Uruguay and the South Atlantic Ocean to the east, and the Drake Passage to the south.
argentina: Arturo Frondizi from the UCR won the 1958 general election.
argentina: As of July 2023, more than 18,500 Russians have come to Argentina after the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022.
argentina: Other Argentine artists of worldwide fame include Adolfo Bellocq, whose lithographs have been influential since the 1920s, and Benito Quinquela Martín, the quintessential port painter, inspired by the immigrant-bound La Boca neighbourhood.
argentina: These rivers are discharged into the Argentine Sea, the shallow area of the Atlantic Ocean over the Patagonian Shelf, an unusually wide continental platform.
argentina: 27% came from hydropower, 7.3% from wind and solar energy and 4.4% from nuclear energy.
argentina: Argentina ranks 85th out of 180 countries in the Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perceptions Index, an improvement of 22 positions over its 2014 rankings.
argentina: In 1983, Argentina admitted having the capability of producing weapon-grade uranium, a major step needed to assemble nuclear weapons.
argentina: The proportion of people under 15 is 25.6%, a little below the world average of 28%, and the proportion of people 65 and older is relatively high at 10.8%.
argentina: Its railway mileage rose from 503 to 31,104 km (313 to 19,327 mi).
argentina: Historian Pacho O'Donnell affirms that Hawaii was the first state that recognised Argentina's independence.
argentina: He suffered a final heart attack on Monday, 1 July 1974, and died at 13:15.
argentina: The Constitution guarantees freedom of religion.
argentina: The name Argentina was probably first given by the Venetian and Genoese navigators, such as Giovanni Caboto.
argentina: Juan Bautista Túpac Amaru (half-brother of Túpac Amaru II) was proposed as monarch.
argentina: Evidence suggests that humans inhabited parts of what is now Argentina as early as 21,000 years ago.
argentina: New York: Infobase Publishing.
argentina: It covers an area of 2,780,085 km2 (1,073,397 mi2), making it the second-largest country in South America after Brazil, the fourth-largest country in the Americas, and the eighth-largest country in the world.
argentina: Argentina is the only Latin American country to maintain troops in Kosovo during SFOR (and later EUFOR) operations where combat engineers of the Argentine Armed Forces are embedded in an Italian brigade.
argentina: The country's women's field hockey team Las Leonas, is one of the world's most successful with four Olympic medals, two World Cups, a World League and seven Champions Trophy.
argentina: Domingo Liotta designed and developed the first artificial heart that was successfully implanted in a human being in 1969.
argentina: In April 2015, by overwhelming majority the Argentine Senate passed a law which recreated Ferrocarriles Argentinos, effectively renationalising the country's railways, a move which saw support from all major political parties on both sides of the political spectrum.
argentina: It also forced him to negotiate with the opposition on every initiative sent to the legislature.
argentina: Since 2012, the Los Pumas have competed against Australia, New Zealand & South Africa in The Rugby Championship, the premier international Rugby competition in the Southern Hemisphere.
argentina: However, Argentina has faced infrastructural challenges in transferring electricity from wind-rich rural areas to its population hubs.
argentina: Argentina is home to both one of the largest Muslim and largest Jewish communities in Latin America, the latter being the seventh most populous in the world.
argentina: The Argentine education system consists of four levels.
argentina: Argentina hosted the Basketball World Cup in 1950 and 1990.
argentina: He ran for reelection in 2019 but lost by nearly eight percentage points to Alberto Fernández, the Justicialist Party candidate.
argentina: Revolutionaries split into two antagonist groups: the Centralists and the Federalists—a move that would define Argentina's first decades of independence.
argentina: Isabel Perón was ousted one year later by a junta of the combined armed forces, led by army general Jorge Rafael Videla.
argentina: Argentina began the world's first regular radio broadcasting on 27 August 1920, when Richard Wagner's Parsifal was aired by a team of medical students led by Enrique Telémaco Susini in Buenos Aires' Teatro Coliseo.
argentina: Nevertheless, the severely weakened Montoneros launched a counterattack in 1979, which was quickly put down, effectively ending the guerrilla threat and securing the junta's position in power.
argentina: Rugby is another popular sport in Argentina.
argentina: Menem embraced and enacted neoliberal policies: a fixed exchange rate, business deregulation, privatisations, and the dismantling of protectionist barriers normalised the economy in the short term.
argentina: Losing control of the Senate made it difficult for him to make key appointments, including to the judiciary.
argentina: He pardoned the officers who had been sentenced during Alfonsín's government.
argentina: De la Rúa left Menem's economic plan in effect despite the worsening crisis, which led to growing social discontent.
argentina: Argentina's capital city, Buenos Aires, is the most visited city in South America.
argentina: Higher education is divided into tertiary, university and post-graduate sub-levels.
argentina: Reynaldo Bignone replaced Galtieri and began to organise the transition to democratic governance.
argentina: Argentina is a multicultural country with significant European influences.
argentina: In April 2016, the Macri government introduced neoliberal austerity measures intended to tackle inflation and overblown public deficits.
argentina: Elected in 1963, Arturo Illia presided over a period of broad economic expansion until his 1966 ousting by a military coup led by General Juan Carlos Onganía.
argentina: Economic activity has also begun to recover after the severe recession at the beginning of 2024.
argentina: Lamoureux, Andrew Jackson; Edmundson, George (1911).
argentina: In 2024, Catholics were 63% of the population.
argentina: In English, the country was traditionally called "the Argentine", mimicking the typical Spanish usage la Argentina and perhaps resulting from a mistaken shortening of the longer name "Argentine Republic".
argentina: He pushed Congress to enact women's suffrage in 1947, and developed a system of social assistance for the most vulnerable sectors of society.
argentina: Though these figures compare favourably with global averages, they fall short of levels in developed nations and in 2006, Argentina ranked fourth in Latin America.
argentina: Victims of the violence in Argentina alone included an estimated 15,000 to 30,000 left-wing activists and militants, including trade unionists, students, journalists, Marxists, Peronist guerrillas, and alleged sympathisers.
argentina: The first written use of the name in Spanish can be traced to La Argentina, a 1602 poem by Martín del Barco Centenera describing the region.
argentina: This reliance on the development of its own nuclear-related technologies, instead of buying them abroad, was a constant of Argentina's nuclear programme conducted by the civilian National Atomic Energy Commission (CNEA).
argentina: The federal government is composed of three branches.
argentina: A secondary or high school mandatory level lasts 5 or 6 years.
argentina: Juan Manuel Fangio was a five-time Formula One world champion under four different teams, winning 102 of his 184 international races, and is widely ranked as the greatest driver of all time.
argentina: Amid a state of political, social, and economic upheaval, Cámpora and Vice President Vicente Solano Lima resigned in July 1973, calling for new elections, but this time with Perón as the Justicialist Party nominee.
argentina: Perón died in July 1974 and was succeeded by his wife, who signed a secret decree empowering the military and the police to "annihilate" the left-wing subversion, stopping ERP's attempt to start a rural insurgence in Tucumán province.
argentina: "The Argentine" fell out of fashion during the mid-to-late 20th century, and now the country is referred to as "Argentina".
argentina: The country has the highest consumption of red meat in the world, traditionally prepared as asado, the Argentine barbecue.
argentina: His wife Eva Perón, who played a critical role in the party, died of cancer in 1952.
argentina: The exact chronology of the repression is still debated, yet the roots of the long political war may have started in 1969 when trade unionists were targeted for assassination by Peronist and Marxist paramilitaries.
argentina: Under pressure from the United States, later Argentina declared war on the Axis Powers (on 27 March 1945, roughly a month before the end of World War II in Europe).
argentina: Internationally laureate sculptors Erminio Blotta, Lola Mora and Rogelio Yrurtia authored many of the classical evocative monuments of the Argentine cityscape.
argentina: The Ezeiza International Airport, about 35 km (22 mi) from downtown Buenos Aires, is the largest in Argentina, followed by Cataratas del Iguazú in Misiones, and El Plumerillo in Mendoza.
argentina: Beyond this they are fully autonomous: they enact their own constitutions, freely organise their local governments, and own and manage their natural and financial resources.
argentina: Military service is voluntary, with enlistment age between 18 and 24 years old and no conscription.
argentina: Buenos Aires seceded but was forced back into the Confederation after being defeated in the 1859 Battle of Cepeda.
argentina: Tango enjoys worldwide popularity nowadays with groups such as Gotan Project, Bajofondo and Tanghetto.
argentina: Favourable results and normalisation in Argentina's economy are expected to continue in 2025.
argentina: Until the period of European colonisation, Argentina was relatively sparsely populated by a wide number of diverse cultures with different social organisations, which can be divided into three main groups.
argentina: Monitoring the World Economy 1820–1992.
argentina: The Sudestada usually moderates cold temperatures but brings very heavy rains, rough seas and coastal flooding.
argentina: Argentina excels in natural gas production, being the largest producer in South America and the 18th-largest globally.
argentina: Argentina is a federation of twenty-three provinces and one autonomous city, Buenos Aires.
argentina: Teatro Colón is a global landmark for opera and classical performances; its acoustics are considered among the world's top five.
argentina: Argentina received technical support and military aid from the United States government during the Johnson, Nixon, Ford, Carter, and Reagan administrations.
argentina: Her short presidency was marked by the collapse of Argentine political and social systems, leading to a constitutional crisis that paved the way for a decade of instability, left-wing terrorist guerrilla attacks, and state-sponsored terrorism.
argentina: In 2010, Argentina became the first country in Latin America, the second in the Americas, and the tenth worldwide to legalise same-sex marriage.
argentina: In Latin America, this is second only to Uruguay and well above the world average, which is currently 7%.
argentina: The Argentine French actress Bérénice Bejo received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 2011 and won the César Award for Best Actress and won the Best Actress award in the Cannes Film Festival for her role in the film The Past.
argentina: In 2004, Buenos Aires, all provincial capitals except Ushuaia, and all medium-sized towns were interconnected by 69,412 km (43,131 mi) of paved roads, out of a road network of 231,374 km (143,769 mi).
argentina: Mendoza, San Miguel de Tucumán, La Plata, Mar del Plata, Salta and Santa Fe have at least half a million people each.
argentina: This cave features stencilled handprints and hunting scenes created between 7,300 BC and 700 AD, offering insights into the lives of early hunter-gatherer communities.
argentina: The print media industry is highly developed in Argentina, with more than two hundred newspapers.
argentina: This Argentine Revolution established a long-term military dictatorship intended to rule indefinitely.
argentina: They initiated the National Reorganization Process, often shortened to Proceso.
argentina: Argentina's highest point is Aconcagua in the Mendoza province (6,959 m (22,831 ft) above sea level), also the highest point in the Southern and Western Hemispheres.
argentina: La Pampa and Chaco became provinces in 1951.
argentina: Perón fired over 2,000 university professors and faculty members from all major public education institutions.
argentina: As the economy continued to tank, Perón started losing popular support, and came to be seen as a threat to the national process.
argentina: The colonisation brought the Spanish Baroque architecture, which can still be appreciated in its simpler Rioplatense style in the reduction of San Ignacio Miní, the Cathedral of Córdoba, and the Cabildo of Luján.
argentina: The World Economy: A Millennial Perspective.
argentina: Malbec, Torrontés, Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah and Chardonnay are some of the most sought-after varieties.
argentina: The Argentine intelligentsia, the middle-class, university students, and professors were seen as particularly troublesome.
argentina: It is enforced by the Federal Police; the Prefecture, which fulfills coast guard duties; the Gendarmerie, which serves border guard tasks; and the Airport Security Police.
argentina: Argentina is the largest Spanish-speaking society that universally employs voseo, the use of the pronoun vos instead of tú ("you"), which imposes the use of alternative verb forms as well.
argentina: On 9 July 1816, the Congress of Tucumán formalised the Declaration of Independence, which is now celebrated as Independence Day, a national holiday.
argentina: Juan de Garay founded Santa Fe in 1573 and the same year Jerónimo Luis de Cabrera set up Córdoba.
argentina: By contrast, the southern province of Santa Cruz has around 1.1/km2 (2.8/sq mi).
argentina: Boosting the neo-Keynesian economic policies laid by Duhalde, Kirchner ended the economic crisis attaining significant fiscal and trade surpluses, and rapid GDP growth.
argentina: By late 2002, the economic crisis began to recede, but the assassination of two piqueteros by the police caused political unrest, prompting Duhalde to move elections forward.
argentina: This makes the region one of the most agriculturally productive on Earth; however, this is also responsible for decimating much of the original ecosystem, to make way for commercial agriculture.
argentina: The country is home to most of the world's top players, among them Adolfo Cambiaso, the best in Polo history.
argentina: Between 1930 and 1976, the armed forces overthrew six governments in Argentina; and the country alternated periods of democracy (1912–1930, 1946–1955, and 1973–1976) with periods of restricted democracy and military rule.
argentina: The Chamber of Senators represents the provinces, and has 72 members elected at-large to six-year terms, with each province having three seats; one-third of Senate seats are up for election every other year.
argentina: 23.8% claim to always attend religious services; 49.1% seldom do and 26.8% never do.
argentina: The Labour Party (later renamed Justicialist Party), the most powerful and influential party in Argentine history, came into power with the rise of Juan Perón to the presidency in 1946.
argentina: Argentina is described as a middle power.
argentina: 2 (11th ed.).
argentina: The national squad won the 2016 Davis Cup.
argentina: Italian and French influences increased at the beginning of the 19th century with strong eclectic overtones that gave the local architecture a unique feeling.
argentina: In 2012, manufacturing accounted for 20.3% of GDP—the largest sector in Argentina's economy.
argentina: He also secured the diplomatic recognition of Argentina from King Kamehameha I of the Kingdom of Hawaii.
argentina: The mining industry of Argentina is less prominent compared to other countries but stands out as the fourth-largest producer of lithium, the 11th-largest of silver and 17th-largest of gold worldwide.
argentina: In 2018, there were 180,000 Alawites in Argentina.
argentina: The latter of whom number around 180,000 individuals.
argentina: Nuclear facilities with Argentine technology have been built in Peru, Algeria, Australia and Egypt.
argentina: The earliest recorded human presence in modern-day Argentina dates back to the Paleolithic period.
argentina: The Great Depression led to the first coup d'état in 1930 led by José Félix Uriburu, beginning the so-called "Infamous Decade" (1930–1943).
argentina: An initial level for children between 45 days to 5 years old, with the last two years being compulsory.
argentina: Climate change in Argentina is predicted to have significant effects on the living conditions in Argentina.
argentina: Anales históricos de la revolucion de la América latina, acompañados de los documentos en su apoyo.
argentina: The Argentine government considered indigenous people as inferior beings, without the same rights as Criollos and Europeans.
argentina: Since then, Argentina has pledged to use nuclear power only for peaceful purposes.
argentina: The Argentine television industry is large, diverse and popular across Latin America, with many productions and TV formats having been exported abroad.
argentina: Even though far-left terrorist organisations had suspended their armed struggle, their joining with the participatory democracy process was interpreted as a direct threat by the Peronist right-wing faction.
argentina: The second group were advanced hunters and food gatherers, who included the Puelche, Querandí and Serranos in the centre-east; and the Tehuelche in the south, all of them conquered by the Mapuche spreading from Chile, and the Qom and Wichi in the north.
argentina: Argentina is a regional power, and retains its historic status as a middle power in international affairs.
argentina: Although the Argentine-built parts for that station amounted to 10% of the total, the nuclear fuel it uses are from Argentina.
argentina: He pursued deregulation policies to alleviate the national economic crisis.
argentina: In March 1982, an Argentine force took control of the British territory of South Georgia and, on 2 April, Argentina invaded the Falkland Islands.
argentina: These bones bore cut marks indicative of butchering with stone tools, implying human activity during the Last Glacial Maximum.
argentina: Massive capital flight from the country was responded to with a freezing of bank accounts, generating further turmoil.
argentina: After 1955, virtuoso Astor Piazzolla popularised Nuevo tango, a subtler and more intellectual trend for the genre.
argentina: The last national territory, Tierra del Fuego, became the Tierra del Fuego, Antártida e Islas del Atlántico Sur Province in 1990.
argentina: Ruled and monitored by Congress through the Houses' Defence Committees, it is organised on the essential principle of legitimate self-defence: the repelling of any external military aggression in order to guarantee freedom of the people, national sovereignty, and territorial integrity.
argentina: Misiones did so in 1953, and Formosa, Neuquén, Río Negro, Chubut and Santa Cruz, in 1955.
argentina: It is made with various types of meats, often including chorizo, sweetbread, chitterlings, and blood sausage.
argentina: There are four incompatible gauges in use; this forces virtually all interregional freight traffic to pass through Buenos Aires.
argentina: This system links all 23 provinces, plus Buenos Aires City, and connects with all neighbouring countries.
argentina: Since 1999 Argentines have enjoyed the highest availability of cable and satellite television in Latin America.
argentina: Anyone who was perceived to be a political dissident or potential rival was subject to threats, physical violence and harassment.
argentina: There are more than 153,000 hospital beds, 121,000 physicians and 37,000 dentists, ratios comparable to developed nations.
argentina: As in the rest of Spanish America, the overthrow of Ferdinand VII during the Peninsular War created great concern.
argentina: Later nuclear power stations employed a higher percentage of Argentine-built components.
argentina: It has three components, although two are nominal because they are not under Argentine sovereignty.
argentina: The population growth rate in 2010 was an estimated 1.03% annually, with a birth rate of 17.7 live births per 1,000 inhabitants and a mortality rate of 7.4 deaths per 1,000 inhabitants.
argentina: There are 30 National Parks of Argentina including many World Heritage Sites.
argentina: Argentina has a comparatively low infant mortality rate.
argentina: Benefiting from rich natural resources, a highly literate population, a diversified industrial base, and an export-oriented agricultural sector, Argentina's economy is Latin America's third-largest, and the second-largest in South America.
argentina: In 1946, Gyula Košice and others created The Madí Movement in Argentina, which then spread to Europe and the United States, where it had a significant impact.
argentina: Many other Argentine films have been acclaimed by international critique.
argentina: The highest increases in precipitation (from the period 1960–2010) have occurred in the eastern parts of the country.
argentina: The romantic ballad genre included singers of international fame such as Sandro de América.
argentina: OECD Publishing.
argentina: The December 2001 riots forced him to resign.
argentina: One year later General Martín Miguel de Güemes stopped royalists on the north.
argentina: Argentina produces an average of 500,000 barrels/day of petroleum, despite the under-utilisation of the Vaca Muerta field due to technical and financial limitations in resource extraction.
argentina: Argentina is a party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
argentina: The Argentine Declaration of Independence on July 9 of 1816 and the Argentine War of Independence (1810–1825) were followed by an extended civil war that lasted until 1880, culminating in the country's reorganisation as a federation.
argentina: He encouraged investment to achieve energetic and industrial self-sufficiency, reversed a chronic trade deficit and lifted the ban on Peronism; yet his efforts to stay on good terms with both the Peronists and the military earned him the rejection of both and a new coup forced him out.
argentina: The first group were basic hunters and food gatherers without the development of pottery, such as the Selkʼnam and Yaghan in the extreme south.
argentina: The only tree-like plant native to the pampa is the evergreen Ombú.
argentina: Provinces are divided for administration purposes into departments and municipalities, except for Buenos Aires Province, which is divided into partidos.
argentina: Although Argentina remained among the fifteen richest countries until mid-century, this coup d'état marked the start of the steady economic and social decline that pushed the country back into underdevelopment.
argentina: By the second semester of 2024, however, poverty levels had fallen sharply to 38%, the lowest since 2022.
argentina: Buenos Aires repelled two ill-fated British invasions in 1806 and 1807.
argentina: On 13 March 2013, Argentine Jorge Mario Bergoglio, the Cardinal Archbishop of Buenos Aires, was elected Bishop of Rome and Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church.
argentina: A month later, in June, Perón returned from Spain.
argentina: To deter it and support the peso, the government imposed foreign currency control.
argentina: Many immigrated from Asian countries to Argentina during the latter half of 19th century, and the first half of the 20th century.
argentina: Alfredo Di Stéfano, Diego Maradona and Lionel Messi are widely considered to be among the best players in the game's history.
argentina: It is the largest producer in South America of wheat, sunflower seed, barley, lemon and pear.
argentina: Argentina is a major non-NATO ally since 1998 and an OECD candidate country since January 2022.
argentina: Lidicker Jr., who presided over IMC 10, was the editor.
argentina: In November 2021, the centre-left coalition of Argentina's ruling Peronist party,  Frente de Todos (Front for Everyone), lost its majority in Congress, for the first time in almost 40 years, in midterm legislative elections.
argentina: He also engaged in a campaign of political suppression.
argentina: Although it enforces neither an official nor a state faith, it gives Roman Catholicism a preferential status.
argentina: Onganía shut down Congress, banned all political parties, and dismantled student and worker unions.
argentina: In November 2024, Argentina's monthly inflation rate slowed to 2.4%, the lowest in over four years.
argentina: The de facto official language is Spanish, spoken by almost all Argentines.
argentina: The Argentine Polo Championship is the sport's most important international team trophy.
argentina: Soon after, riots forced Alfonsín to an early resignation.
argentina: In 1913, Argentina was one of the wealthiest countries in the world by GDP per capita.
argentina: The electronic scientific journal Therya, conceived during IMC 10, began publication by the Mexican Association of Mammalogy (AMMAC), in 2010.
argentina: Established in 1991, the CONAE has since launched two satellites successfully.
argentina: In 2014, 87.4% of Argentina's households had access, a rate similar to those in the United States, Canada and Europe.
argentina: Under increasing political pressure for the return of democracy, Lanusse called for elections in 1973.
argentina: It is most common in late autumn and winter along the central coast and in the Río de la Plata estuary.
argentina: Official website 
National Institute of Tourism Promotion
Argentina.
argentina: Negotiations for the restructuring of $66 billion of its debt continue.
argentina: Emanuel Ginóbili, Luis Scola, Andrés Nocioni, Fabricio Oberto, Pablo Prigioni, Carlos Delfino and Juan Ignacio Sánchez are a few of the country's most acclaimed players, all of them part of the NBA.
argentina: Julio Cortázar, one of the leading members of the Latin American Boom and a major name in 20th century literature, influenced an entire generation of writers in the Americas and Europe.
argentina: Although the most populated areas are generally temperate, Argentina has an exceptional amount of climate diversity, ranging from subtropical in the north to polar in the far south.
argentina: He later became president after a landslide victory over the UCR in the 1946 general election as the Labour candidate.
argentina: Most Arab Argentines belong to the Catholic Church, including both the Latin Church and the Eastern Catholic Churches, or the Eastern Orthodox Church.
argentina: The economy is expected to expand by more than 4% in 2025.
argentina: Crooker, Richard A.
argentina: The name "Argentine Confederation" was also commonly used and was formalised in the Argentine Constitution of 1853.
argentina: Néstor Kirchner was elected as the new president.
argentina: Within the defence budget itself, funding for training and even basic maintenance has been significantly cut, a factor contributing to the accidental loss of the Argentine submarine San Juan in 2017.
argentina: The golden age of tango, from 1930 to the mid-1950s, mirrored that of jazz and swing in the United States, featuring large orchestras such as those of Osvaldo Pugliese, Aníbal Troilo, Francisco Canaro, Julio de Caro and Juan d'Arienzo.
argentina: The Judicial branch includes the Supreme Court and lower federal courts interpret laws and overturn those they find unconstitutional.
argentina: Argentina claims sovereignty over the Falkland Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, the Southern Patagonian Ice Field, and a part of Antarctica.
argentina: The availability of healthcare has also reduced infant mortality from 70 per 1000 live births in 1948 to 12.1 in 2009 and raised life expectancy at birth from 60 years to 76.
argentina: Margheritis, Ana (2010).
argentina: In 1536 Pedro de Mendoza founded the small settlement of Buenos Aires, which was abandoned in 1541.
argentina: The President is elected directly by the vote of the people, serves a four-year term and may be elected to office no more than twice in a row.
argentina: Argentine scientists are still on the cutting edge in fields such as nanotechnology, physics, computer sciences, molecular biology, oncology, ecology and cardiology.
argentina: Besides many of the pasta, sausage and dessert dishes common to continental Europe, Argentines enjoy a wide variety of Indigenous and Criollo creations, including empanadas (a small stuffed pastry), locro (a mixture of corn, beans, meat, bacon, onion, and gourd), humita and mate.
