aristotle: Following Alexander's death, anti-Macedonian sentiment in Athens was rekindled.
aristotle: In Politics, Aristotle addresses the city, property, and trade.
aristotle: Darwin, too, noted such differences, but unlike Aristotle used the data to come to the theory of evolution.
aristotle: The Rhetoric is not conventionally included, but it states that it relies on the Topics.
aristotle: This sets out testable hypotheses and constructs a narrative explanation of what is observed.
aristotle: Dante knew Aristotle directly from Latin translations of his works and indirectly through quotations in the works of Albert Magnus.
aristotle: The process of seeing involved the movement of a visible form from the thing seen through the air (or other medium) to the eye, where the form comes to rest.
aristotle: What is today called Aristotelian logic with its types of syllogism (methods of logical argument), Aristotle himself would have labelled "analytics".
aristotle: Coming-to-be is a change where the substrate of the thing that has undergone the change has itself changed.
aristotle: He notes that an animal's structure is well matched to function so the heron has a long neck, long legs, and a sharp spear-like beak, whereas ducks have short legs and webbed feet.
aristotle: In his On Generation and Corruption, Aristotle related each of the four elements proposed earlier by Empedocles, earth, water, air, and fire, to two of the four sensible qualities, hot, cold, wet, and dry.
aristotle: Aristotle gave a summary of the function of money that was perhaps remarkably precocious for his time.
aristotle: His most important treatises include Physics, Metaphysics, Nicomachean Ethics, Politics, On the Soul and Poetics.
aristotle: However, according to Aristotle, the potential being (matter) and the actual one (form) are one and the same.
aristotle: He describes the catfish, electric ray, and frogfish, as well as cephalopods such as the octopus and paper nautilus.
aristotle: "The Peripatetics: Aristotle" .
aristotle: These thinkers blended Aristotelian philosophy with Christianity, bringing the thought of Ancient Greece into the Middle Ages.
aristotle: The Dutch historian of science Eduard Jan Dijksterhuis writes that Aristotle and his predecessors showed the difficulty of science by "proceed[ing] so readily to frame a theory of such a general character" on limited evidence from their senses.
aristotle: Aristotle distinguished sensation and thought, unlike previous philosophers except for Alcmaeon.
aristotle: He gives accurate descriptions of the four-chambered stomachs of ruminants, and of the ovoviviparous embryological development of the hound shark.
aristotle: His practical science includes ethics and politics; his poetical science means the study of fine arts including poetry; his theoretical science covers physics, mathematics and metaphysics.
aristotle: Aristotle's discussions on retail and interest was a major influence on economic thought in the Middle Ages.
aristotle: He made observations, or at most investigative procedures like dissection.
aristotle: He wrote many dialogues, of which only fragments have survived.
aristotle: Aristotle taught Alexander at the private school of Mieza, in the gardens of the Nymphs, the royal estate near Pella.
aristotle: For that for the sake of which (to hou heneka) a thing is, is its principle, and the becoming is for the sake of the end; and the actuality is the end, and it is for the sake of this that the potentiality is acquired.
aristotle: An impression is left on a semi-fluid bodily organ that undergoes changes in order to make a memory.
aristotle: The sensitive soul experiences sensations and movement.
aristotle: Categories
On Interpretation
Prior Analytics
Posterior Analytics
Topics
On Sophistical Refutations
The order of the books (or the teachings from which they are composed) is not certain, but this list was derived from analysis of Aristotle's writings.
aristotle: Aristotle studied and made significant contributions to "logic, metaphysics, mathematics, physics, biology, botany, ethics, politics, agriculture, medicine, dance, and theatre."
aristotle: In addition, his ethics, although always influential, has gained renewed interest with the modern advent of virtue ethics.
aristotle: Shortly after Plato died, Aristotle left Athens and, at the request of Philip II of Macedon, tutored his son Alexander the Great beginning in 343 BC.
aristotle: The books are:
aristotle: To a biologist, the explanation is convergent evolution.
aristotle: Referring to potentiality, this is what a thing is capable of doing or being acted upon if the conditions are right and it is not prevented by something else.
aristotle: Humans have all three.
aristotle: Images of dreams must be a result of lasting impressions of waking sensory experiences.
aristotle: His teachings and methods of inquiry have had a significant impact across the world, and remain a subject of contemporary philosophical discussion.
aristotle: The traditional story about his departure records that he was disappointed with the academy's direction after control passed to Plato's nephew Speusippus, although it is possible that the anti-Macedonian sentiments in Athens could have also influenced his decision.
aristotle: Opinions have varied on whether Aristotle intended to state quantitative laws.
aristotle: Harvey demonstrated the circulation of the blood, establishing that the heart functioned as a pump rather than being the seat of the soul and the controller of the body's heat, as Aristotle thought.
aristotle: A transitional channel is needed and located in past experiences, both for previous experience and present experience.
aristotle: The term "logic" he reserved to mean dialectics.
aristotle: At the age of seventeen or eighteen, Aristotle moved to Athens to continue his education at Plato's Academy.
aristotle: In Protrepticus, the character 'Aristotle' states:
aristotle: He applies the term mimesis both as a property of a work of art and also as the product of the artist's intention and contends that the audience's realisation of the mimesis is vital to understanding the work itself.
aristotle: Aristotle's work encompassed virtually all facets of intellectual inquiry.
aristotle: The common modern understanding of a political community as a modern state is quite different from Aristotle's understanding.
aristotle: To have the potential of ever being happy in this way necessarily requires a good character (ēthikē aretē), often translated as moral or ethical virtue or excellence.
aristotle: This period in Athens, between 335 and 323 BC, is when Aristotle is believed to have composed many of his philosophical works.
aristotle: For we all agree that the most excellent man should rule, i.e., the supreme by nature, and that the law rules and alone is authoritative; but the law is a kind of intelligence, i.e., a discourse based on intelligence.
aristotle: Remacle (in Greek and French)
The 11-volume 1837 Bekker edition of Aristotle's Works in Greek (PDF Archived 24 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine · DJVU)
aristotle: Herophilus also distinguished between veins and arteries, noting that the latter pulse while the former do not.
aristotle: Aristotle makes philosophy in the broad sense coextensive with reasoning, which he also would describe as "science".
aristotle: When people recall experiences, they stimulate certain previous experiences until they reach the one that is needed.
aristotle: Objects related to Aristotle in the Urus : Techniques and Reception of Graphic Art in Central and Eastern Europe (15th–18th centuries) database
Collections of works
aristotle: There, the papers remained hidden for protection until they were purchased by the collector Apellicon.
aristotle: from oligarchy that offices are to be elected, and from democracy that this is not to be on a property-qualification.
aristotle: If the chain of "images" is needed, one memory stimulates the next.
aristotle: He was born in the city of Stagira in Chalkidiki (northern Greece) during the Classical period.
aristotle: Dante refers to him as "he / Who is acknowledged Master of those who know".
aristotle: For example, the seed of a plant in the soil is potentially (dynamei) a plant, and if it is not prevented by something, it will become a plant.
aristotle: In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, interest in Aristotle revived and Latin Christians had translations made, both from Arabic translations, such as those by Gerard of Cremona, and from the original Greek, such as those by James of Venice and William of Moerbeke.
aristotle: In this system, heavy bodies in steady fall indeed travel faster than light ones (whether friction is ignored, or not), and they do fall more slowly in a denser medium.
aristotle: In the case of two dominoes, when the first is knocked over it causes the second to fall.
aristotle: The final cause (telos) is its purpose, the reason why it exists or is done, or function that something is supposed to serve.
aristotle: Firstly he criticises Plato's Timaeus which holds the soul takes up space and can come into physical contact with bodies.
aristotle: Translated by Hicks, Robert Drew (Two volume ed.).
aristotle: Aristotle also outlines two kinds of rhetorical proofs: enthymeme (proof by syllogism) and paradeigma (proof by example).
aristotle: Aristotle also made many observations about the hydrologic cycle.
aristotle: Since, according to Plato there are two Ideas: animal and biped, how then is man a unity?
aristotle: Aristotle proposed that the cause of earthquakes was a gas or vapour (anathymiaseis) that was trapped inside the earth and trying to escape, following other Greek authors Anaxagoras, Empedocles and Democritus.
aristotle: Aristotle was one of the first people to record any geological observations.
aristotle: Aristotle reasoned that humans must have a function specific to humans, and that this function must be an activity of the psuchē (soul) in accordance with reason (logos).
aristotle: The uniquely human, rational soul receives forms of things and compares them using the nous (intellect) and logos (reason).
aristotle: Dante acknowledges Aristotle's influence explicitly in the poem, when Virgil justifies the Inferno's structure by citing the Nicomachean Ethics.
aristotle: Dreams do not involve sensing a stimulus.
aristotle: It thus uses goods as a means to an end, rather than as an end unto itself.
aristotle: As the founder of the Peripatetic school of philosophy in the Lyceum in Athens, he began the wider Aristotelian tradition that followed, which set the groundwork for the development of modern science.
aristotle: In the meantime, many copies of Aristotle's major works had already begun to circulate and be used in the Lyceum of Athens, Alexandria, and later in Rome.
aristotle: However, modern observation has confirmed several of his more surprising claims.
aristotle: With the loss of the study of ancient Greek in the early medieval Latin West, Aristotle was practically unknown there from c.
aristotle: (6123) Aristoteles, an asteroid in the main asteroid belt, also bears the classical form of his name.
aristotle: Since a person cannot sense during sleep, they cannot have desire.
aristotle: Aristotle provided a complex synthesis of the various philosophies existing prior to him.
aristotle: Animals that have perception of time can retrieve memories of their past observations.
aristotle: Turner, William (1907).
aristotle: Michael of Ephesus wrote commentaries on the works of Aristotle's animal biology and the Politics, completing the series of commentaries on Aristotle's extant works.
aristotle: Aristotle has been called the father of logic, biology, political science, zoology, embryology, natural law, scientific method, rhetoric, psychology, realism, criticism, individualism, teleology, and meteorology.
aristotle: A widespread speculation in antiquity suggested that Aristotle played a role in Alexander's death, but the only evidence of this is an unlikely claim made some six years after the death.
aristotle: However, during sleep the impressions made throughout the day are noticed, free of distractions.
aristotle: The forms also differ in their object of imitation.
aristotle: Aristotle uses the term 'memory' for the actual retaining of an experience in the impression that develops from sensation, and for the intellectual anxiety that comes with the impression because it is formed at a particular time and processing specific contents.
aristotle: Aristotle conceived of politics as being like an organism rather than like a machine, and as a collection of parts, none of which can exist without the others.
aristotle: With the rise of Christianity and closure of the pagan schools by the order of Justinian in 529, the study of Aristotle and other philosophers in the remainder of the Byzantine period was primarily from a Christian perspective.
aristotle: Within memory, if an experience is offered instead of a specific memory, that person will reject this experience until they find what they are looking for.
aristotle: Medieval Muslim scholars described Aristotle as the "First Teacher".
aristotle: Aristoteles is a crater on the Moon bearing the classical form of Aristotle's name.
aristotle: He recognised that animals did not exactly fit onto a scale, and noted exceptions, such as that sharks had a placenta.
aristotle: With this understanding, it can be observed that, as Aristotle stated, heavy objects (on the ground, say) require more force to make them move; and objects pushed with greater force move faster.
aristotle: Scholars speculate that two of Aristotle's now lost works, On kingship and On behalf of the Colonies, were composed by the philosopher for the young prince.
aristotle: Theophrastus was much less concerned with formal causes than Aristotle was, instead pragmatically describing how plants functioned.
aristotle: Aristotle considered the city to be a natural community.
aristotle: Loeb Classical Library.
aristotle: In the case of living things, it implies adaptation to a particular way of life.
aristotle: Chance as an incidental cause lies in the realm of accidental things, "from what is spontaneous".
aristotle: Lastly, the forms differ in their manner of imitation – through narrative or character, through change or no change, and through drama or no drama.
aristotle: Sensation is involved, but in an altered manner.
aristotle: Aristotle reports on sea life from observation on Lesbos and the catches of fishermen.
aristotle: Association is the power innate in a mental state, which operates upon the unexpressed remains of former experiences, allowing them to be recalled.
aristotle: Any sensory experience perceived while a person is asleep, such as actually hearing a door close, does not qualify as part of a dream.
aristotle: Taneli Kukkonen, observes that his achievement in founding two sciences is unmatched, and his reach in influencing "every branch of intellectual enterprise" including Western ethical and political theory, theology, rhetoric, and literary analysis is equally long.
aristotle: His father, Nicomachus, died when Aristotle was a child, and he was brought up by a guardian.
aristotle: In this sense, Aristotle's biology is scientific.
aristotle: An eye is only a good eye in so much as it can see because the proper function of an eye is sight.
aristotle: Like his teacher Plato, Aristotle's philosophy aims at the universal.
aristotle: In Aristotle's terminology, "natural philosophy" is a branch of philosophy examining the phenomena of the natural world, and includes fields that would be regarded today as physics, biology and other natural sciences.
aristotle: His writings span the natural sciences, philosophy, linguistics, economics, politics, psychology, and the arts.
aristotle: He contributed to almost every field of human knowledge then in existence, and was the founder of many new fields.
aristotle: When the best people come to live life this way their practical wisdom (phronesis) and their intellect (nous) can develop with each other towards the highest possible human virtue, the wisdom of an accomplished theoretical or speculative thinker, or in other words, a philosopher.
aristotle: His influence on logic continued well into the 19th century.
aristotle: Under the Ptolemies, the first medical teacher at Alexandria, Herophilus of Chalcedon, corrected Aristotle, placing intelligence in the brain, and connected the nervous system to motion and sensation.
aristotle: Aristotle states that mimesis is a natural instinct of humanity that separates humans from animals and that all human artistry "follows the pattern of nature".
aristotle: Through commentaries and critical engagements, figures like Al-Kindi, Al-Farabi, Ibn Sina (Avicenna), and Averroes breathed new life into Aristotle's ideas.
aristotle: For example, the matter of a house is the bricks, stones, timbers, etc., or whatever constitutes the potential house, while the form of the substance is the actual house, namely 'covering for bodies and chattels' or any other differentia that let us define something as a house.
aristotle: In Politics, Aristotle offers one of the earliest accounts of the origin of money.
aristotle: Aristotle (Ancient Greek: Ἀριστοτέλης, romanized: Aristotélēs; 384–322 BC) was an ancient Greek philosopher and polymath.
aristotle: According to the philosopher Bryan Magee, "it is doubtful whether any human being has ever known as much as he did".
aristotle: Aristotle's writings on motion remained influential until the early modern period.
aristotle: Philosophers of science have concluded that Aristotle was not interested in taxonomy, but zoologists think otherwise.
aristotle: Money thus allows for the association of different goods and makes them "commensurable".
aristotle: During sleep, a person is in an altered state of mind, like a person who is overtaken by strong feelings.
aristotle: The first three treatises form the core of the logical theory stricto sensu: the grammar of the language of logic and the correct rules of reasoning.
aristotle: He goes on to state that money is also useful for future exchange, making it a sort of security.
aristotle: The following is only a small selection.
aristotle: The biographies written in ancient times are often speculative and historians only agree on a few salient points.
aristotle: The material cause describes the material out of which something is composed.
aristotle: His works contain the earliest known systematic study of logic, and were studied by medieval scholars such as Peter Abelard and Jean Buridan.
aristotle: With this definition of the particular substance (i.e., matter and form), Aristotle tries to solve the problem of the unity of the beings, for example, "what is it that makes a man one"?
aristotle: Held commented that he would be interested in the concept of deep homology.
aristotle: He established a library in the Lyceum, which helped him to produce many of his hundreds of books on papyrus scrolls.
aristotle: John Philoponus (in late antiquity) and Galileo (in the early modern period) are said to have shown by experiment that Aristotle's claim that a heavier object falls faster than a lighter object is incorrect.
aristotle: F
        =
        m
        v
      
    
    {\displaystyle F=mv}
  
,
incorrect in modern physics.
aristotle: He correctly predicted that brood size decreases with body mass; that lifespan increases with gestation period and with body mass; and that fecundity decreases with lifespan.
aristotle: Since a person sleeping is in a suggestible state and unable to make judgements, they become easily deceived by what appears in their dreams, like the infatuated person.
aristotle: 20th-century scholarship held that Aristotle had here misinterpreted Plato.
aristotle: Little is known about Aristotle's life.
aristotle: Russell called Aristotle's ethics "repulsive", and labelled his logic "as definitely antiquated as Ptolemaic astronomy".
aristotle: Some of his technical terms remain in use, such as carpel from carpos, fruit, and pericarp, from pericarpion, seed chamber.
aristotle: Aristotle's scheme added the heavenly aether, the divine substance of the heavenly spheres, stars and planets.
aristotle: He viewed optics as stating the laws of sight, thus combining what is now treated as physics and biology.
aristotle: Aristotle also argued that Plato's view of reincarnation entails that a soul and its body can be mis-matched; in principle, Aristotle alleges, any soul can go with any body, according to Plato's theory.
aristotle: growth and diminution, which is change in quantity;
locomotion, which is change in space; and
alteration, which is change in quality.
aristotle: Aristotle believed that although communal arrangements may seem beneficial to society, and that although private property is often blamed for social strife, such evils in fact come from human nature.
aristotle: This gives logic a mathematical foundation with equations, enables it to solve equations as well as check validity, and allows it to handle a wider class of problems by expanding propositions of any number of terms, not just two.
aristotle: Lives of the Eminent Philosophers.
aristotle: He distinguished this as "the study of being qua being" which, as opposed to other studies of being, such as mathematics and natural science, studies that which is eternal, unchanging, and immaterial.
aristotle: Galileo used more doubtful arguments to displace Aristotle's physics, proposing that bodies all fall at the same speed whatever their weight.
aristotle: During this time, Aristotle gifted Alexander an annotated copy of the Iliad, which is said to have become one of Alexander's most prized possessions.
aristotle: While in Athens, his wife Pythias died and Aristotle became involved with Herpyllis of Stagira.
aristotle: The immediate influence of Aristotle's work was felt as the Lyceum grew into the Peripatetic school.
aristotle: Aristotle explains that when a person stares at a moving stimulus such as the waves in a body of water, and then looks away, the next thing they look at appears to have a wavelike motion.
aristotle: Aristotle remained in Athens for nearly twenty years before leaving in 348/47 BC after Plato's death.
aristotle: AD 600 to c.
aristotle: He grouped what a zoologist would call vertebrates as "animals with blood", and invertebrates as "animals without blood".
aristotle: Aristotle did not do experiments in the modern sense.
aristotle: Aristotle is considered the most influential figure in the history of Arabic philosophy and was revered in early Islamic theology.
aristotle: The ancient Greeks did use the term for a range of atmospheric phenomena, but also for earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.
aristotle: The title was later used by Western philosophers (as in Dante's poem) who were influenced by the tradition of Islamic philosophy.
aristotle: Aristotle does not analyse the nature of this movement; he does not anticipate geometrical optics.
aristotle: For Aristotle, the soul is the form of a living being.
aristotle: Referring then to the previous example, it can be said that an actuality is when a plant does one of the activities that plants do.
aristotle: Archimedes corrected Aristotle's theory that bodies move towards their natural resting places; metal boats can float if they displace enough water; floating depends in Archimedes' scheme on the mass and volume of the object, not, as Aristotle thought, its elementary composition.
aristotle: The concept of homology began with Aristotle; the evolutionary developmental biologist Lewis I.
aristotle: Hence it's evident that, according to the most authoritative judgment, intelligence is supreme among goods.
aristotle: Alexander's education under the guardianship of Aristotle likely lasted for only a few years, as at around the age of sixteen he returned to Pella and was appointed regent of Macedon by his father Philip.
aristotle: To search for impressions, people search memory itself.
aristotle: While it is believed that Aristotle's Poetics originally comprised two books – one on comedy and one on tragedy – only the portion that focuses on tragedy has survived.
aristotle: The highest gave live birth to hot and wet creatures, the lowest laid cold, dry mineral-like eggs.
aristotle: It is likely that during Aristotle's time in the Macedonian court, other prominent nobles, like Ptolemy and Cassander, would have occasionally attended his lectures.
aristotle: The logical works of Aristotle were compiled into a set of six books called the Organon around 40 BC by Andronicus of Rhodes or others among his followers.
aristotle: A memory is a mental picture (phantasm) that can be recovered.
aristotle: Money came into use because people became dependent on one another, importing what they needed and exporting the surplus.
aristotle: In systematics too, recent studies consider that Aristotle made important contributions to taxonomy and biological nomenclature.
aristotle: Aristotle distinguished between four different "causes"(Ancient Greek: αἰτία, aitia) or explanations for why an object exists or changes:
aristotle: In the Physics (215a25), Aristotle effectively states a quantitative law, that the speed, v, of a falling body is proportional (say, with constant c) to its weight, W, and inversely proportional to the density, ρ, of the fluid in which it is falling:
aristotle: Because Aristotle believed people perceive all kinds of sense perceptions as impressions, people continually weave together new impressions of experiences.
aristotle: The vegetative soul is concerned with growth and nourishment.
aristotle: Thus the material cause of a wooden table is the wood it is made of.
aristotle: Most of Aristotle's work is probably not in its original form, because it was most likely edited by students and later lecturers.
aristotle: In Generation of Animals, he opens a fertilized hen's egg to see the embryo's heart beating inside.
aristotle: Aristotle has been regarded as the first scientist.
aristotle: Natural motion depends on the element concerned: the aether naturally moves in a circle around the heavens, while the 4 Empedoclean elements move vertically up (like fire, as is observed) or down (like earth) towards their natural resting places.
aristotle: In On the Soul, Aristotle criticizes Plato's theory of the soul and develops his own in response.
aristotle: With the Prior Analytics, Aristotle is credited with the earliest systematic study of logic, and his conception of it was the dominant form of Western logic until 19th-century advances in mathematical logic.
aristotle: Comedy, for instance, is a dramatic imitation of men worse than average; whereas tragedy imitates men slightly better than average.
aristotle: He had a low opinion of retail, believing that contrary to using money to procure things one needs in managing the household, retail trade seeks to make a profit.
aristotle: For animals do not see in order that they may have sight, but they have sight that they may see.
aristotle: The efficient cause is "the primary source", the modern definition of "cause" as either the agent or agency of particular events or states of affairs.
aristotle: Alexander's education probably included a number of subjects, such as ethics and politics, as well as standard literary texts, like Euripides and Homer.
aristotle: Catholic Encyclopedia.
aristotle: Aristotle writes in his Poetics that epic poetry, tragedy, comedy, dithyrambic poetry, painting, sculpture, music, and dance are all fundamentally acts of mimesis ("imitation"), each varying in imitation by medium, object, and manner.
aristotle: Aristotle's views profoundly shaped medieval scholarship.
aristotle: For Aristotle, "all science (dianoia) is either practical, poetical or theoretical" (Metaphysics 1025b25).
aristotle: He was thus critical of Empedocles's theory of a "survival of the fittest" origin of living things and their organs, and ridiculed the idea that accidents could lead to orderly results.
aristotle: Aristotle identified such an optimum activity (the virtuous mean, between the accompanying vices of excess or deficiency) of the soul as the aim of all human deliberate action, eudaimonia, generally translated as "happiness" or sometimes "well-being".
aristotle: In an 1882 letter he wrote that "Linnaeus and Cuvier have been my two gods, though in very different ways, but they were mere schoolboys to old Aristotle".
aristotle: He wrote that because it is impossible to determine the value of every good through a count of the number of other goods it is worth, the necessity arises of a single universal standard of measurement.
aristotle: Aristotle describes sleep in On Sleep and Wakefulness.
aristotle: At the Internet Classics Archive
From the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy:
aristotle: In Book VIII, he distinguishes the matter of the substance as the substratum, or the stuff of which it is composed.
aristotle: Ancient tradition held that Aristotle's family descended from the legendary physician Asclepius and his son Machaon.
aristotle: Aristotle taught that virtue has to do with the proper function (ergon) of a thing.
aristotle: What follows is an overview of the transmission and influence of his texts and ideas into the modern era.
aristotle: He wrote in his Metaphysics (1026a16):
aristotle: A memory occurs when stimuli such as sights or sounds are so complex that the nervous system cannot receive them all at once.
aristotle: Potentially, beings can either 'act' (poiein) or 'be acted upon' (paschein), which can be either innate or learned.
aristotle: His description of the hectocotyl arm of cephalopods, used in sexual reproduction, was widely disbelieved until the 19th century.
aristotle: Aristotle made substantial contributions to economic thought, especially to thought in the Middle Ages.
aristotle: Those without blood were insects, crustacea and hard-shelled molluscs.
aristotle: This study program began with the Categories, which the Neoplatonist philosopher Porphyry of Tyre wrote an introduction to, called Isagoge, which went on to influence subsequent philosophy in late antiquity and the medieval period.
aristotle: v
        =
        c
        
          
            W
            ρ
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v=c{\frac {W}{\rho }}}
aristotle: According to scholar Roger Theodore Lafferty, Dante built up the philosophy of the Comedy on a foundation of Aristotle, just as the scholastics used Aristotle as the basis for their thinking.
aristotle: "Aristotle" .
aristotle: Although he was aware of the existence and potential of larger empires, the natural community according to Aristotle was the city (polis) which functions as a political "community" or "partnership" (koinōnia).
aristotle: He became distinguished as a researcher and lecturer, earning for himself the nickname "mind of the school" by his tutor Plato.
aristotle: The formal cause is its form, i.e., the arrangement of that matter, the design of the table independent of the specific material it is made of.
aristotle: As Plato's disciple Aristotle was rather critical concerning democracy and, following the outline of certain ideas from Plato's Statesman, he developed a coherent theory of integrating various forms of power into a so-called mixed state:
aristotle: Among the best-known depictions is Raphael's fresco The School of Athens, in the Vatican's Apostolic Palace, where the figures of Plato and Aristotle are central to the image, at the architectural vanishing point, reflecting their importance.
aristotle: 1100 except through the Latin translation of the Organon made by Boethius.
aristotle: As a result, Kukkonen argues, any analysis of reality today "will almost certainly carry Aristotelian overtones ...
aristotle: More than 2300 years after his death, Aristotle remains one of the most influential people who ever lived.
aristotle: In the Empedoclean scheme, all matter was made of the four elements, in differing proportions.
aristotle: Aristotle was a keen systematic collector of riddles, folklore, and proverbs; he and his school had a special interest in the riddles of the Delphic Oracle and studied the fables of Aesop.
aristotle: In that particular change he introduces the concept of potentiality (dynamis) and actuality (entelecheia) in association with the matter and the form.
aristotle: Aristotle conducted courses and research at the school for the next twelve years.
aristotle: In De Anima iii 3, Aristotle ascribes the ability to create, to store, and to recall images to the faculty of imagination, phantasia.
aristotle: While at Assos, Aristotle and his colleague Theophrastus did extensive research in botany and marine biology, which they later continued at the near-by island of Lesbos.
aristotle: Aristotle's ontology has the universal (katholou) exist in a lesser sense than particulars (kath' hekaston), things in the world, whereas for Plato the universal is a realer, separately existing form which particular things merely imitate.
aristotle: So, according to Aristotle, the form of apple exists within each apple, rather than in the world of the forms.
aristotle: That is, "if we do not want a thing now, we shall be able to get it when we do want it".
aristotle: At around eighteen years old, he joined Plato's Academy in Athens and remained there until the age of thirty seven (c.
aristotle: Then Aristotle proceeds and concludes that the actuality is prior to potentiality in formula, in time and in substantiality.
aristotle: Aristotle left his works to Theophrastus, his successor as the head of the Lyceum, who in turn passed them down to Neleus of Scepsis in Asia Minor.
aristotle: According to Aristotle, spontaneity and chance are causes of some things, distinguishable from other types of cause such as simple necessity.
aristotle: Henri Carteron held the "extreme view" that Aristotle's concept of force was basically qualitative, but other authors reject this.
aristotle: Kant even stated in the Critique of Pure Reason that with Aristotle, logic reached its completion.
aristotle: He has been referred to as the first scientist.
aristotle: There is also more a specific kind of chance, which Aristotle names "luck", that only applies to people's moral choices.
aristotle: Aristotle believed the chain of thought that achieves recollection of impressions was connected systematically in relationships such as similarity, contrast, and contiguity, described in his laws of association.
aristotle: For example, a person who has a strong infatuation with someone may begin to think they see that person everywhere.
aristotle: Though Aristotle wrote many treatises and dialogues for publication, only around a third of his original output has survived, none of it intended for publication.
aristotle: the sun shines on all the stars and the earth screens none of them." He also wrote descriptions of comets, including the Great Comet of 371 BC.
aristotle: This leads them to believe the dream is real, even when the dreams are absurd.
aristotle: The characters in a tragedy are merely a means of driving the story; and the plot, not the characters, is the chief focus of tragedy.
aristotle: Instead, he systematically gathered data, discovering patterns common to whole groups of animals, and inferring possible causal explanations from these.
aristotle: The influence of his physical science extended from late antiquity and the Early Middle Ages into the Renaissance, and was not replaced systematically until the Enlightenment and theories such as classical mechanics were developed.
aristotle: His data in History of Animals, Generation of Animals, Movement of Animals, and Parts of Animals are from his own observations, statements by knowledgeable people such as beekeepers and fishermen, and accounts by travellers.
aristotle: And it belongs to this sort of philosophy to study being as being, both what it is and what belongs to it just by virtue of being.
aristotle: This then is the mode of the mixture; and the mark of a good mixture of democracy and oligarchy is when it is possible to speak of the same constitution as a democracy and as an oligarchy.
aristotle: However, his use of the term science carries a different meaning than that covered by the term "scientific method".
aristotle: Aristotle was born in 384 BC in Stagira, Chalcidice, about 55 km (34 miles) east of modern-day Thessaloniki.
aristotle: Although little information about Aristotle's childhood has survived, he probably spent some time in the Macedonian capital Pella, making his first connections with the Macedonian monarchy.
aristotle: He used optics in his Meteorology, treating it as a science.
aristotle: He claimed that dreams are not foretelling and not sent by a divine being.
aristotle: In violent motion, as soon as the agent stops causing it, the motion stops also: in other words, the natural state of an object is to be at rest, since Aristotle does not address friction.
aristotle: So, dreams result from these lasting impressions.
aristotle: Memory is of the past, prediction is of the future, and sensation is of the present.
aristotle: Only humans can remember impressions of intellectual activity, such as numbers and words.
aristotle: Islamic thinkers embraced Aristotle's rigorous methods while challenging his conclusions where they diverged from their religious beliefs, which later influenced Thomas Aquinas and other Western Christian scholastic philosophers.
aristotle: Aristotle's psychology, in his treatise On the Soul (peri psychēs), posits three kinds of soul (psyches): the vegetative, sensitive, and rational.
aristotle: Aristotle's pupil and successor, Theophrastus, wrote the History of Plants, a pioneering work in botany.
aristotle: In one famous example, he counsels Alexander to be "a leader to the Greeks and a despot to the barbarians".
aristotle: His intellect, Aristotle's is the extreme limit of human intellect, apart from him upon whom the divine emanation has flowed forth to such an extent that they reach the level of prophecy, there being no level higher".
aristotle: He often lectured small groups of distinguished students and, along with some of them, such as Theophrastus, Eudemus, and Aristoxenus, Aristotle built a large library which included manuscripts, maps, and museum objects.
aristotle: A force operates to awaken the hidden material to bring up the actual experience.
aristotle: One component of Aristotle's theory disagrees with previously held beliefs.
aristotle: Aristotle encouraged Alexander toward eastern conquest, and his own attitude towards Persia was strongly ethnocentric.
aristotle: He stated that geological change was too slow to be observed in one person's lifetime.
aristotle: Tragedy is the imitation of action arousing pity and fear, and is meant to effect the catharsis of those same emotions.
aristotle: Recollection is thus the self-directed activity of retrieving information stored in a memory impression.
aristotle: He also categorizes rhetoric into three genres: epideictic (ceremonial speeches dealing with praise or blame), forensic (judicial speeches over guilt or innocence), and deliberative (speeches calling on an audience to decide on an issue).
aristotle: Russell stated that these errors make it difficult to do historical justice to Aristotle, until one remembers what an advance he made upon all of his predecessors.
aristotle: Aristotle implies that in a vacuum the speed of fall would become infinite, and concludes from this apparent absurdity that a vacuum is not possible.
aristotle: Zoologists have frequently mocked Aristotle for errors and unverified secondhand reports.
aristotle: Retrieval of impressions cannot be performed suddenly.
aristotle: Aristotle concludes Poetics with a discussion on which, if either, is superior: epic or tragic mimesis.
aristotle: The primary way that ancient philosophers in the Roman empire engaged with Aristotle's technical work was via philosophical commentary; interpretation and explication of the text of Aristotle along with their own synthesis and views on the topics discussed by Aristotle.
aristotle: In addition to his works on ethics, which address the individual, Aristotle addressed the city in his work titled Politics.
aristotle: Aristotle's writings can seem to imply evolution, but Aristotle saw mutations or hybridizations as rare accidents, distinct from natural causes.
aristotle: Also, in his letter to Samuel ibn Tibbon, Maimonides observes that there is no need for Samuel to study the writings of philosophers who preceded Aristotle because the works of the latter are "sufficient by themselves and [superior] to all that were written before them.
aristotle: For example, the eyes possess the potentiality of sight (innate – being acted upon), while the capability of playing the flute can be possessed by learning (exercise – acting).
aristotle: Translated into Arabic, Aristotle's logic, ethics, and natural philosophy inspired early Islamic scholars.
aristotle: Aristotle distinguished about 500 animal species, arranging them in a nonreligious graded scale of perfection, with man at the top.
aristotle: His response to criticisms of private property, in Lionel Robbins's view, anticipated later proponents of private property among philosophers and economists, as it related to the overall utility of social arrangements.
aristotle: Most surviving works of Aristotle, as well as some of the original Greek commentaries, were translated into Arabic and studied by Muslim philosophers, scientists, and scholars.
aristotle: He wrote several treatises on ethics, most notably including the Nicomachean Ethics.
aristotle: Similarly, Aristotle considered making a profit through interest unnatural, as it makes a gain out of the money itself, and not from its use.
aristotle: He was the son of Nicomachus, the personal physician of King Amyntas of Macedon, and Phaestis, a woman with origins from Chalcis, Euboea.
aristotle: They harmonized his logic with Islamic theology, employed his scientific methodology to explore the natural world, and reinterpreted his ethics within the framework of Islamic morality.
aristotle: These changes are the same as those involved in sensation, 'common sense', and thinking.
aristotle: For Aristotle, universals still exist, but are only encountered when "instantiated" in a particular substance.
aristotle: constitutional to take ...
aristotle: While a person is asleep, the critical activities, which include thinking, sensing, recalling and remembering, do not function.
aristotle: Aristotle's works underwent a revival in the Abbasid Caliphate.
aristotle: He suggests that because tragedy possesses all the attributes of an epic, possibly possesses additional attributes such as spectacle and music, is more unified, and achieves the aim of its mimesis in shorter scope, it can be considered superior to epic.
aristotle: In 1985, the biologist Peter Medawar could still state in "pure seventeenth century" tones that Aristotle had assembled "a strange and generally speaking rather tiresome farrago of hearsay, imperfect observation, wishful thinking and credulity amounting to downright gullibility".
aristotle: In summary, the matter used to make a house has potentiality to be a house and both the activity of building and the form of the final house are actualities, which is also a final cause or end.
aristotle: Charles Darwin regarded Aristotle as the most important contributor to the subject of biology.
aristotle: Since impressions are all that are left, dreams do not resemble waking experience.
aristotle: Aristotle taught that tragedy is composed of six elements: plot-structure, character, style, thought, spectacle, and lyric poetry.
aristotle: Aristotle's students included Aristoxenus, Dicaearchus, Demetrius of Phalerum, Eudemos of Rhodes, Harpalus, Hephaestion, Mnason of Phocis, Nicomachus, and Theophrastus.
aristotle: In modern terms, he nowhere says that different species can have a common ancestor, that one kind can change into another, or that kinds can become extinct.
aristotle: Aristotle describes two kinds of motion: "violent" or "unnatural motion", such as that of a thrown stone, in the Physics (254b10), and "natural motion", such as of a falling object, in On the Heavens (300a20).
aristotle: Aristotle was a virtue ethicist who considered ethics to be a practical rather than theoretical study, i.e., one aimed at becoming good and doing good rather than knowing for its own sake.
aristotle: His apparent emphasis on animals rather than plants is a historical accident: his works on botany have been lost, but two books on plants by his pupil Theophrastus have survived.
aristotle: In contrast to earlier philosophers, but in accordance with the Egyptians, he placed the rational soul in the heart.
aristotle: In antiquity, Aristotle's writings were divisible into two groups; the "exoteric" works, intended for the public, and the "esoteric" treatises, for use within the Lyceum school.
aristotle: They had a son whom Aristotle named after his father, Nicomachus.
aristotle: However, Aristotle did not use that term himself, which is due to a later compiler, but instead called it "first philosophy" or theology.
aristotle: He was the first person known to conjecture, in his book Meteorology, the existence of a landmass in the southern high-latitude region, which he called Antarctica.
aristotle: The formula that gives the components is the account of the matter, and the formula that gives the differentia is the account of the form.
aristotle: Philoponus questioned Aristotle's teaching of physics, noting its flaws and introducing the theory of impetus to explain his observations.
aristotle: This would imply the equation
aristotle: It is a result of overuse of the senses or of digestion, and is vital to the body.
aristotle: He believed that retail trade was in this way unnatural.
aristotle: The word "metaphysics" comes from the title of a collection of works by Aristotle bearing that title.
aristotle: During this time, Aristotle married Pythias, Hermias's adoptive daughter and niece, and had a daughter whom they also named Pythias.
aristotle: Aristotle was the founder of term logic, pioneered the study of zoology, and benefited future scientists and philosophers through his contributions to the scientific method.
aristotle: This style is common in modern biology when large amounts of data become available in a new field, such as genomics.
aristotle: He died in Chalcis, Euboea of natural causes later that same year, having named his student Antipater as his chief executor and left a will in which he asked to be buried next to his wife.
aristotle: Because all beings are composites of form and matter, the form of living beings is that which endows them with what is specific to living beings, e.g., the ability to initiate movement.
aristotle: Those with blood were divided into live-bearing (mammals), and egg-laying (birds, reptiles, fish).
aristotle: The building included a gymnasium and a colonnade (peripatos), from which the school acquired the name Peripatetic.
aristotle: Practising zoologists are unlikely to adhere to Aristotle's chain of being, but its influence is still perceptible in the use of the terms "lower" and "upper" to designate taxa such as groups of plants.
aristotle: Remembering involves only perception of the things remembered and of the time passed.
aristotle: However, the senses work during sleep, albeit differently.
aristotle: Aristotle's conception of the city is organic, and he is considered one of the first to conceive of the city in this manner.
aristotle: Aristotle believed that past experiences are hidden within the mind.
aristotle: When the body is awake, a person constantly encounters new stimuli and so the impressions of previous stimuli are ignored.
aristotle: Nicomachus was said to have belonged to the medical guild of Asclepiadae and was likely responsible for Aristotle's early interest in biology and medicine.
aristotle: Actuality is the fulfilment of the end of the potentiality.
aristotle: In the early modern period, scientists such as William Harvey in England and Galileo Galilei in Italy reacted against the theories of Aristotle and other classical era thinkers like Galen, establishing new theories based to some degree on observation and experiment.
aristotle: For the sake of convenience, people then agreed to deal in something that is intrinsically useful and easily applicable, such as iron or silver.
aristotle: In Athens, he probably experienced the Eleusinian Mysteries as he wrote when describing the sights one viewed at the Mysteries, "to experience is to learn" (παθεĩν μαθεĩν).
aristotle: After a hiatus of several centuries, formal commentary by Eustratius and Michael of Ephesus reappeared in the late eleventh and early twelfth centuries, apparently sponsored by Anna Comnena.
aristotle: Scholars such as Boethius, Peter Abelard, and John Buridan worked on Aristotelian logic.
aristotle: Because the end (telos) is the principle of every change, and potentiality exists for the sake of the end, actuality, accordingly, is the end.
aristotle: When a person perceives a stimulus and it is no longer the focus of their attention, it leaves an impression.
aristotle: Aristotle reasoned that instances in which dreams resemble future events are simply coincidences.
aristotle: He famously stated that "man is by nature a political animal" and argued that humanity's defining factor among others in the animal kingdom is its rationality.
aristotle: And again, what standard do we have, what criterion of good things, that is more precise than the intelligent man?
aristotle: For all that this man will choose, if the choice is based on his knowledge, are good things and their contraries are bad.
aristotle: Where Plato spoke of the forms as existing separately from the things that participate in them, Aristotle maintained that universals are multiply located.
aristotle: Aristotle's Rhetoric proposes that a speaker can use three basic kinds of appeals to persuade his audience: ethos (an appeal to the speaker's character), pathos (an appeal to the audience's emotion), and logos (an appeal to logical reasoning).
aristotle: In the case of an animal, this agency is a combination of how it develops from the egg, and how its body functions.
aristotle: Aristotle was revered among medieval Muslim scholars as "The First Teacher", and among medieval Christians like Thomas Aquinas as simply "The Philosopher".
aristotle: A contrary opinion is given by Carlo Rovelli, who argues that Aristotle's physics of motion is correct within its domain of validity, that of objects in the Earth's gravitational field immersed in a fluid such as air.
aristotle: Aristotle at PhilPapers
2553  Aristotle at the Indiana Philosophy Ontology Project
At the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy:
aristotle: As a metic, Aristotle could not own property in Athens and thus rented a building known as the Lyceum (named after the sacred grove of Apollo Lykeios), in which he established his own school.
aristotle: He spent two years observing and describing the zoology of Lesbos and the surrounding seas, including in particular the Pyrrha lagoon in the centre of Lesbos.
aristotle: John Philoponus stands out for having attempted a fundamental critique of Aristotle's views on the eternity of the world, movement, and other elements of Aristotelian thought.
aristotle: Also, in later editions of the book "On the Origin of Species', Darwin traced evolutionary ideas as far back as Aristotle; the text he cites is a summary by Aristotle of the ideas of the earlier Greek philosopher Empedocles.
aristotle: In addition, Aristotle disagreed with Plato about the location of universals.
aristotle: Laërtius, Diogenes.
aristotle: Aristotle's work remains largely unknown to modern scientists, though zoologists sometimes mention him as the father of biology or in particular of marine biology.
aristotle: He influenced Judeo-Islamic philosophies during the Middle Ages, as well as Christian theology, especially the Neoplatonism of the Early Church and the scholastic tradition of the Catholic Church.
aristotle: Aristotle left with Xenocrates to Assos in Asia Minor, where he was invited by his former fellow student Hermias of Atarneus; he stayed there for a few years, leaving around the time of Hermias' death.
aristotle: For Aristotle, knowledge is that which is necessarily the case, along with the study of causes.
aristotle: Moreover, he considered the city to be prior in importance to the family, which in turn is prior to the individual, "for the whole must of necessity be prior to the part".
aristotle: Aristotle returned to Athens for the second and final time a year after Philip II's assassination in 336 BC.
aristotle: From his data, Aristotle inferred rules relating the life-history features of live-bearing tetrapods (terrestrial placental mammals) that he studied.
aristotle: The evolutionary biologist Armand Marie Leroi has reconstructed Aristotle's biology, while Niko Tinbergen's four questions, based on Aristotle's four causes, are used to analyse animal behaviour; they examine function, phylogeny, mechanism, and ontogeny.
aristotle: Aristotle examines the concepts of substance (ousia) and essence (to ti ên einai, "the what it was to be") in his Metaphysics (Book VII), and he concludes that a particular substance is a combination of both matter and form, a philosophical theory called hylomorphism.
aristotle: In 343/42 BC, Aristotle was invited to Pella by Philip II of Macedon to become the tutor to his thirteen-year-old son Alexander; a choice perhaps influenced by the relationship of Aristotle's family with the Macedonian dynasty.
aristotle: Those works that have survived are in treatise form and were not, for the most part, intended for widespread publication; they are generally thought to be lecture aids for his students.
aristotle: Both of Aristotle's parents died when he was still at a young age and Proxenus of Atarneus became his guardian.
aristotle: Recollection occurs when a retrieved experience naturally follows another.
aristotle: Maimonides also considered Aristotle to be the greatest philosopher that ever lived, and styled him as the "chief of the philosophers".
