asia: Islam, which originated in the Hejaz located in modern-day Saudi Arabia, is the second largest and most widely-spread religion in Asia with at least 1 billion Muslims constituting around 23.8% of the total population of Asia.
asia: Asia has three main financial centers: Hong Kong, Tokyo, and Singapore.
asia: The breakup of the Ottoman Empire in the early 20th century led to the Middle East also being contested and partitioned by the British and French.
asia: Encyclopedia of Asian history (1988)
vol.
asia: Geographically, Asia is the major eastern constituent of the continent of Eurasia with Europe being a northwestern peninsula of the landmass.
asia: Western imperialism in Asia from the 18th to 20th centuries coincided with the Industrial Revolution in the West and the dethroning of India and China as the world's foremost economies.
asia: These civilisations, which are located in the Hilly flanks, are among the oldest in the world, with evidence of farming dating back to around 9000 BCE.
asia: Other Asian writers who won Nobel Prize for literature include Yasunari Kawabata (Japan, 1968), Kenzaburō Ōe (Japan, 1994), Gao Xingjian (China, 2000), Orhan Pamuk (Turkey, 2006), Mo Yan (China, 2012), and Han Kang (South Korea, 2024).
asia: Weber's Line split the region in two with regard to the balance of fauna between Asian origin or Australo-Papuan origin.
asia: Asia is both the largest continental economy in the world by both GDP nominal and PPP values and the world's fastest growing economic region.
asia: While the urban city dwellers were more advanced technologically and socially, in many cases they could do little in a military aspect to defend against the mounted hordes of the steppe.
asia: The term "Asia" is believed to originate in the Bronze Age toponym Assuwa (Hittite: 𒀸𒋗𒉿, romanized: aš-šu-wa) which originally referred only to a portion of northwestern Anatolia.
asia: China, the second highest achiever in the world in terms of HDI improvement since 1970, is the only country on the "Top 10 Movers" list due to income rather than health or education achievements.
asia: Southwestern sections of the continent are hot.
asia: The northernmost part of Asia, including much of Siberia, was largely inaccessible to the steppe nomads, owing to the dense forests, climate and tundra.
asia: Vibrant indigenous minorities in West Asia are adhering to the Eastern Catholic Churches and Eastern Orthodoxy.
asia: Lotus Temple is a big Baháʼí temple in India.
asia: Most of the said awardees are from Japan and Israel except for Chandrasekhar and Raman (India), Abdus Salam (Pakistan), Arafat (Palestinian Territories), Kim (South Korea), and Horta and Belo (Timor-Leste).
asia: Significant Christian communities also found in Central Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia and East Asia.
asia: Since the middle of the 20th century, growth has particularly occurred in other Asian countries, because Baháʼí activities in many Muslim countries has been severely suppressed by authorities.
asia: Culturally, the Wallacea region denoted the transition between Austronesian and Melanesian people, with varying degrees of intermixing between the two.
asia: A far smaller part of the goods traffic runs via South Africa to Europe.
asia: Encyclopedia of Ancient Asian Civilizations.
asia: The central steppe region had long been inhabited by horse-mounted nomads who could reach all areas of Asia from the steppes.
asia: Ventris, Michael; Chadwick, John (1973).
asia: Retrieved 20 July 2011.
asia: Nearly half of the world's new renewable energy capacity is built in Asia.: 1470
asia: China was a major economic power for much of recorded history, with the highest GDP per capita until 1500.
asia: Asia is the largest continent on Earth.
asia: Bowring, Philip (12 February 1987).
asia: In East Asia, particularly in China and Japan, Confucianism, Taoism and Zen Buddhism took shape.
asia: During the Hellenistic period, this convention was revised, and the boundary between Europe and Asia was now considered to be the Tanais (the modern Don River).
asia: Before the arrival of modern humans, Flores was occupied by Homo floresiensis, a small archaic human.
asia: Christians constitute around 12.6% of the total population of Asia.
asia: They include elements of nonmaterial pursuits, whereas another school of thought from India, Cārvāka, preached the enjoyment of the material world.
asia: She is a Buddhist and was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991.
asia: Documents in Mycenaean Greek (2nd ed.).
asia: Christianity is a widespread religion in Asia, with more than 286 million adherents in 2010 according to Pew Research Center, and nearly 364 million according to Britannica Book of the Year 2014.
asia: Leventhal Map Center at the Boston Public Library.
asia: Charles Scribner's Sons, 2002).
asia: Archived from the original on 29 September 2011.
asia: The following subdivision into regions is used, among others, by the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD).
asia: New Delhi: Wordsmith, 2002, ISBN 978-81-87412-08-3
Kapadia, Feroz, and Mandira Mukherjee.
asia: Manufacturing in Asia has traditionally been strongest in East and Southeast Asia, particularly in China, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, India, the Philippines, and Singapore.
asia: Archived from the original on 28 July 2011.
asia: These civilisations may well have exchanged technologies and ideas such as mathematics and the wheel.
asia: Cambridge University Press.
asia: Almost all Asian religions have philosophical character and Asian philosophical traditions cover a large spectrum of philosophical thoughts and writings.
asia: The prize was awarded for Tagore's prose works and poetry, which had a significant additional impact on national literatures throughout the Western world.
asia: Raman is the first Asian to get a Nobel prize in Sciences.
asia: Retrieved 22 April 2009.
asia: Wallacea's eastern boundary with Sahul is represented by the Lydekker's Line.
asia: Jainism is found mainly in India and in overseas Indian communities such as the United States and Malaysia.
asia: The continent, which has long been home to the majority of the human population, was the site of many of the first civilisations.
asia: Almost all of Europe and a major part of Asia sit atop the Eurasian Plate, adjoined on the south by the Arabian and Indian Plate and with the easternmost part of Siberia (east of the Chersky Range) on the North American Plate.
asia: As of 2012, Hinduism has around 1.1 billion adherents.
asia: Wang, Hui (31 March 2011).
asia: The border had been moved perforce from the Black Sea (the Romans' definition) to the Caspian Sea into which the Emba and Ural rivers project.
asia: Researchers believe that the modern human, or Homo sapiens, migrated about 60,000 years ago to South Asia along the Indian Ocean.
asia: In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Japan's GDP by currency exchange rates was almost as large as that of the rest of Asia combined.
asia: Around 45–50% live in Syria, 35% to 40% live in Lebanon, and less than 10% live in Israel.
asia: The land route to Europe is also the subject of construction projects, comparatively smaller in scope.
asia: Its 4.7 billion people constitute roughly 60% of the world's population.
asia: Cities, states and empires developed in these lowlands.
asia: The Yangtze in China is the longest river in the continent.
asia: Modern humans interbred with an archaic human species called Denisovans in Southeast Asia.
asia: She is a nonviolent pro-democracy activist and leader of the National League for Democracy in Burma (Myanmar) and a noted prisoner of conscience.
asia: 1933) is an Indian economist who was awarded the 1998 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his contributions to welfare economics and social choice theory, and for his interest in the problems of society's poorest members.
asia: In 2006, the Bangladeshi Muhammad Yunus of was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for the establishment of Grameen Bank, a community development bank that lends money to poor people, especially women.
asia: The myth of continents: a critique of metageography.
asia: Due to its large and extremely competitive information technology industry, India has become a major hub for outsourcing.
asia: It is currently the only region on track to meet the goal of tripling renewable capacity by 2030, largely due to China, the leading nation in renewable energy generation.
asia: "Asia Maps".
asia: Vasily Tatishchev announced that he had proposed the idea to von Strahlenberg.
asia: Amartya Sen (b.
asia: New Delhi: Anmol Publications, 1999.
asia: Confucianism is found predominantly in mainland China, South Korea, Taiwan and in overseas Chinese populations.
asia: Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for "his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China" on 8 October 2010.
asia: Ancestors of East Eurasians split from Ancient West Eurasians about 46,000 years ago, migrating out of the hub in the Iranian Plateau.
asia: This is the convention used by Roman era authors such as Posidonius, Strabo and Ptolemy.
asia: Saint Thomas Christians in India trace their origins to the evangelistic activity of Thomas the Apostle in the 1st century.
asia: Herodotus used the term in reference to Anatolia and the territory of the Achaemenid Empire, in contrast to Greece and Egypt.
asia: West Asia, also known as Southwest Asia or the Middle East, has cultural roots in the ancient civilisations of the Fertile Crescent and Mesopotamia, which gave rise to the Persian, Arab, Ottoman empires, as well as the Abrahamic religions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
asia: The monsoon circulation dominates across southern and eastern sections, due to the presence of the Himalayas forcing the formation of a thermal low which draws in moisture during the summer.
asia: China was the largest and most advanced economy on Earth for much of recorded history and shared the mantle with India.
asia: The division of Eurasia into two continents reflects East–West cultural differences, some of which vary on a spectrum.
asia: From the time of Herodotus, a minority of geographers have rejected the three-continent system (Europe, Africa, Asia) on the grounds that there is no substantial physical separation between them.
asia: Asia was the birthplace of most of the world's mainstream religions including Islam, Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism, and many other religions.
asia: Asia (  AY-zhə, UK also  AY-shə) is the largest continent in the world by both land area and population.
asia: By 2040, Asia is expected to account for the majority of global coal use and over a quarter of natural gas consumption.: 1468
At the same time, Asia is the global leader in renewable energy expansion.
asia: The culture of Asia is a diverse blend of customs and traditions that have been practiced by the various ethnic groups of the continent for centuries.
asia: A particularly significant part of Asian goods traffic is carried out on the Pacific Rim, toward Los Angeles and Long Beach.
asia: The number of Druze people worldwide is around one million.
asia: The chief factor in determining which islands of the Indonesian Archipelago are Asian has been the location of the colonial possessions of the various empires there (not all European).
asia: Japan and South Korea continue to dominate in the area of multinational corporations, though increasingly China and India are making significant inroads.
asia: In 2013, with regional tourism growing and dominated by Chinese visitors, MasterCard released the Global Destination Cities Index report, in which 10 of 20 cities are Asian and Pacific cities.
asia: The end of the Cold War and the Soviet Union by 1991 saw the independence of the five modern Central Asian countries.
asia: The increased use of outsourcing has assisted the rise of India and the China as financial centers.
asia: For example, Sir Barry Cunliffe, the emeritus professor of European archeology at Oxford, argues that Europe has been geographically and culturally merely "the western excrescence of the continent of Asia".
asia: The Islamic Mughal Empire (preceded by the Delhi Sultanate of the 13th to early 16th century) and the Hindu Maratha Empire controlled much of India in the 16th and 18th centuries respectively.
asia: Lawrence Island in the northern Bering Sea belongs to the US state of Alaska and may be associated with either continent but is almost always considered part of North America, as with the Rat Islands in the Aleutian chain.
asia: ISBN 978-0-674-05519-3.
asia: Within the states mentioned above are several partially recognized countries with limited to no international recognition.
asia: The border between Asia and Europe was later redefined by European academics.
asia: The most active place on Earth for tropical cyclone activity lies northeast of the Philippines and south of Japan.
asia: This ended in 2010, when China overtook Japan to become the world's second largest economy.
asia: Asia is the largest continent in the world by a considerable margin, and it is rich in natural resources, such as petroleum, forests, fish, water, rice, copper and silver.
asia: In many Chinese communities, Taoism is easily syncretised with Mahayana Buddhism, thus exact religious statistics are difficult to obtain and may be understated or overstated.
asia: Roughly contemporary Linear B documents contain the term aswia (Mycenaean Greek: 𐀀𐀯𐀹𐀊, romanized: a-si-wi-ja), seemingly in reference to captives from the same area.
asia: According to Citigroup in 2011, 9 of 11 Global Growth Generator countries came from Asia driven by population and income growth.
asia: The earliest postulated expansion out of the steppe is that of the Indo-Europeans, who spread their languages into West Asia, South Asia, and the borders of China, where the Tocharians resided.
asia: Citigroup in The Wealth Report 2012 stated that the total wealth of people in Asia with over $100 million in assets exceeded that of their North American counterparts for the first time, as the world's "economic center of gravity" continued moving east.
asia: This species is believed to have lived in East and Southeast Asia from 1.8 million to 110,000 years ago.
asia: In 2011, Asia topped Europe in the number of millionaires.
asia: With the end of World War II in 1945 and the wartime ruination of Europe and imperial Japan, many countries in Asia were able to rapidly free themselves of colonial rule.
asia: Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University Press.
asia: The coastal periphery was home to some of the world's earliest known civilisations, each of them developing around fertile river valleys.
asia: Buddhism has a great following in Mainland Southeast Asia and East Asia.
asia: Most Asian countries have more than one language that is natively spoken.
asia: Eastern Economic Review.
asia: In general terms, it is bounded on the east by the Pacific Ocean, on the south by the Indian Ocean, and on the north by the Arctic Ocean.
asia: Asia has exhibited economic dynamism as well as robust population growth during the 20th century, but overall population growth has since fallen.
asia: Afghanistan (155) ranked lowest amongst Asian countries out of the 169 countries assessed.
asia: The latter had suggested the Emba River as the southern part of this boundary.
asia: Another Nobel Peace Prize winner is Aung San Suu Kyi from Burma for her peaceful and non-violent struggle under a military dictatorship in Burma.
asia: He reports that Greeks assumed that Asia was named after the wife of Prometheus, but that Lydians say it was named after Asies, son of Cotys, who passed the name on to a tribe at Sardis.
asia: He is known for the concept of micro credit which, allows poor and destitute people to borrow money.
asia: Many overseas Indians in countries such as Burma, Singapore and Malaysia also adhere to Hinduism.
asia: In the Philippines and Timor-Leste, Catholicism is the predominant religion; it was introduced by the Spaniards and the Portuguese, respectively.
asia: China and India traded places as the largest economies in the world from 1 to 1800 CE.
asia: Taiwan (35–93%), South Korea (23–50%), Malaysia (19–21%), Nepal (9–11%), Vietnam (10–75%), China (20–50%), Singapore (31%), North Korea (2–14%), and small communities in India and Bangladesh.
asia: Many of the world's major religions have their origins in Asia, including the five most practiced in the world (excluding irreligion), which are Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Chinese folk religion (classified as Confucianism and Taoism), and Buddhism.
asia: "What is Asia?".
asia: Therefore, Asia is a region where various independent cultures coexist rather than sharing a single culture, and its boundary with Europe is somewhat arbitrary and has moved since its first conception in classical antiquity.
asia: None of them are members of the UN, however Palestine has observer state status:
asia: "Display Maps".
asia: In 1730, five years after the death of Peter the Great,  Philip Johan von Strahlenberg published in Sweden a new atlas proposing the Ural Mountains as the border of Asia.
asia: At the end of 2011, there were 18,000 people in Asia, mainly in Southeast Asia, China, and Japan, with at least $100 million in disposable assets, compared to North America with 17,000 and Western Europe with 14,000.
asia: The Bering Strait and Bering Sea separate the landmasses of Asia and North America, as well as forming the international boundary between Russia and the United States.
asia: Asia is subdivided into 49 countries, five of them (Georgia, Azerbaijan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Turkey) are transcontinental countries lying partly in Europe.
asia: Climates range from Arctic and subarctic in Siberia to tropical in southern India and Southeast Asia.
asia: Hindu mythology similarly tells about an avatar of Vishnu in the form of a fish who warned Manu of a terrible flood.
asia: The border of Asia with Europe is a historical and cultural construct, as there is no clear physical and geographical separation between them.
asia: The Iliad (attributed by the ancient Greeks to Homer) mentions two Phrygians in the Trojan War named Asios (literally 'Asian'); and also a marsh or lowland containing a marsh in Lydia as ασιος.
asia: Lewis and Wigen assert, "The narrowing of 'Southeast Asia' to its present boundaries was thus a gradual process."
asia: Text taken from Global Forest Resources Assessment 2025​, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
asia: This growth, driven largely by China and increasingly by India, Indonesia, and Viet Nam, makes Asia the fastest-growing region for electricity demand globally, at about 5% per year.
asia: Its present life expectancy is 25 years longer than in the 1970s.
asia: Among non-European empires, the Ottoman Empire controlled Anatolia, most of the Middle East, North Africa and the Balkans from the mid 16th century onward, while in the 17th century, the Manchu conquered China and established the Qing dynasty.
asia: It covers 9% of the Earth's total surface area (or 30% of its land area), and has the longest coastline, at 62,800 kilometres (39,022 mi).
asia: The region now accounts for about 36% of global primary energy consumption, a share projected to approach 50% by 2050.: 1468 Fossil fuels remain central in Asia: 66% of its energy is generated from fossil fuels, and Asia makes up 83% of the world's coal generation.
asia: Indian philosophy includes Hindu philosophy and Buddhist philosophy.
asia: However, coal is slowly being phased out and natural gas is displacing oil and oil products in various sectors, supported by policies and regulations.
asia: 2 (11th ed.).
asia: Kamal, Niraj.
asia: Recently there has been a growing Druze diaspora.
asia: In general, the further west and coastal a region is, the stronger the Austronesian influences, and the further east and inland a region is, the stronger the Melanesian influences.
asia: The Druze originated in West Asia, is a monotheistic religion based on the teachings of figures like Hamza ibn Ali and al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah, and Greek philosophers such as Plato and Aristotle.
asia: The faith represents around 25% of Asia's population and is the largest religion in Asia.
asia: North Asia (Siberia)
Central Asia
West Asia (the Middle East or Near East and part of the Caucasus)
South Asia (Indian subcontinent)
East Asia (Far East)
Southeast Asia (East Indies and Indochina)
asia: European involvement in Asia became more significant from the Age of Discovery onward, with Iberian-sponsored sailors such as Christopher Columbus and Vasco da Gama paving the way for new routes from Atlantic Europe to Pacific Asia and the Indian Ocean respectively in the late 15th century.
asia: It is moist across southeast sections, and dry across much of the interior.
asia: Based on Global Office Locations 2011, Asia dominated global office locations with 4 of the top 5 being in Asia: Hong Kong, Singapore, Tokyo and Seoul.
asia: As of 2026, China is by far the largest economy on the continent.
asia: Some Arab countries took economic advantage of massive oil deposits that were discovered in their territory, becoming globally influential, though stability in the Middle East has been affected since 1948 by the Arab–Israeli conflict and American-led interventions.
asia: In 1995, Japan's economy nearly equaled that of the US as the largest economy in the world for a day, after the Japanese currency reached a record high of 79 yen/US$.
asia: Over 80% of the populations of both India and Nepal adhere to Hinduism, alongside significant communities in Bangladesh, Pakistan, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Bali, Indonesia.
asia: Rabindranath Tagore, a Bengali dramatist and author from Santiniketan (now in West Bengal, India), won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1913, becoming the first Asian Nobel laureate.
asia: Licensed under CC BY 4.0 (license statement/permission).
asia: In 2025, India overtook Japan in terms of nominal GDP to become the world's 4th largest and Asia's 2nd largest economy.
asia: The Soil Maps of Asia.
asia: The Maluku Islands (except the Aru Islands) are often considered to lie on the border of southeast Asia, with the Aru Islands and Western New Guinea, to the east of the Lydekker's Line, being wholly part of Oceania, as both lie on the Australian continental plate.
asia: A commonly accepted division places Asia to the east of the Suez Canal separating it from Africa; and to the east of the Turkish straits, the Ural Mountains and Ural River, and to the south of the Caucasus Mountains and the Caspian and Black seas, separating it from Europe.
asia: The Aleutian Islands are an island chain extending westward from the Alaskan Peninsula toward Russia's Komandorski Islands and Kamchatka Peninsula.
asia: Tropical rainforests stretch across much of southern Asia and coniferous and deciduous forests lie farther north.
asia: In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the economy of China had an average annual growth rate of more than 8%.
asia: Taoism is found mainly in mainland China, Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore.
asia: The border between Asia and Oceania is usually placed somewhere in the Indonesian Archipelago, specifically in Eastern Indonesia.
asia: Tagore also authored both the Indian and Bangladeshi national anthems.
asia: Mother Teresa of India and Shirin Ebadi of Iran were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their significant and pioneering efforts for democracy and human rights, especially for the rights of women and children.
asia: University of Texas Libraries.
asia: The story of the Great Flood for example, as presented to Jews in the Hebrew Bible in the narrative of Noah—and later to Christians in the Old Testament, and to Muslims in the Quran—is earliest found in Mesopotamian mythology, in the Enûma Eliš and Epic of Gilgamesh.
asia: Encyclopaedia of Asian Culture and Society.
asia: The Communist-governed countries of China, Vietnam and North Korea are officially atheist, thus the number of Buddhists and other religious adherents may be under-reported.
asia: In 2010, Asia had 3.3 million millionaires (people with net worth over US$1 million excluding their homes), slightly below North America's 3.4 million.
asia: The Mongol Empire conquered a large part of Asia in the 13th century, an area extending from China to Europe.
asia: The religions of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism originated in India, South Asia.
asia: About 1.8 million years ago, Homo erectus left the African continent.
asia: Mecca, Medina and Jerusalem are the three holiest cities for Islam in all the world.
asia: The Silk Road became the main east–west trading route in the Asian hinterlands while the Straits of Malacca stood as a major sea route.
asia: However, the lowlands did not have enough open grasslands to support a large equestrian force; for this and other reasons, the nomads who conquered states in China, India, and the Middle East often found themselves adapting to the local, more affluent societies.
asia: China's wind and solar capacity has surged in recent years, together overtaking that of coal, while in 2024 India become the world's third largest generator of electricity from wind and solar.
asia: The term was later adopted by the Romans, who used it in reference to the province of Asia, located in western Anatolia.
asia: With 12.7% of the world Muslim population, the country currently with the largest Muslim population in the world is Indonesia, followed by Pakistan (11.5%), India (10%), Bangladesh, Iran and Turkey.
asia: The Abrahamic religions including Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Druze faith, and Baháʼí Faith originated in West Asia.
asia: The melting of the Arctic is also paving the way for new shipping routes from Northeast Asia to Europe and North America.
asia: East Asian nations (along with Singapore in Southeast Asia) became economically prosperous with high-growth "tiger economies"; China, having undergone the reform and opening up under Deng Xiaoping, regained its place among the top two economies of the world by the 21st century.
asia: He won the Nobel Prize in Physics "for his work on the scattering of light and for the discovery of the effect named after him".
asia: One of the first writers to use Asia as a name of the whole continent was Pliny.
asia: The Dalai Lama received the Nobel Peace Prize, in Oslo, Norway in 1989.
asia: Asia is home to several language families and many language isolates.
asia: Yunus also became the leader of an interim government after the 2024 Bangladesh quota reform movement.
asia: Intra-Asian trade, including sea trade, is growing rapidly.
asia: Encyclopædia Britannica.
asia: Berkeley: University of California Press.
asia: Asia varies greatly across and within its regions with regard to ethnic groups, cultures, environments, economics, historical ties, and government systems.
asia: The most democratic countries in Asia are Japan, Taiwan and South Korea according to the V-Dem Democracy indices.
asia: These regions are defined by their cultural similarities, including common religions, languages, and ethnicities.
asia: For instance, according to Ethnologue, more than 700 languages are spoken in Indonesia, more than 400 languages spoken in India, and more than 100 are spoken in the Philippines.
asia: Buddhism is the religion of the majority of the populations of Cambodia (96%), Thailand (95%), Burma (80–89%), Japan (36–96%), Bhutan (75–84%), Sri Lanka (70%), Laos (60–67%) and Mongolia (53–93%).
asia: Its per capita income increased a stunning 21-fold over the last four decades, also lifting hundreds of millions out of income poverty.
asia: 1 online; vol 2 online; vol 3 online; vol 4 online
Higham, Charles.
asia: Jews are the predominant ethnic group in Israel (75.6%) numbering at about 6.1 million, although the levels of adherence to Jewish religion vary.
asia: Facts on File library of world history.
asia: This was also the first time an Asian city (Bangkok) was in the number one spot, with 15.98 million international visitors.
asia: East Asia had by far the strongest overall Human Development Index (HDI) improvement of any region in the world, nearly doubling average HDI attainment over the past 40 years, according to the report's analysis of health, education and income data.
asia: The Baháʼí Faith originated in Asia, in Iran (Persia), and spread from there to the Ottoman Empire, Central Asia, India, and Burma during the lifetime of Bahá'u'lláh.
asia: Some of the largest daily temperature ranges on Earth occur in western sections of Asia.
asia: The threefold division of the Old World into Africa, Asia, and Europe has been in use since the 6th century BCE, due to Greek geographers such as Anaximander and Hecataeus.
asia: Levinson, David, and Karen Christensen, eds.
asia: One significant influence on Japan had been the United States, which had begun projecting influence across the Pacific after its early-to-mid-19th century westward expansion.
asia: This is extremely rare however, due to their non-tropical biogeography, as well as their inhabitants, who have historically been related to the Indigenous peoples of the Americas.
asia: Asian mythology is complex and diverse.
asia: He is the first Chinese citizen to be awarded a Nobel Prize of any kind while residing in China.
asia: Geographical Asia is a cultural artifact of European conceptions of the world, beginning with the Ancient Greeks, being imposed onto other cultures, an imprecise concept causing endemic contention about what it means.
asia: Before the Mongol invasion, Song dynasty reportedly had approximately 120 million citizens; the 1300 census which followed the invasion reported roughly 60 million people.
asia: Archived from the original on 12 August 2011.
asia: According to economic historian Angus Maddison, India had the world's largest economy for much of the past three millennia prior to the 19th century, accounting for 25% of the world's industrial output.
asia: In Greek mythology, "Asia" (Ἀσία or Ἀσίη) was the name of a "Nymph or Titan goddess of Lydia".
asia: Retrieved 26 July 2011.
asia: Asia does not exactly correspond to the cultural borders of its various types of constituents.
asia: These areas remained very sparsely populated.
asia: Natural gas demand in emerging market and developing economies in Asia expanded by around 6% in 2024, accounting for nearly 40% of incremental global gas demand.
asia: Iran is the largest Shia country.
asia: The Wallace Line separates the Asian and Wallacea biogeographical realms, a transition zone of deep water straits between the Asian and Australian continental shelves.
asia: Ancient Chinese mythology also tells of a Great Flood spanning generations, one that required the combined efforts of emperors and divinities to control.
asia: The term appears in Hittite records recounting how a confederation of Assuwan states including Troy unsuccessfully rebelled against the Hittite king Tudhaliya I around 1400 BCE.
asia: It is located to the east of the Suez Canal and the Ural Mountains, and south of the Caucasus Mountains (or the Kuma–Manych Depression) and the Caspian and Black Seas.
asia: Since the concept of Asia derives from the term for the eastern region from a European perspective, Asia is the remaining vast area of Eurasia minus Europe.
asia: There are various approaches to the regional division of Asia.
asia: The Aleutian Islands are sometimes associated with Oceania, owing to their status as remote Pacific islands, and their proximity to the Pacific Plate.
asia: China has many languages and dialects in different provinces.
asia: As of 2016, there are am estimated 14.4–17.5 million (2016, est.) Jews alive in the world today, making them one of the smallest Asian minorities, at roughly 0.3–0.4& of the total population of the continent.
asia: This division of Asia into regions by the United Nations is done solely for statistical reasons and does not imply any assumption about political or other affiliations of countries and territories.
asia: Ebadi is the first Iranian and the first Muslim woman to receive the prize.
asia: Trade between Asian countries and countries on other continents is largely carried out via sea routes.
asia: Outside of Israel there are small ancient Jewish communities in Turkey (17,400), Azerbaijan (9,100), Iran (8,756), India (5,000) and Uzbekistan (4,000), among many other places.
asia: The borrowers pay back money within the specified period and defaulting is very low.
asia: ISBN 978-0-520-20743-1.
asia: Encyclopedia of Modern Asia.
asia: Yet it was not among the region's top performers in improving school enrollment and life expectancy.Nepal, a South Asian country, emerges as one of the world's fastest movers since 1970 mainly due to health and education achievements.
asia: Economic growth in Asia since World War II to the 1990s had been concentrated in Japan as well as South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore, known as the Four Asian Tigers, which are now all considered developed economies, having among the highest GDP per capita in Asia.
asia: It covers an area of more than 44 million square kilometres, about 30% of Earth's total land area and 8% of Earth's total surface area.
asia: This national and continental boundary separates the Diomede Islands in the Bering Strait, with Big Diomede in Russia and Little Diomede in the United States.
asia: Between the Black Sea and the Caspian, the border is often placed along the crest of the Caucasus Mountains, although it is sometimes placed further north, on the Kuma–Manych Depression.
asia: At their nearest points, Alaska and Russia are separated by only 4 kilometres (2.5 miles).
asia: It is bounded on the east by the Pacific Ocean, on the south by the Indian Ocean and on the north by the Arctic Ocean.
asia: Many companies from Europe, North America, South Korea, and Japan have operations in Asia's developing countries to take advantage of its abundant supply of cheap labour and relatively developed infrastructure.
asia: However, it is mostly concentrated in South Asia.
asia: Call centers and business process outsourcing firms (BPOs) are becoming major employers in India and the Philippines due to the availability of a large pool of highly skilled, English-speaking workers.
asia: Some may consider the American writer, Pearl S.
asia: In 2014, Kailash Satyarthi from India and Malala Yousafzai from Pakistan were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize "for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education".
asia: Japan has won the most Nobel Prizes of any Asian nation with 24 followed by India which has won 13.
asia: European Digital Archive of Soil Maps – EuDASM.
asia: It is followed by India, Japan, South Korea, Turkey, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, and Taiwan, which are all ranked among the top 20 largest economies by both nominal GDP and PPP values.
asia: New York: Facts On File, 2004.
asia: Around 68% of international firms have an office in Hong Kong.
asia: In Armenia and Georgia, Eastern Orthodoxy is the predominant religion.
asia: The center and the peripheries were mostly kept separated by mountains and deserts.
asia: The Hajj and Umrah attract large numbers of Muslim devotees from all over the world to Mecca and Medina.
asia: Sikhism is found in Northern India and amongst overseas Indian communities in other parts of Asia, especially Southeast Asia.
asia: Asia is generally defined as comprising the eastern four-fifths of Eurasia.
asia: Between 1990 and 2000 the area of primary forest in Asia decreased by 1.06 million hectares per year, between 2000 and 2015 it decreased by 280 000 ha per year.
asia: More than four of every five children of school age in Nepal now attend primary school, compared to just one in five 40 years ago.
asia: Over the next century various proposals were made until the Ural River prevailed in the mid-19th century.
asia: Asia has extremely diverse climate features.
asia: The Caucasus and Himalaya mountains and the Karakum and Gobi deserts formed barriers that the steppe horsemen could cross only with difficulty.
asia: Geographically, Russia is partly and mostly in Asia, but is considered a European nation, both culturally and politically.
asia: Archived from the original on 18 July 2011.
asia: The Himalayas between Nepal and China is the tallest mountain range in the world.
asia: This makes Egypt a transcontinental country, with the Sinai Peninsula in Asia and the remainder of the country in Africa.
asia: The independence of India came along with the carving out of a separate nation for the majority of South Asian Muslims, which in 1971 further split into Pakistan and Bangladesh; The Cold War in Asia strained relations between India and Pakistan and affected Asia more generally.
asia: Perry–Castañeda Library Map Collection.
asia: The continent is divided into six geographic sub-regions: Central Asia, East Asia, North Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia, and West Asia.
asia: Asia, Europe and Africa make up a single continuous landmass—Afro-Eurasia—and share a common continental shelf.
asia: Around this time, Western powers started to dominate China in what later became known as the century of humiliation, with the British-supported opium trade and later Opium Wars resulting in China being forced into an unprecedented situation of importing more than it exported.
asia: Asia shares the landmass of Eurasia with Europe, and of Afro-Eurasia with both Europe and Africa.
asia: Other innovations, such as writing, seem to have been developed individually in each area.
asia: They are Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Mongolia, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Vietnam.
asia: Despite the challenges posed by the vast size of the continent and the presence of natural barriers such as deserts and mountain ranges, trade and commerce have helped to create a Pan-Asian culture that is shared across the region.
asia: The terms Southeast Asia and Oceania, devised in the 19th century, have had several vastly different geographic meanings since their inception.
asia: The civilisations in Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley and the Yellow River shared many similarities.
asia: The Gobi Desert is in Mongolia and the Arabian Desert stretches across much of the Middle East.
asia: Siberia is one of the coldest places in the Northern Hemisphere, and can act as a source of arctic air masses for North America.
asia: The Politics of Imagining Asia.
asia: For several decades in the late twentieth century, Japan was the largest economy in Asia and second-largest in the world, after surpassing the Soviet Union (measured in net material product) in 1990 and Germany in 1968.
asia: Hong Kong ranked highest among the countries grouped on the HDI (number 7 in the world, which is in the "very high human development" category), followed by Singapore (9), Japan (19) and South Korea (22).
asia: The Russian Empire also began to expand into northwestern Asia from the 17th century, and would eventually take control of all of Siberia and most of Central Asia by the end of the 19th century.
asia: In the Middle East, such as in the Levant, Anatolia and Fars, Syriac Christianity (Church of the East) and Oriental Orthodoxy are prevalent minority denominations, which are both Eastern Christian sects mainly adhered to Assyrian people or Syriac Christians.
asia: "Arise Asia: Respond to White Peril".
asia: The Black Death, one of the most devastating pandemics in human history, is thought to have originated in the arid plains of central Asia, where it then travelled along the Silk Road.
