association_football: Association football is part of a family of football games that emerged from various ball games played worldwide since antiquity.
association_football: A referee can show a yellow or red card to a player, substitute, substituted player, and to non-players such as managers and support staff.
association_football: This area has a number of functions, the most prominent being to mark where the goalkeeper may handle the ball and where a penalty foul by a member of the defending team becomes punishable by a penalty kick.
association_football: There are also reports of annual football matches played by women in Midlothian, Scotland, during the 1790s.
association_football: The sticking point was hacking, which a twelfth club at the meeting, Blackheath FC, had wanted to keep, resulting in their withdrawal from the FA.
association_football: Restrictions against female participation in the sport began to be reduced in the late 1960s and the 1970s.
association_football: The FIFA Women's World Cup was inaugurated in 1991: the first tournament was held in China, featuring 12 teams from the six confederations.
association_football: The A-League in Australia also uses a closed league system.
association_football: Goal kick: when the ball has wholly crossed the goal line without a goal having been scored and having last been touched by a player of the attacking team; awarded to defending team.
association_football: Association football is played in accordance with a set of rules known as the Laws of the Game.
association_football: An image of an episkyros player depicted in low relief on a stele of c.
association_football: The FIFA Confederations Cup was contested by the winners of all six continental championships, the current FIFA World Cup champions, and the country which was hosting the next World Cup.
association_football: Though there are a variety of positions in which the outfield (non-goalkeeper) players are strategically placed by a coach, these positions are not defined or required by the Laws.
association_football: Another medieval sport that can be considered a form of early football is la soule (or choule), played in France from the 12th century, in which the ball was propelled by hands, feet, and sticks.
association_football: The FA ban led to the formation of the short-lived English Ladies Football Association and play moved to rugby grounds.
association_football: The FIFA headquarters are located in Zürich, Switzerland.
association_football: The popularity of association football has been connected to identity fusion with replacement fandom collective identities.
association_football: While players typically spend most of the game in a specific position, there are few restrictions on player movement, and players can switch positions at any time.
association_football: There are situations where a goal can be disallowed, such as an offside call or a foul in the build-up to the goal.
association_football: In knockout competitions where a winner is required, various methods may be employed to break such a deadlock; some competitions may invoke replays.
association_football: These positions are further subdivided according to the area of the field in which the player spends the most time.
association_football: The current champions are Argentina, who won their third title at the 2022 tournament in Qatar.
association_football: Players and football writers have argued that this ban was, in fact, due to envy of the large crowds that women's matches attracted, and because the FA had no control over the money made from the women's game.
association_football: Opposing players may try to regain control of the ball by intercepting a pass or through tackling the opponent in possession of the ball; however, physical contact between opponents is restricted.
association_football: A game is officiated by a referee, who has "full authority to enforce the Laws of the Game in connection with the match to which he has been appointed" (Law 5), and whose decisions are final.
association_football: At the end of a season, which typically runs from August to May, the top team is declared the champion.
association_football: Even if an offence is not penalised due to advantage being played, the offender may still be sanctioned for misconduct at the next stoppage of play.
association_football: The most prestigious competition in European club football is the UEFA Champions League, which attracts an extensive television audience worldwide.
association_football: North America is the dominant region in women's football, with the United States winning the most FIFA Women's World Cups and Olympic tournaments.
association_football: The board was formed in 1886 after a meeting in Manchester of the Football Association, the Scottish Football Association, the Football Association of Wales, and the Irish Football Association.
association_football: Other national associations may be members of continental confederations but otherwise not participate in FIFA competitions.
association_football: Initially spelt assoccer (a shortening of "association"), it was later reduced to the modern spelling.
association_football: The duration of stoppage time is at the sole discretion of the referee.
association_football: Millions of people regularly go to football stadiums to follow their favourite teams, whilst billions more watch the game on television or on the internet.
association_football: Each team is led by a captain who has only one official responsibility as mandated by the Laws of the Game: to represent their team in the coin toss before kick-off or penalty kicks.
association_football: Direct free kick: awarded to fouled team following certain listed "penal" fouls.
association_football: Some countries' top divisions feature highly-paid star players; in smaller countries, lower divisions, and many women's clubs, players may be part-timers with a second job, or amateurs.
association_football: Internationally, association football is governed by FIFA.
association_football: The referee alone signals the end of the match.
association_football: Headgear is not a required piece of equipment, but players may choose to wear it to protect themselves from head injury.
association_football: There has been a football tournament at every Summer Olympic Games since 1900, except at the 1932 games in Los Angeles when FIFA and the International Olympic Committee (IOC) had disagreed over the status of amateur players.
association_football: In each country, football clubs are usually federated in associations or leagues that organise official tournaments among themselves, from which the champion of each country and the teams that will participate in international club tournaments emerge.
association_football: A foul occurs when a player commits an offence listed in the Laws of the Game while the ball is in play.
association_football: Six regional confederations are associated with FIFA; these are:
association_football: A number of players may be replaced by substitutes during the course of the game.
association_football: England is also home to the world's first football league, which was founded in Birmingham in 1888 by Aston Villa director William McGregor.
association_football: The growing popularity of the international game led to the admittance of FIFA representatives to the IFAB in 1913.
association_football: The winners of each continental competition contest the FIFA Intercontinental Cup, held annually, and the FIFA Club World Cup, held once every four years.
association_football: Nevertheless, women have been playing football and similar games for as long as such games have existed.
association_football: There is usually a 15-minute half-time break between halves.
association_football: She and others like her paved the way for women's football.
association_football: The first Asian Women's Championship happened in 1975, initially without the approval of the AFC, but later recognised by them.
association_football: The goalkeeper must wear clothing that is easily distinguishable from that worn by the other players and the match officials.
association_football: The finals tournament involved 32 national teams (expanding to 48 teams for the 2026 tournament) competing over a four-week period.
association_football: At the end of a regular season played in a round-robin format, the clubs with the most points compete in play-offs to determine the league champion.
association_football: Goals scored during extra time periods count towards the final score of the game, but kicks from the penalty mark are only used to decide the team that progresses to the next part of the tournament, with goals scored in a penalty shoot-out not making up part of the final score.
association_football: In spite of the resistance from governing bodies, British women continued to play football.
association_football: There is documented evidence of women's early involvement in association football.
association_football: The referee is assisted by two assistant referees.
association_football: the FA in England, U.S.
association_football: Goal line technology is used to measure if the whole ball has crossed the goal-line thereby determining whether a goal has been scored or not; this was brought in to prevent controversy.
association_football: If the score is still tied after extra time, some competitions allow the use of penalty shoot-outs (previously known in the Laws of the Game as "kicks from the penalty mark") to determine which team will progress to the next stage of the tournament or be the champion.
association_football: The referee may punish a player's or substitute's misconduct by a caution (yellow card) or dismissal (red card).
association_football: Cuju players would pass the ball around, having to avoid it touching the ground at any point.
association_football: In front of the goal is the penalty area.
association_football: Misconduct may occur at any time, and while the offences that constitute misconduct are listed, the definitions are broad.
association_football: Kicking ball games arose independently multiple times across multiple cultures.
association_football: When the ball becomes out of play, play is restarted by one of eight restart methods depending on how it went out of play:
association_football: The Freemasons' Tavern was the setting for five more meetings of the FA between October and December 1863; the English FA eventually issued the first comprehensive set of rules named Laws of the Game, forming modern football.
association_football: International football, without qualification, most often refers to the former.
association_football: The current champions are Spain, after winning their first title in the 2023 tournament.
association_football: Frescoes from the Han dynasty (25–220 CE) depict female figures playing the ancient Chinese game cuju.
association_football: There are four types of calls that can be reviewed: mistaken identity in awarding a red or yellow card, goals and whether there was a violation during the build-up, direct red card decisions, and penalty decisions.
association_football: Variants of association football have been codified for teams of reduced size, such as five-a-side football; for non-traditional playing environments, including beach soccer, futsal and indoor soccer; and for athletes with disabilities (Paralympic football).
association_football: The men's World Cup is the most-viewed sporting event in the world, surpassing the Olympic Games.
association_football: Women's football still faces many struggles, but its worldwide growth has seen major competitions being launched at both the national and international levels, mirroring the men's competitions.
association_football: Street football can be played with only minimal equipment – a basic game can be played on almost any open area of reasonable size with just a ball made from almost any material and items to mark the positions of the goalposts.
association_football: If a player has been dismissed, no substitute can be brought on in their place and the player may not participate in further play.
association_football: The referee may "call back" play and penalise the original offence if the anticipated advantage does not ensue within "a few seconds".
association_football: In North America, pasuckuakohowog was a ball game played by the Algonquians; it was described as "almost identical to the kind of folk football being played in Europe at the same time, in which the ball was kicked through goals".
association_football: The recognised international governing body of football (and associated games, such as futsal and beach soccer) is FIFA.
association_football: Other English rugby clubs followed this lead and did not join the FA, and instead in 1871, along with Blackheath, formed the Rugby Football Union.
association_football: The score of a match cannot be altered after the game, even if later evidence shows that decisions (including whether a goal was awarded or not) were incorrect.
association_football: Rather than stopping play, the referee may allow play to continue if doing so will benefit the team against which an offence has been committed.
association_football: They played in one of the first women's international matches against a French XI team in 1920, and also made up most of the England team against a Scottish Ladies XI in the same year, winning 22–0.
association_football: In league competitions, games may end in a draw.
association_football: 211 national associations are affiliated both with FIFA and with their respective continental confederations.
association_football: Under the tournament's current format that was expanded in 2023, national teams vie for 31 slots in a three-year qualification phase, while the host nation's team enters automatically as the 32nd slot.
association_football: Due to the relatively high ambient temperatures in some regions, cooling breaks for the players were introduced.
association_football: The top five European leagues – Premier League (England), Bundesliga (Germany), La Liga (Spain), Serie A (Italy), and Ligue 1 (France) – attract most of the world's best players and, during the 2006–07 season, each of these leagues had a total wage cost in excess of €600 million.
association_football: Goalkeepers are the only players allowed to play the ball with their hands or arms, provided they do so within the penalty area in front of their own goal.
association_football: A goal may not be scored directly (without the ball first touching another player) from an indirect free kick.
association_football: In the Middle Ages, one notable game with similarities to modern football was calcio storico fiorentino, which originated in Florence, Italy.
association_football: This was generally regarded as a warm-up tournament for the upcoming FIFA World Cup and did not carry the same prestige as the World Cup itself.
association_football: IFAB recommends "that a match should not continue if there are fewer than seven players in either team".
association_football: A second yellow card in the same game leads to a red card, which results in a dismissal.
association_football: The governing bodies in each country operate league systems in a domestic season, normally comprising several divisions, in which the teams gain points throughout the season depending on results, usually three points for a win, one for a draw and zero for a defeat.
association_football: Phaininda and episkyros were Greek ball games.
association_football: The ten outfield players may be arranged in any combination.
association_football: Each team consists of a maximum of eleven players (excluding substitutes), one of whom must be the goalkeeper.
association_football: As professionalism spread around the world, the gap in quality between the World Cup and the Olympics widened.
association_football: Broadly, these include three main categories: strikers, or forwards, whose main task is to score goals; defenders, who specialise in preventing their opponents from scoring; and midfielders, who dispossess the opposition and keep possession of the ball to pass it to the forwards on their team.
association_football: In contrast, the combined revenue of these leagues was €19.6 billion.
association_football: The board consists of four representatives from FIFA and one representative from each of the four British associations.
association_football: The longer boundary lines are touchlines, while the shorter boundaries (on which the goals are placed) are goal lines.
association_football: The offences that constitute a foul are listed in Law 12.
association_football: This form of slang also gave rise to rugger for rugby football, fiver and tenner for five pound and ten pound notes, and the now-archaic footer that was also a name for association football.
association_football: The ball is spherical with a circumference of between 68 and 70 cm (27 and 28 in), a weight in the range of 410 to 450 g (14 to 16 oz), and a pressure between 0.6 and 1.1 standard atmospheres (8.5 and 15.6 pounds per square inch) at sea level.
association_football: In many high-level games there is also a fourth official who assists the referee and may replace another official should the need arise.
association_football: Football is played at a professional level all over the world.
association_football: If the result is still equal, extra time and potentially a penalty shoot-out are required.
association_football: Under the Laws, the two basic states of play during a game are ball in play and ball out of play.
association_football: The FIFA World Cup, inaugurated in 1930, became the main stage for players of both continents to show their worth and the strength of their national teams.
association_football: The team that has scored more goals at the end of the game is the winner; if both teams have scored an equal number of goals then the game is a draw.
association_football: Wearing an athletic supporter with protective cup is recommended for male players by medical experts and professionals.
association_football: Players in these positions are referred to as outfield players, to distinguish them from the goalkeeper.
association_football: The end of the match is known as full-time.
association_football: These are the European Championship (UEFA), the Copa América (CONMEBOL), the Africa Cup of Nations (CAF), the Asian Cup (AFC), the Gold Cup (CONCACAF) and the Nations Cup (OFC).
association_football: Other fouls are punishable by an indirect free kick.
association_football: Common reasons for a substitution include injury, tiredness, ineffectiveness, a tactical switch, or timewasting at the end of a finely poised game.
association_football: Most countries supplement the league system with one or more "cup" competitions organised on a knock-out basis.
association_football: The game is played with a football that is 68–70 cm (27–28 in) in circumference.
association_football: The term was coined to distinguish the type of football played in accordance with the FA rules from other types that were gaining popularity at the time, particularly rugby football.
association_football: Such informal games can have team sizes that vary from eleven-a-side, can use a limited or modified subset of the official rules, and can be self-officiated by the players.
association_football: The countries that benefited most were the Soviet Bloc countries of Eastern Europe, where top athletes were state-sponsored while retaining their status as amateurs.
association_football: Since 1992, male competitors must be under 23 years old, although since 1996, three players over the age of 23 have been allowed per squad.
association_football: Association football, more commonly known as simply football or soccer, is a team sport played between two teams of 11 players who almost exclusively use their feet to propel a ball around a pitch.
association_football: Any decision regarding points awarded for abandoned games is left to the individual football associations.
association_football: Honeyball considered women's involvement in football as part of the emancipation movement.
association_football: Depending on the format of the competition, an equal number of goals scored may result in a draw being declared with 1 point awarded to each team, or the game may go into extra time or a penalty shoot-out.
association_football: of Preston, England.
association_football: Teams are put into tables, placed in order according to points accrued.
association_football: FIFA, the international football body, was formed in Paris in 1904 and declared that they would adhere to the Laws of the Game of the Football Association.
association_football: Where aggregates are equal, the away goals rule may be used to determine the winners, in which case the winner is the team that scored the most goals in the leg they played away from home.
association_football: While FIFA is responsible for organising international competitions and enforcing most international regulations, the Laws of the Game are set by the IFAB, where each of the four UK associations holds one vote and FIFA collectively holds four votes.
association_football: Competition rules may state a minimum number of players required to constitute a team, which is usually seven.
association_football: The length of the pitch, or field, for international adult matches is in the range of 100–110 m (110–120 yd) and the width is in the range of 64–75 m (70–80 yd).
association_football: In the Old World (Africa, Asia and Europe), it is common for each team to play every other team in its league at home and away in each season, in a round-robin tournament.
association_football: In 1862, John Charles Thring of Uppingham School also devised an influential set of rules.
association_football: Teams that forfeit a game or are forfeited against are awarded a technical loss or win.
association_football: However, the women's game was frowned upon by the British football associations and continued without their support.
association_football: During the 1850s, many clubs unconnected to schools or universities were formed throughout the English-speaking world to play various forms of football.
association_football: Nets are usually placed behind the goal, but are not required by the Laws.
association_football: Each half runs continuously, meaning that the clock is not stopped when the ball is out of play.
association_football: In the second half of the century, the European Cup and the Copa Libertadores were created, and the champions of these two club competitions would contest the Intercontinental Cup to prove which team was the best in the world.
association_football: From the beginning of each playing period with a kick-off until the end of the playing period, the ball is in play at all times, except when either the ball leaves the field of play, or play is stopped by the referee.
association_football: These ongoing efforts contributed to the formation of the Football Association (the FA) in 1863, which first met on the morning of 26 October 1863 at the Freemasons' Tavern in Great Queen Street, London.
association_football: The most successful team of the era was Dick, Kerr Ladies F.C.
association_football: A women's tournament was added in 1996; in contrast to the men's event, full international sides without age restrictions play the women's Olympic tournament.
association_football: The Laws of the Game are determined by the International Football Association Board (IFAB).
association_football: Early alternative spellings included socca and socker.
association_football: Kemari originated after the year 600 during the Asuka period.
association_football: Among other administrative sanctions are penalties against game forfeiture.
association_football: The layout of a team's players is known as a formation.
association_football: Soccer in the United States, etc.) are responsible for managing the game in their own countries both professionally and at an amateur level, and coordinating competitions in accordance with the Laws of the Game.
association_football: National associations (e.g.
association_football: Only the goalkeepers may use their hands and arms, but only within their own penalty area.
association_football: Breaks could take place at the referee's discretion after the 30th minute of each half if the wet-bulb globe temperature exceeded 32 °C (90 °F); the breaks would last 3 minutes, with this time made up by an extended period of stoppage time at the end of the half.
association_football: For example, the English Football League deduct 12 points from any team that enters financial administration.
association_football: The laws are often framed in broad terms, which allow flexibility in their application depending on the nature of the game.
association_football: Also in 1971, UEFA members voted to officially recognise women's football, while the Football Association rescinded the ban that prohibited women from playing on association members' pitches in England.
association_football: As with pre-codified mob football, the antecedent of all modern football codes, these medieval games involved more handling of the ball than kicking it.
association_football: Players are forbidden to wear or use anything that is dangerous to themselves or another player, such as jewellery or watches.
association_football: Informal matches between Scotland and England are reported to have taken place in 1881, but are not officially recognised by the respective football associations.
association_football: Handling the ball deliberately, tripping an opponent, or pushing an opponent, are examples of "penal fouls", punishable by a direct free kick or penalty kick depending on where the offence occurred.
association_football: The Brazilian Série A ("Brasileirão") uses a single-season double round-robin format to determine the champion, similar to most European leagues, although it is played from April or May to December.
association_football: The UEFA Nations League and the CONCACAF Nations League were introduced in the late 2010s to replace international friendlies during the two-year cycle between major tournaments.
association_football: A goal may be scored directly from a direct free kick.
association_football: Women's football has been an Olympic event since 1996.
association_football: After a first phase using points in a round-robin tournament, these leagues usually have a knockout phase, with a final deciding the champion of each Apertura and Clausura tournament.
association_football: The term soccer comes from Oxford "-er" slang, which was prevalent at the University of Oxford in England from about 1875, and is thought to have been borrowed from the slang of Rugby School.
association_football: The basic equipment or kit players are required to wear includes a shirt, shorts, socks, footwear and adequate shin guards.
association_football: Between 1948 and 1980, 23 out of 27 Olympic medals were won by Eastern Europe, with only Sweden (gold in 1948 and bronze in 1952), Denmark (bronze in 1948 and silver in 1960) and Japan (bronze in 1968) breaking their dominance.
association_football: Eleven clubs, under the charge of FA secretary Ebenezer Cobb Morley, ratified the original thirteen laws of the game.
association_football: At a professional level, most matches produce only a few goals.
association_football: The signalled stoppage time may be further extended by the referee.
association_football: The Laws of the Game do not specify any player positions other than goalkeeper, but a number of specialised roles have evolved.
association_football: During gameplay, players attempt to create goal-scoring opportunities through individual control of the ball, such as by dribbling, passing the ball to a teammate, and by taking shots at the goal, which is guarded by the opposing goalkeeper.
association_football: A game tied at the end of regulation time may go into extra time, which consists of two further 15-minute periods.
association_football: There are seventeen laws in the official Laws of the Game, each containing a collection of stipulations and guidelines.
association_football: Phaininda, episkyros and harpastum were played involving hands and violence.
association_football: In the early 20th century, women's football in the United Kingdom was mostly associated with charity matches.
association_football: A notable exception is New Zealand, where in the first two decades of the 21st century, under the influence of international television, "football" has been gaining prevalence, despite the dominance of other types of football, namely rugby union and rugby league.
association_football: These competitions are not strictly limited to members of the continental confederations, with guest teams from other continents sometimes invited to compete.
association_football: The game is played using a spherical ball of 68–70 cm (27–28 in) circumference, known as the football (or soccer ball).
association_football: These leagues also generated a combined €17.2 billion in revenue in the 2021–22 season from television contracts, matchday tickets, sponsorships, and other sources.
association_football: Women's football became popular on a large scale at the time of the First World War, when female employment in heavy industry spurred the growth of the game, much as it had done for men decades earlier.
association_football: In many parts of the world, football evokes great passions and plays an important role in the life of individual fans, local communities, and even nations.
association_football: By contrast, football is widely considered to have been the final proximate cause for the Football War in June 1969 between El Salvador and Honduras.
association_football: The most prestigious senior international competition is the FIFA World Cup.
association_football: In 2008, the IFAB initially approved a fixed size of 105 m (115 yd) long and 68 m (74 yd) wide as a standard pitch dimension for international matches; however, this decision was later put on hold and was never actually implemented.
association_football: Stoppage time does not fully compensate for the time in which the ball is out of play, and a 90-minute game typically involves about an hour of "effective playing time".
association_football: The laws included bans on running with the ball in hand and hacking (kicking an opponent in the shins), tripping and holding.
association_football: In the past the ball was made up of leather panels sewn together, with a latex bladder for pressurisation, but modern balls at all levels of the game are now synthetic.
association_football: In addition to the seventeen laws, numerous IFAB decisions and other directives contribute to the regulation of association football.
association_football: During the Han dynasty (206 BCE – 220 CE), cuju games were standardised and rules were established.
association_football: The sport also exacerbated tensions at the beginning of the Croatian War of Independence of the 1990s, when a match between Dinamo Zagreb and Red Star Belgrade degenerated into rioting in May 1990.
association_football: Ryszard Kapuściński says that Europeans who are polite, modest, or humble fall easily into rage when playing or watching football games.
association_football: Although players usually use their feet to move the ball around, they may use any part of their body (notably, "heading" with the forehead) other than their hands or arms.
association_football: However, Brazil has never used an Apertura and Clausura system in its national tournament, instead employing various formats with play-offs until 2002.
association_football: Alcock, and has been contested by English teams since 1872.
association_football: This added time is called "additional time" in FIFA documents, but is most commonly referred to as stoppage time or injury time, while lost time can also be used as a synonym.
association_football: The objective of the game is to score more goals than the opposing team by moving the ball beyond the goal line into a rectangular-framed goal defended by the opponent.
association_football: Trailing 1–0 with two minutes remaining, Stoke were awarded a penalty kick.
association_football: Some associations allow for appeals against player suspensions incurred on-field if clubs feel a referee was incorrect or unduly harsh.
association_football: Dropped-ball: occurs when the referee has stopped play for any other reason, such as a serious injury to a player, interference by an external party, or a ball becoming defective.
association_football: Women's football also faced bans in several other countries, notably in Brazil from 1941 to 1979, in France from 1941 to 1970, and in West Germany from 1955 to 1970.
association_football: Originally, the tournament was for amateurs only.
association_football: Fields for non-international matches may be 90–120 m (100–130 yd) in length and 45–90 m (50–100 yd) in width, provided the pitch does not become square.
association_football: The majority of the Latin American leagues (including Liga MX from Mexico and Liga Profesional de Fútbol from Argentina) divide football championships into two sections named Apertura and Clausura (Spanish for Opening and Closing), awarding a champion for each.
association_football: Penalty kick: awarded to the fouled team following a foul usually punishable by a direct free kick but that has occurred within their opponent's penalty area.
association_football: This competition has taken place every four years since 1930, with the exception of the 1942 and 1946 tournaments, which were cancelled because of World War II.
association_football: Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) (in English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, German, Italian, Arabic, Japanese, Korean, and Indonesian)
International Football Association Board (IFAB) (in English, French, Spanish, and German)
Association football at the Encyclopædia Britannica
association_football: The inner edges of the vertical goal posts must be 7.32 m (24 ft) apart, and the lower edge of the horizontal crossbar supported by the goal posts must be 2.44 m (8 ft) above the ground.
association_football: Traditionally, the game has been played over two 45-minute halves, for a total match time of 90 minutes.
association_football: The FIFA Women's World Cup has been held every four years since 1991.
association_football: The tournament was discontinued following the 2017 edition, with its calendar slot replaced by an expanded FIFA Club World Cup.
association_football: In the case of international club competition, it is the country of origin of the clubs involved, not the nationalities of their players, that renders the competition international in nature.
association_football: The fourth official then informs the players and spectators by holding up a board showing this number.
association_football: The same laws are designed to apply to all levels of football for both sexes, although certain modifications for groups such as juniors, seniors and people with physical disabilities are permitted.
association_football: The Italian women's football league was established in 1968.
association_football: Defining the team's formation and tactics is usually the prerogative of the team's manager.
association_football: Europe and Asia come second and third in terms of international success, and the women's game has been improving in South America.
association_football: In England, the first recorded game of football between women took place in 1895.
association_football: Within normal play, all players are free to play the ball in any direction and move throughout the pitch, though players may not pass to teammates who are in an offside position.
association_football: For example, there are central defenders and left and right midfielders.
association_football: The referee's decision in all on-pitch matters is considered final.
association_football: The only school to be represented on this occasion was Charterhouse.
association_football: They were not universally adopted.
association_football: As of 2022, over 200 national teams compete in qualifying tournaments within the scope of continental confederations for a place in the finals.
association_football: The best-documented early European team was founded by activist Nettie Honeyball in England in 1894: the British Ladies' Football Club.
association_football: In competitions using two-legged matches, each team competes at home once, with an aggregate score from the two matches deciding which team progresses.
association_football: It has been suggested that this was motivated by a perceived threat to the "masculinity" of the game.
association_football: Sanctions for such infractions may be levied on individuals or on clubs as a whole.
association_football: The Chinese competitive game cuju (蹴鞠, literally "kickball"; also known as tsu chu) resembles modern association football as well as a mix of basketball and volleyball.
association_football: It was then passed to a designated player, who attempted to kick it through the fengliu yan, a circular goal atop 10–11 meter poles.
association_football: The word "association" in this term refers to the Football Association (the FA), founded in London in 1863, which published the first set of rules for the sport that same year.
association_football: Some came up with their own distinct codes of rules, most notably the Sheffield Football Club, formed by former public school pupils in 1857, which led to the formation of a Sheffield FA in 1867.
association_football: Indirect free kick: awarded to the opposing team following "non-penal" fouls, certain technical infringements, or when play is stopped to caution or dismiss an opponent without a specific foul having occurred.
association_football: Other markings define the position of the ball or players at kick-offs, goal kicks, penalty kicks and corner kicks.
association_football: With an estimated 250 million players active in over 200 countries and territories, it is the world's most popular sport.
association_football: Some exceptions to this system occur in the New World (Americas) and Australia:
association_football: This is known as "playing an advantage".
association_football: The Sheffield FA played by its own rules until the 1870s, with the FA absorbing some of its rules until there was little difference between the games.
association_football: Corner kick: when the ball has wholly crossed the goal line without a goal having been scored and having last been touched by a player of the defending team; awarded to attacking team.
association_football: This is the earliest form of a kicking game for which there is historical evidence.
association_football: Meanwhile, football has improved in Africa, Asia, and North America, and nowadays, these regions are at least on equal grounds with South America in club football.
association_football: There is no single system of competitions, and each national league organises them according to its own traditions.
association_football: Women's association football has historically seen opposition, with national associations severely curbing its development and several outlawing it completely.
association_football: It was a ceremonial rather than a competitive game, and involved the kicking of a mari, a ball made of animal skin.
association_football: For the 1984 Los Angeles Games, the IOC allowed professional players to compete.
association_football: In the 2022–23 season, clubs in Europe's "big five" leagues had an aggregate wage cost of €13 billion, with each league spending more than €1.8 billion in wages.
association_football: The 1958 World Cup saw the emergence of Pelé as a global sporting star, a period that coincided with "the explosive spread of television, which massively amplified his presence everywhere".
association_football: The world's oldest football competition is the FA Cup, which was founded by the footballer and cricketer Charles W.
association_football: The Finalissima was revived in 2022, and is contested between the Copa América and European Championship winners.
association_football: The World Cup has been held every four years since; by 2019, it had expanded to 24 national teams, and 1.12 billion viewers watched the competition.
association_football: The major international competition in football and the most prestigious is the World Cup, organised by FIFA.
association_football: Villa's goalkeeper deliberately kicked the ball far out of play; by the time it was recovered, the clock had run out and the game was over, leaving Stoke unable to attempt the penalty.
association_football: Major League Soccer in the United States and Canada uses a closed league system (without promotion and relegation) and a conference system, similar to that used in other sports leagues in both countries.
association_football: The number of players in each position determines the style of the team's play; more forwards and fewer defenders creates a more aggressive and offensive-minded game, while the reverse creates a slower, more defensive style of play.
association_football: The maximum number of substitutions permitted in most competitive international and domestic league games is five in 90 minutes, with each team being allowed one more if the game should go into extra-time; the permitted number may vary in other competitions or in friendly matches.
association_football: They all appear to have resembled rugby football, wrestling, and volleyball more than what is recognisable as modern football.
association_football: Most competitions enforce mandatory suspensions for players who are sent off in a game.
association_football: The same rule also states that the duration of either half is extended until a penalty kick to be taken or retaken is completed; thus, no game can end with an uncompleted penalty.
association_football: Added time was introduced because of an incident in 1891 during a match between Stoke and Aston Villa.
association_football: Football is generally a free-flowing game, with play stopping only when the ball has left the field of play or when play is stopped by the referee for an infringement of the rules.
association_football: 375–400 BCE in the National Archaeological Museum of Athens appears on the UEFA European Championship trophy.
association_football: In matches where a fourth official is appointed, towards the end of the half, the referee signals how many minutes of stoppage time they intend to add.
association_football: After a stoppage, play recommences with a specified restart.
association_football: The Laws now express dimensions with approximate metric equivalents (followed by traditional units in brackets), though use of imperial units remains popular in English-speaking countries with a relatively recent history of metrication (or only partial metrication), such as Britain.
association_football: In some countries, such as Uruguay, the winners of the Apertura and Clausura play each other in a play-off for the season title.
association_football: International competitions in association football principally consist of two varieties: competitions involving representative national teams or those involving clubs based in multiple nations and national leagues.
association_football: After the World Cup, the most important international football competitions are the continental championships, which are organised by each continental confederation and contested between national teams.
association_football: When the ball is in play, the players mainly use their feet, but may also use any other part of their body, except for their hands or arms, to control, strike, or pass the ball; the head, chest, and thighs are commonly used.
association_football: For example, the 2022–23 season of the English Premier League produced an average of 2.85 goals per match.
association_football: A very large number of people also play football at an amateur level.
association_football: The modern rules of association football are based on the mid-19th century efforts to standardise the widely varying forms of football played in the public schools of England.
association_football: The first official international football match also took place in 1872, between Scotland and England in Glasgow, again at the instigation of Alcock.
association_football: Four years later, FIFA targeted the 32-team 2023 Women's World Cup at an audience of 2 billion, while more than 1.5 million tickets were sold, setting a Women's World Cup record.
association_football: Before the inception of the World Cup, the Olympics (especially during the 1920s) were the most prestigious international event.
association_football: The top few teams may be promoted to a higher division, and one or more of the teams finishing at the bottom are relegated to a lower division.
association_football: The Silk Road facilitated the transmission of cuju outside of China, especially the form of the game popular in the Tang dynasty, the period when the inflatable ball was invented and replaced the stuffed ball.
association_football: These include the domestic cup, which may be open to all eligible teams in a country's league system—both professional and amateur—and is organised by the national federation.
association_football: A player given a yellow card is said to have been "booked", the referee writing the player's name in their official notebook.
association_football: The Laws of the Game are published by FIFA, but are maintained by the IFAB.
association_football: The final of the men's Champions League is the most-watched annual sporting event in the world.
association_football: In December 1969, the Women's Football Association was formed in England, with the sport eventually becoming the most prominent team sport for women in the United Kingdom.
association_football: The game was first recorded as in exercise in the Zhan Guo Ce, a military history from the Han dynasty.
association_football: Other East Asian games include kemari in Japan and chuk-guk in Korea, both influenced by cuju.
association_football: Two unofficial women's World Cups were organised by the FIEFF in 1970 and in 1971.
association_football: In particular, the offence of "unsporting behaviour" may be used to deal with most events that violate the spirit of the game, even if they are not listed as specific offences.
association_football: Brazilian clubs also participate in state leagues from January to April, and at least one state league, the Campeonato Carioca in Rio de Janeiro, had a split season format until 2020.
association_football: The teams finishing at the top of a country's league may also be eligible to play in international club competitions in the following season.
association_football: Kick-off: following a goal by the opposing team, or to begin each period of play.
association_football: A rectangular goal is positioned on each goal line, midway between the two touchlines.
association_football: In the 21st century, South America has continued to produce some of the best footballers in the world, but its clubs have fallen behind the still dominant European clubs, which often sign the best players from Latin America and elsewhere.
association_football: As the Laws were formulated in England, and were initially administered solely by the four British football associations within IFAB, the standard dimensions of a football pitch were originally expressed in imperial units.
association_football: Within the United States, Major League Soccer used a distinct ruleset during the 1990s, and the NFHS and NCAA still use rulesets that are comparable to, but different from, the IFAB Laws.
association_football: The most prestigious competitions in club football are the respective continental championships, which are generally contested between national champions, for example, the UEFA Champions League in Europe and the Copa Libertadores in South America.
association_football: The first women's match recorded by the Scottish Football Association took place in 1892 in Glasgow.
association_football: The original format contained 12 clubs from the Midlands and Northern England.
association_football: In each conference, clubs play a round-robin schedule during the regular season, and those with the most points qualify for the play-offs, which conclude with a final to determine the champion.
association_football: The primary law is that players other than goalkeepers may not deliberately handle the ball with their hands or arms during play, though they must use both their hands during a throw-in restart.
association_football: Under FIFA, there are six continental confederations: AFC, CAF, CONCACAF, CONMEBOL, OFC, and UEFA.
association_football: Athenaeus, writing in 228 CE, mentions the Roman ball game harpastum.
association_football: Football has the highest global television audience in sport.
association_football: This area is marked by the goal line, two lines starting on the goal line 16.5 m (18 yd) from the goalposts and extending 16.5 m (18 yd) into the pitch perpendicular to the goal line, and a line joining them.
association_football: The referee is the official timekeeper for the match, and may make an allowance for time lost through substitutions, injured players requiring attention, or other stoppages.
association_football: In standard adult matches, a player who has been substituted may not take further part in a match.
association_football: Association football is played in accordance with the Laws of the Game, a set of rules that has been in effect since 1863 and maintained by the International Football Association Board (IFAB) since 1886.
association_football: Video assistant referees (VAR) have also been increasingly introduced in high-level matches to assist officials through video replays to correct clear and obvious mistakes.
association_football: The Cambridge rules were written at Trinity College, Cambridge, at a meeting attended by representatives from Eton, Harrow, Rugby, Winchester, and Shrewsbury schools.
association_football: According to a survey conducted by FIFA published in 2001, over 240 million people from more than 200 countries regularly play football.
association_football: Penalties may include fines, point deductions (in league competitions) or even expulsion from competitions.
association_football: FIFA has stated that soccer originated in Britain, starting around the eighth century, and that no historical connection exists with any game played in antiquity outside Europe.
association_football: Some on-field incidents, if considered very serious (such as allegations of racial abuse), may result in competitions deciding to impose heavier sanctions than those normally associated with a red card.
association_football: The 1863 FA rules included handling of the ball by "marks" and the lack of a crossbar, making the game remarkably similar to Victorian rules football, which was being developed around the same time in Australia.
association_football: Throw-in: when the ball has crossed the touchline; awarded to the opposing team to that which last touched the ball.
association_football: Two teams of eleven players each compete to get the ball into the other team's goal (between the posts and under the bar), thereby scoring a goal.
association_football: The World Cup is the world's most widely viewed and most followed sporting event, with the 2022 tournament estimated to be watched by 5 billion people, more than 60% of the global population.
