asthma: More than two acute episodes of asthma symptoms or at least one episode of wheezing with asthma symptoms in between episodes.
asthma: Medications for asthma are generally divided into three categories, controllers — taken daily to control symptoms, reduce exacerbations and decrease inflammation — relievers — taken as needed for severe symptoms or exacerbations — and additional medications added on to manage more severe asthma.
asthma: Over time, the mortality rate of asthma has gone down and it is now considered a rare cause of death.
asthma: Triggers for asthma exacerbations include viral respiratory infections, exposure to allergens, food allergies, outdoor air pollution, season changes or back to school season in the fall, lack of adherence to inhaled corticosteroids, and epidemics of severe asthma exacerbations in a community.
asthma: Factors during pregnancy that have been linked to the development of asthma include weight gain or obesity in the mother, stressful pregnancy, smoking while pregnant, the use of certain medications while pregnant and caesarean section.
asthma: Variable expiratory airflow in asthma refers to fluctuations in lung function over time.
asthma: When exacerbations are severe or do not subside with inhaled medications, oral corticosteroids are used and continued for a week after the exacerbation.
asthma: Finally, oral corticosteroids or bronchial thermoplasty may be used as last resorts for severe asthma.
asthma: It measures disease burden through years of life lost due to premature death (YLL) and years lived with disability (YLD).
asthma: Asthma is more common in the young than in adults.
asthma: The prevalence of asthma was also over 1.5 times higher in Americans 100% below the poverty level than those 450% of the poverty level or higher.
asthma: In children younger than five, higher doses of ICS are used to treat persistent symptoms while older individuals may be treated with an additional medication.
asthma: Exposure to asthmagens, allergens and substances that are known to cause asthma; the amount and length of time that an individual was exposed to the substance; genetics; allergies; and smoking can affect the development of occupational asthma.
asthma: Lack of alternative explanation for symptoms.
asthma: For older adults the differential diagnoses include medication-related cough, heart failure, lung embolism, interstitial lung disease, central airway obstruction, COPD, bronchitis, gastrointestinal reflux disease, recurrent respiratory infections, heart disease, and vocal cord dysfunction.
asthma: In 2008, the estimated costs of asthma were between $49.36 million and $8,256 million in several high-income countries, including Canada, Germany, Singapore, Switzerland, and the United States.
asthma: Inhaled corticosteroids and selective short-acting beta agonists came into wide use in the 1960s.
asthma: Brittle asthma is a kind of asthma distinguishable by recurrent, severe attacks.
asthma: Persistent symptoms are treated with increasing doses of ICS and an LTRA.
asthma: The first line treatment of asthma for children are ICS, for teenagers and adults guidelines recommend a combined ICS and long-acting beta2 agonist (LABA) inhaler.
asthma: Historically asthma was classified as being caused by external factors (extrinsic) such as allergens or by internal factors (intrinsic), unrelated to allergies.
asthma: Early childhood exposure to secondhand smoke, high levels of stress in parents, respiratory infections, and indoor mold or fungi have also been associated with asthma development.
asthma: Asthma control should be reviewed during doctors appointments so that treatment can be adjusted accordingly.
asthma: YLD reflects both the severity of disability and how long it lasts.
asthma: Oxygen therapy is also used to maintain a healthy oxygen saturation.
asthma: They may also have reduced lung function and are more likely to continue experiencing troublesome respiratory symptoms as they enter adulthood.
asthma: As these psychoanalysts interpreted the asthmatic wheeze as the suppressed cry of the child for its mother, they considered the treatment of depression to be especially important for individuals with asthma.
asthma: Genetic correlation analyses demonstrate substantial overlap between asthma and other atopic disorders such as eczema and allergic rhinitis, as well as with lung function traits.
asthma: Diagnosis is usually based on the pattern of symptoms, response to therapy over time, and spirometry lung function testing.
asthma: Environmental factors can also trigger asthma symptoms.
asthma: Currently asthma is most commonly classified according to severity, control of symptoms, phenotypes and endotypes.
asthma: Occupational asthma can be further split into separate phenotypes, irritant-induced asthma — caused by exposure to airway irritants such as cleaning products and dust — and sensitizer-induced occupational asthma — developed hypersensitivity.
asthma: There is increased tissue and matrix buildup in the airway wall, along with more small blood vessels and nerve fibers.
asthma: All three of the following criteria must be met:
asthma: It is more common in developed than developing countries.
asthma: Asthma is a common long-term inflammatory disease of the airways.
asthma: A sudden worsening of asthma symptoms sometimes called an asthma attack or an asthma exacerbation can occur when allergens, pollen, dust, or other particles are inhaled into the lungs, causing the bronchioles to constrict and produce mucus, which then restricts oxygen flow to the alveoli.
asthma: 450 BC, with the Greek word for "panting" forming the basis of our modern name.
asthma: In 200 BC, it was believed to be at least partly related to the emotions.
asthma: Medical guidelines recommend referring people who have persistent symptoms despite adequate treatment to an asthma specialist (usually a respirologist or allergist).
asthma: However, the financial impact is greatest among people with severe or poorly controlled asthma.
asthma: In moderate exacerbations, oxygen desaturation is mild, there is no use of auxiliary respiratory muscles, and there is a 50% or lower decrease in PEF.
asthma: Many asthma-associated variants act within regulatory elements, with effects that are highly cell-type specific and modulated by environmental exposures such as allergens, air pollution, and respiratory infections.
asthma: For those with occupational asthma, it is recommended that sensitizers and allergens at work be avoided.
asthma: Daily changes greater than 10% may suggest asthma.
asthma: However, isoprenaline was an effective bronchodilator that was more selective than epinephrine.
asthma: Specifically, it allowed for the development of selective β2-agonists starting in the 1960s.
asthma: Prenatal or childhood exposure to cigarette smoke increases the likelihood of a child developing asthma.
asthma: In 1958, the association between a treatment strategy of OCS and a reduction in eosinophils in the sputum was published.
asthma: Irritant-induced asthma is a type-2 low phenotype while sensitizer-induced occupational asthma is a type-2 high phenotype.
asthma: If FeNO or eosinophils are not elevated then they recommend testing bronchodilator reversibility (BDR) with spirometry or peak expiratory flow (PEF) if spirometry is not available.
asthma: Most asthma-related deaths occur in low- and lower-middle-income countries.
asthma: The β2 adrenergic receptors were found to be dominant in the lungs as well as present in the alveolar airspace.
asthma: Respiratory tract infections, especially during early childhood or if they are severe and recurring can lead to decreased lung function and subsequent asthma.
asthma: It typically takes one or two weeks for symptoms to improve after starting inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and the response to medication is monitored whenever it is adjusted.
asthma: The word asthma is from the Greek ἆσθμα (âsthma), which means 'panting'.
asthma: An increase of FEV1 after taking asthma medication is indicative of asthma.
asthma: Other proposed preventative measures such as dietary changes, breastfeeding, supplements, and early exposure to pets or other common allergens do not currently have enough evidence to support their effectiveness.
asthma: Children who experience recurring asthma symptoms are more likely to develop airway inflammation and structural changes in the lungs.
asthma: In 1873, one of the first papers in modern medicine on the subject tried to explain the pathophysiology of the disease while another in 1872, concluded that asthma can be cured by rubbing the chest with chloroform liniment.
asthma: Both isoprenaline and adrenaline are catecholamines.
asthma: If spirometry is not available then peak expiratory flow can be used to show variable lung function.
asthma: Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) guidelines for children above five years of age and adults suggest confirming variable expiratory airflow in those who have symptoms suggestive of asthma.
asthma: Young children commonly experience asthma symptoms following viral infections, however only around half go on to develop asthma.
asthma: DPIs are difficult for children to use and are therefore discouraged in those under six years of age.
asthma: Roosevelt's youth was in large part shaped by his poor health, partly related to his asthma.
asthma: During the 1930s to 1950s, asthma was known as one of the "holy seven" psychosomatic illnesses.
asthma: Additionally, residents of areas that were more likely to be redlined have asthma emergency department visit rates 2.4 times higher than residents of areas that were less likely to be redlined.
asthma: Adult-onset asthma is caused by relations between genetics, lifestyle factors such as obesity and smoking, and environmental factors such as an urban or rural environment, occupational exposures, and air pollution.
asthma: A phenotype is the way in which a condition presents itself, such as when the disease first starts to affect a person and what symptoms an individual displays.
asthma: Problems accessing the treatment and problems administering the treatment effectively can also result in lower adherence.
asthma: Type-2 high is characterized by increased eosinophils, increased Fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), or allergens.
asthma: Asthma rarely presents with physical findings on examination unless the person is symptomatic.
asthma: However, a positive result does not always confirm asthma, so symptoms and other clinical findings must also be considered.
asthma: Nicotine is believed to be the cause of these effects and nicotine is linked to changes in DNA.
asthma: Signs occurring during an asthma exacerbation include the use of accessory muscles of respiration (sternocleidomastoid and scalene muscles), chest retractions with breathing, blue colour of the skin and nails, increased heart rate and changes in respiratory sounds.
asthma: There is less information available from low- and middle-income countries.
asthma: Asthma is thought to be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors.
asthma: Conversely, there has been research suggesting that certain infections during childhood may lessen the risk of developing asthma.
asthma: If symptoms clear up during the trial then medication can be stopped and symptoms are monitored in the following months to watch for returning symptoms or exacerbation, in which case ICS and SABA can be started again.
asthma: The asthma was relieved with this treatment by what was described as "vasomotor ataxia of the relaxing variety".
asthma: In 1967, adrenergic receptors were classified into the two subtypes of the β1 and the β2 adrenergic receptors.
asthma: This hyperresponsiveness alongside inflammation affects the nerves in the airways — making them more sensitive — and causes the body to produce too much mucus.
asthma: Guidelines for children ages five to sixteen are similar to the adult guidelines aside from recommendations surrounding blood eosinophil count.
asthma: School based education programs on how to manage asthma decrease hospitalizations for asthma in school-aged children.
asthma: Airway inflammation is consistent across everyone with asthma, regardless of symptoms.
asthma: The choice of medication used for asthma management depends on symptom control, risk factors, availability, adherence, ability to use the medication, cost and environmental impact.
asthma: Despite asthma being more prevalent in children, mortality rates, morbidity, and usage of healthcare is higher amongst adults.
asthma: The two endotypes are distinguished based on the type of inflammation present, with the type-2 high endotype involving the type 2 immune system response and type-2 low involving type 1 immune system response.
asthma: It was the 34th leading cause of disease burden globally and accounted for about one-fifth of all DALYs related to chronic respiratory diseases.
asthma: Traditional Chinese medicine also offered medication for asthma, as indicated by a surviving 14th-century manuscript curated by the Wellcome Foundation.
asthma: Outdoor air pollution includes nitrogen dioxide and traffic pollution while indoor air pollution includes biomass, pesticides, building materials such as asbestos and formaldehyde, mold, dust mites, cockroaches, and endotoxins.
asthma: This is done by evaluating asthma control and the risk of exacerbation, providing education and guidance on how to manage the disease, finding triggers and ways to minimize them, and medication.
asthma: Guidelines also recommend that everyone diagnosed with asthma have access to a reliever inhaler in case of symptom flare ups.
asthma: In those who are affected by allergies, exposure to allergens can trigger asthma symptoms.
asthma: Low doses of ICS for maintenance and SABA as needed are used to manage asthma in children ages six to eleven, with ICS used whenever SABA are needed to treat flare-ups.
asthma: Asthma is most commonly divided into two endotypes, T2-high and T2-low (non-T2).
asthma: This narrowing leads to variable airflow restriction and asthma symptoms.
asthma: Many of the potential differential diagnoses for asthma commonly co-occur with asthma as well.
asthma: Medications are prescribed at the lowest dose possible while still treating symptoms and preventing exacerbations.
asthma: This theory is known as the "hygiene hypothesis".
asthma: Spacers are used alongside pMDIs to increase the amount of medication inhaled.
asthma: In very severe cases, intravenous corticosteroids and hospitalization may be required.
asthma: Consistent with this architecture, polygenic risk scores (PRS) derived from multi-ancestry GWAS can stratify individuals by asthma risk, with higher predictive performance for childhood-onset than adult-onset disease.
asthma: GINA guidelines recommend testing how fast a person can breathe out (peak expiratory flow) twice a day for two weeks.
asthma: Response to asthma medication during acute wheezing episodes.
asthma: Severity can only be measured once the disorder is under control.
asthma: Asthma also places a major economic burden on society.
asthma: Over 400 occupational exposure have been linked to asthma.
asthma: Comorbid medical conditions are more common in severe asthma and can affect the disease severity, symptoms and treatment.
asthma: Guidelines encourage those with asthma to maintain a balanced and healthy diet due to benefits on overall wellbeing.
asthma: The disease manifests when those with a genetic susceptibility to asthma are exposed to specific environmental factors.
asthma: The efficacy of anecdotal applications of oral corticosteroids (OCS) for the asthma was published in 1952.
asthma: For children ages five to sixteen NICE guidelines do not recommend blood eosinophil count as an initial test, but instead they recommend measuring blood eosinophil count, skin prick testing for dust mites, or total IgE levels if respiratory testing is inconclusive.
asthma: Pulmonary rehabilitation may be used to increase tolerance to exercise.
asthma: Asthma is classified according to the amount of medication required to control symptoms or mechanisms underlying the condition.
asthma: Variation in lung function can be shown by spirometry testing, peak expiratory flow, or bronchial provocation testing.
asthma: Alternative treatments such as acupuncture, air ionizers, manual therapies (osteopathic, chiropractic, physiotherapeutic and respiratory therapeutic manoeuvres), and breathing exercises are not recommended by clinical guidelines due to a lack of evidence that they are effective.
asthma: The diagnosis cannot be made based on a single test and is instead made based on a combination of symptoms and respiratory function testing.
asthma: As of 2021, the mortality rate for black Americans with asthma was two times higher than for white Americans.
asthma: The phenotypes included under the type-2 high endotype include early-onset allergic asthma, late-onset eosinophilic asthma, and Aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease.
asthma: The main difference between the two disorders is that in asthma expiratory airflow fluctuates over time while in COPD airflow obstruction is chronic and often increases in severity over time.
asthma: In those with sensitization to aeroallergens, allergen-specific immunotherapy can increase tolerance to allergens by slowly introducing the allergen to an affected person.
asthma: Individuals in the highest PRS percentiles show several-fold increased odds of childhood asthma, and PRS analyses have helped delineate heterogeneity across asthma–COPD overlap and related comorbid traits, although clinical implementation remains investigational.
asthma: In 2023, approximately 363 million people worldwide were affected by asthma, and 442,000 people died from the disease.
asthma: During severe exacerbations, the person experiencing symptoms becomes restless and may struggle to speak; oxygen saturation drops and there is above a 50% decrease in PEF.
asthma: For adults, NICE guidelines recommend testing fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) and blood eosinophils as a first step.
asthma: If asthma symptoms and exacerbations persist despite two to three months of treatment with ICS factors such as inhaler technique, adherence, exposure to triggers, comorbidities, and alternative diagnoses are assessed before medication dosage is increased.
asthma: Other potential triggers include medications such as aspirin and beta blockers.
asthma: Allergens also play a role in the development of adult-onset asthma.
asthma: Obesity can cause asthma symptoms to be harder to control or cause more severe symptoms, weight loss in obese individuals is therefore recommended.
asthma: Symptoms can be prevented by avoiding triggers, such as allergens and respiratory irritants, and suppressed with the use of inhaled corticosteroids.
asthma: Respiratory tests such as spirometry, bronchodilator reversibility (BDR) testing, and measuring changes in breathing flow over time (peak flow variability) are included in all major asthma guidelines.
asthma: In children under the age of five who have comorbid atopic disorders and intermittent asthma symptoms or severe flare-ups a 8-12 week trial of low dose ICS as maintenance treatment and a SABA for flare-ups is recommended by NICE guidelines.
asthma: In the 1940s, the first pure β-agonist to be synthesized was isoprenaline.
asthma: However, exposure to urbanization alone has not been able to explain these disparities.
asthma: There is no known cure for asthma, but it can be controlled.
asthma: For those over the age of twelve, if asthma is not well controlled with an ICS/formoterol inhaler then guidelines recommend that medications be taken daily instead of on an as needed basis and gradually increased until symptoms are controlled.
asthma: The use of a pressurized metered dose inhaler was developed in the mid-1950s for the administration of adrenaline as well as isoproterenol, and was later used as a beta2-adrenergic agonist.
asthma: The chromosome region 17q12–21 remains the most robustly replicated asthma locus, with effects strongest for childhood-onset disease.
asthma: In the 12th century, the Jewish physician and philosopher Maimonides wrote Maqāla fī al-Rabw ("Treatise on Asthma") in Arabic.
asthma: Treatment of asthma exacerbations involves several doses of bronchodilators, oral corticosteroids, and oxygen supplementation.
asthma: Treatment of rapidly worsening symptoms is usually with an inhaled short-acting beta2 agonist such as salbutamol, corticosteroids taken by mouth, and oxygen therapy.
asthma: Rates vary between countries, with prevalences between 1 and 29%.
asthma: Classification of asthma control does not depend on medication usage like severity does, however they often assess similar factors.
asthma: During the test, substances such as inhaled methacholine, histamine, or inhaled mannitol as well as exercise and controlled rapid breathing are used to try to trigger airway narrowing.
asthma: Symptoms include episodes of wheezing, coughing, chest tightness, and shortness of breath.
asthma: In 2023, asthma affected an estimated 363 million people worldwide and caused 442,000 deaths.
asthma: Decreased lung function is measured by peak expiratory flow rate (PEF) or forced expiratory volume in 1 second.
asthma: Various approaches have been undertaken to try and improve adherence to treatments to help people prevent serious asthma exacerbations, including digital interventions.
asthma: Symptoms are usually worse at night and in the early morning or in response to exercise or cold air.
asthma: Asthma was also the 24th leading cause of disability worldwide in 2019, with a slightly greater impact on males than females.
asthma: Overall, there is a slightly higher health burden on women than men.
asthma: physician Alvan Barach created, by means of spirometry, the quantification of expiratory flow rates to nebulized epinephrine for those with asthma, which was the first published medical report on the effectiveness of bronchodilation.
asthma: Meta-analyses now report over 200 genome-wide significant susceptibility loci, many mapping to immune and epithelial genes and explaining a measurable, though still incomplete, fraction of heritability.
asthma: Type-2 low asthma phenotypes include asthma associated with obesity, neutrophilic asthma, asthma associated with cigarette smoke, and paucigranulocytic asthma.
asthma: In the work, he described the symptoms of asthma, proposed dietary and therapeutic treatments, and emphasized the importance of clean air and climate in managing the condition.
asthma: Asthma-COPD overlap (ACO) currently lacks a consistent definition making it hard to categorize it into either endotype.
asthma: While it remains useful for understanding older literature it is no longer routinely used in contemporary clinical practice.
asthma: It was officially named as a specific respiratory problem by Hippocrates c.
asthma: The burden of disease is a measure of the overall impact of a disease on health.
asthma: Low- and middle-income countries make up more than 80% of the mortality.
asthma: Asthma action plans include management options to prevent and treat exacerbations as well as how to modify treatment based on symptoms or seek additional medical care.
asthma: Additionally, New Zealand experienced a major epidemic of asthma in this period, which may have been due to inadequate maintenance therapy and long-term management of the disease amongst those affected, as well as delays in receiving care in emergencies.
asthma: In developing countries, people with uncontrolled asthma account for about half of all asthma-related costs, despite making up only 10–20% of people with the disease.
asthma: The successful results of using epinephrine provided encouraging medical data on the hypothesis that asthma was due to vasodilation and the subsequent inflammation of the swelling of the bronchial mucosa.
asthma: Children whose maternal grandmother smoked during pregnancy are also more likely to develop asthma, regardless of if their mothers developed asthma or smoked.
asthma: In the 1930s, U.S.
asthma: Asthma was recognized in ancient egypt and was treated by drinking an incense mixture known as kyphi.
asthma: Type-2 low asthma is the absence of these inflammatory markers and the mechanisms are not well researched.
asthma: According to NICE guidelines, children younger than five should be treated for asthma if they have symptoms suggestive of the condition instead of undergoing testing.
asthma: The cells involved in the inflammation seen in asthma include eosinophils, neutrophils, CD4 T lymphocytes, mast cells, basophils, macrophages, respiratory epithelium, endothelial, and smooth muscle cells.
asthma: The glands that produce mucus also increase in size.
asthma: Medical treatment in 1880 included the use of intravenous doses of a drug called pilocarpine.
asthma: The frequency and severity of symptoms, impairment caused by symptoms, use of rescue inhalers, questionnaires, healthcare usage, and objective tests such as spirometry, FeNO, sputum eosinophils, and hyperresponsiveness studies are used to evaluate asthma control.
asthma: Breathing exercises do not decrease asthma exacerbations or improve lung functioning, however they can be used alongside medications to help control symptoms.
asthma: Asthma control is assessed based on how well the symptoms are being controlled and future risk of consequences of the disorder.
asthma: Devices for inhaled medications include pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI), dry-powder inhalers (DPI), mist inhalers and nebulizers.
asthma: If symptoms persist then the dose of ICS may be gradually increased, a LTRA can be added on top of inhalers or a low-dose ICS-LABA or ICS-formoterol can be used instead of ICS.
asthma: A later study found that the total annual cost of asthma in the United States had risen to $81.9 billion by 2013.
asthma: Pathway analyses consistently highlight type 2 inflammation, epithelial barrier function, and both innate and adaptive immune signalling, including loci near or within IL33, IL1RL1/IL18R1, TSLP, MHC class II, and GATA3.
asthma: If someone is medically unwell or displays a high amount of symptoms before the diagnosis is confirmed, medical guidelines recommend treating the person before performing respiratory testing.
asthma: After a diagnosis of asthma is made the person receiving the diagnosis and their family should receive education about the disease and a plan for management.
asthma: Estimates from The Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) collaboration state that over one thousand people die each day due to asthma.
asthma: Historically, asthma was treated with short-acting β2 agonists (SABA) as needed and ICS were only used if symptoms persisted.
asthma: Asthma is more commonly seen in urban environments than in rural environments.
asthma: Long-acting beta agonists (LABA) or antileukotriene agents may be used in addition to inhaled corticosteroids if asthma symptoms remain uncontrolled.
asthma: The choice of delivery method depends on the type of medication used, local availability, age, and ability to use the inhaler properly.
asthma: Life-threatening exacerbations cause lethargy and clouding of consciousness.
asthma: It is still considered safe for those with asthma to take these medications, unless they have caused adverse reactions in the past.
asthma: After a diagnosis of asthma is confirmed, ICS are started as soon as possible.
asthma: At that time there was no effective treatment.
asthma: As of 2016, the prevalence of asthma was highest in non-Hispanic black and Puerto Rican children.
asthma: Worldwide, the financial burden of asthma is estimated to be greater than that of tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS combined.
asthma: Depending on the person, asthma symptoms may become worse at night or with exercise.
asthma: However, some research has suggested that early exposure to allergens in childhood may help desensitize individuals from allergies.
asthma: Other studies have shown that early exposure may increase risk of allergies and the development of allergies is multifactorial.
asthma: Multiple genes in this region, including ORMDL3 and GSDMB, appear to act primarily through regulatory mechanisms, with gene-environment interactions and age-dependent effects on airway epithelial responses, particularly to early-life viral infections.
asthma: Airway hyperresponsiveness is excessive narrowing of the airways in response to stimuli that are normally harmless.
asthma: Asthma often begins in childhood.
asthma: However, brittle asthma is best regarded as a historical disease descriptor rather than a distinct diagnostic category.
asthma: The discovery of the β2 adrenergic receptors allowed for the discovery and development of beta2 agonists.
asthma: Unlike childhood asthma, which is more prevalent in males, in adults asthma is more prevalent in females.
asthma: Asthma control is the burden of asthma on an individual such as symptoms and inflammation.
asthma: Regular physical activity is encouraged for those with asthma due to its positive effects on overall health, however, it does not result in any direct improvement in asthma symptoms and no specific form of exercise is more beneficial.
asthma: Neighborhoods in the United States with predominantly racial and ethnic minority populations are affected to a greater extent than predominantly white neighborhoods by air pollutants, which are a significant factor in the occurrence of asthma.
asthma: GBD estimates this impact using data on disease prevalence, deaths, and health surveys.
asthma: The mechanisms underlying asthma and asthma symptoms include spasms in the bronchial muscles, inflammation in the airways, hypersensitive airways, and excessive secretion of mucus in the airways.
asthma: These problems can lead to missed days at school or work and can create financial and productivity challenges for families and communities.
asthma: Asthma was recognized as early as ancient egypt.
asthma: The reasons for these differences are unclear.
asthma: A negative test result in someone not using inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) can help rule out asthma.
asthma: In the United States, the burden of asthma falls disproportionately on racial and ethnic minorities and economically underprivileged populations.
asthma: Nearly half of this burden was due to 10.2 million years lived with disability.
asthma: Personal or family history of allergic conditions can also help identify people with asthma.
asthma: In 1886, F.
asthma: Asthma mortality rates are typically higher in low-income regions due to lack of access to medical care.
asthma: Large genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and sequencing efforts indicate that risk reflects the cumulative effects of numerous common genetic variants together with a more limited contribution from rare variants, rather than a small number of loci of large effect.
asthma: Reasons for low adherence range from a conscious decision to not follow the suggested medical treatment regime for various reasons including avoiding potential side effects, misinformation, or other beliefs about the medication.
asthma: Epinephrine (adrenaline) was first referred to as a treatment of asthma in 1905.
asthma: Wheezing must be confirmed in at least one episode.
asthma: In asthma, the airways contract more than what is normal in response to both internal and external triggers.
asthma: Certain medications such as Aspirin, beta-blockers, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can worsen asthma symptoms in some individuals.
asthma: There is not enough evidence that dietary changes, including restrictive diets or supplements are helpful in managing asthma.
asthma: Some people with asthma rarely experience symptoms, usually in response to triggers, whereas others may react frequently and experience persistent symptoms.
asthma: If higher doses of ICS/formoterol are not enough to control symptoms then there are several different medications that may be added in to help manage asthma.
asthma: These tests can help identify asthma but are not specific, because airway sensitivity can also occur in other conditions like allergic rhinitis, cystic fibrosis, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and COPD.
asthma: Those with mild asthma may only require as needed medication to treat the disease while those with severe asthma require high doses of medication to gain control over the disorder or may be unable to get their symptoms under control even with medications.
asthma: While asthma is more common in boys than girls, severe asthma occurs at almost equal rates.
asthma: Due to research suggesting that management with SABA over ICS was insufficient to prevent exacerbations, guidelines now prefer ICS over SABA.
asthma: Within the two main endotypes there are subpopulations (phenotypes), some of which overlap or can be categorized under both of the two endotypes.
asthma: If asthma symptoms and exacerbations remain well controlled after two or three months, the dosage of medication can be gradually reduced to achieve symptom control at the lowest possible dose of medication.
asthma: These include the leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRA) montelukast, a mist inhaler containing the LAMA tiotropium, and azithromycin.
asthma: Exposure to cigarette smoke, from smoking or second-hand smoke, negatively affects asthma control and it is therefore recommended for those with asthma to refrain from smoking and limit exposure to second-hand smoke.
asthma: For some, exercise may trigger asthma symptoms and therefore it is recommended that inhalers be used beforehand.
asthma: Its cause was considered to be psychological, with treatment often based on psychoanalysis and other talking cures.
asthma: Airway inflammation leads to structural changes in the airways, including thickening of the airway smooth muscle and the tissue beneath the lining.
asthma: Education includes information about avoiding triggers, self monitoring of symptoms or peak expiratory flow, an asthma action plan, asthma control and treatment options.
asthma: Asthma mainly affects medium-sized airways, however small or large airways may also be affected as the condition progresses.
asthma: Both intravenous magnesium sulfate and helium–oxygen therapy are not recommended by clinical guidelines for the management of exacerbations, however they may be used in those whose symptoms do not react to other first-line treatment options.
asthma: Asthma causes recurrent episodes of wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing.
asthma: In 2019, asthma was responsible for an estimated 21.6 million DALYs worldwide across all age groups.
asthma: It is characterized by variable and recurring symptoms and reduced lung function.
asthma: Twin studies and family studies support a substantial heritable component, with estimates that roughly half or more of asthma susceptibility is explained by genetics that is further modulated by environmental and epigenetic factors.
asthma: Ipratropium, a short-acting anticholinergic, can also be used alongside other treatments to manage exacerbations in those experiencing moderate or severe symptoms.
asthma: Bosworth theorized a connection between asthma and hay fever.
asthma: This is done through two different methods; subcutaneous immunotherapy — injections — and sublingual immunotherapy — under the tongue.
asthma: Due to the variety of potential allergens and the difficulty of eliminating exposure to allergens, current guidelines do not recommend that those with asthma avoid indoor or outdoor allergens.
asthma: In contrast adult women have a higher rate of asthma than men.
asthma: Biologics can be used to reduce inflammation that may play a role in asthma symptoms.
asthma: At the beginning of the 20th century, treatment was focused on avoidance of allergens and the use of selective beta2-adrenergic agonists as treatment strategies.
asthma: Asthma guidelines advise using objective tests to confirm asthma in people with suggestive symptoms.
asthma: An endotype is the mechanisms that underlie the condition.
asthma: These two measures are combined to calculate disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), which represent the total health loss caused by a disease.
asthma: An asthma exacerbation is considered mild when there is difficulty carrying out daily activities due to symptoms and a decrease of at least 20% in PEF for over two days.
asthma: Salbutamol (albuterol) is commonly used for treating exacerbations with several doses being administered every couple of hours until symptoms lessen.
asthma: Asthma severity is measured based on how difficult the disorder is to treat.
asthma: Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) cause airway restriction and have a wide range of overlapping mechanisms and symptoms.
asthma: Chronic exposure to air pollution increases the risk of developing asthma.
asthma: Multi-trait studies identify shared risk genes across asthma, hay fever, and eczema, supporting partially common pathways involving type 2 immunity and epithelial barrier dysfunction.
asthma: Within developed countries, it is more common in those who are economically disadvantaged, while in contrast, in developing countries, it is more common in the affluent.
asthma: Symptoms of wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing that fluctuate according to time of day and exposure to triggers are characteristic of asthma.
asthma: Finally, if testing remains inconclusive, bronchial challenge tests are recommended.
asthma: Food allergies and atopic dermatitis in early childhood have been associated with an increased risk of developing asthma as a part of the atopic march.
asthma: He experienced recurring nighttime asthma attacks that felt as if he was being smothered to death, terrifying the boy and his parents.
asthma: Environmental factors include exposure to air pollution and allergens.
asthma: WHO fact sheet on asthma
asthma: The most accurate measurement of lung function is spirometry, which tests how much air a person can forcefully breathe out in one second (FEV1),  FEV1 is then compared to the total amount of air exhaled after taking a deep breath (FEV1/FVC ratio).
asthma: When testing for asthma, spirometry is performed twice; the first measurements are taken when the patient is not using any asthma medication and the second is taken after the administration of medication.
asthma: Airway hyperresponsiveness is somewhat reversible with treatment.
asthma: Contraction of airway smooth muscle, swelling (edema), thickening of the airway wall due to remodelling, increased mucus production, and mucus plugs contribute to narrowing of the airways.
asthma: GINA has proposed a set of diagnostic criteria for asthma in those under the age of five.
asthma: Bronchial provocation testing measures how sensitive and reactive the airways are.
asthma: These may occur a few times a day or a few times per week.
