astronomy: The concept of the Big Bang became widely accepted after the discovery of the microwave background radiation in 1965.
astronomy: Retrieved 7 April 2019.
astronomy: Others pertain to more specific classes of phenomena.
astronomy: Images of observations were originally drawn by hand.
astronomy: NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database (NED) (NED-Distances)
Core books and Core journals in Astronomy, from the Smithsonian/NASA Astrophysics Data System
https://viewspace.org/ veiwspace.org - interactives and videos about astronomy
Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
astronomy: Among the Church's motives was finding the date for Easter.
astronomy: With the exception of infrared wavelengths close to visible light, such radiation is heavily absorbed by the atmosphere, or masked, as the atmosphere itself produces significant infrared emission.
astronomy: Astronomy flourished in the medieval Islamic world.
astronomy: ISBN 978-1-60303-159-2.
astronomy: He also observed the small drift in the positions of the equinoxes and solstices with respect to the fixed stars that we now know is caused by precession.
astronomy: In the later medieval period, the Kerala school contributed to astronomy through refined observational practices and more accurate planetary and eclipse calculations.
astronomy: Infrared astronomy detects infrared radiation with wavelengths longer than red visible light, outside the range of our vision.
astronomy: Ultraviolet astronomy employs ultraviolet wavelengths which are absorbed by the Earth's atmosphere, requiring observations from the upper atmosphere or from space.
astronomy: The remnant of a supernova is a dense neutron star, or, if the stellar mass was at least three times that of the Sun, a black hole.
astronomy: These have been used to explain phenomena such as quasars and pulsars.
astronomy: Objects of interest include planets, moons, stars, nebulae, galaxies, meteoroids, asteroids, and comets.
astronomy: For example, is the Solar System normal or atypical?
astronomy: Planetary science is the study of the assemblage of planets, moons, dwarf planets, comets, asteroids, and other bodies orbiting the Sun, as well as exoplanets orbiting distant stars.
astronomy: A few observatories have been constructed, such as the Laser Interferometer Gravitational Observatory LIGO.
astronomy: Nicole Oresme (1320–1382) discussed evidence for the rotation of the Earth.
astronomy: Collectively, amateur astronomers observe celestial objects and phenomena, sometimes with consumer-level equipment or equipment that they build themselves.
astronomy: {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)
Harpaz, Amos (1994).
astronomy: Jean Buridan (1300–1361) developed the theory of impetus, describing motions including of the celestial bodies.
astronomy: The new telescopes also altered ideas about stars.
astronomy: This allows the study of the chemistry of space.
astronomy: London & New York: The Encyclopædia Britannica Company.
astronomy: Astrophysics predicted the existence of objects such as black holes and neutron stars.
astronomy: Following the Babylonians, significant advances were made in ancient Greece and the Hellenistic world.
astronomy: "Astronomy" .
astronomy: It uses mathematics, physics, and chemistry to explain their origin and their overall evolution.
astronomy: LIGO made its first detection on 14 September 2015, observing gravitational waves from a binary black hole.
astronomy: Astrobiology (or exobiology) studies the origin of life and its development other than on earth.
astronomy: Solar astronomy is the study of the Sun, a typical main-sequence dwarf star of stellar class G2 V, and about 4.6 billion years (Gyr) old.
astronomy: Dark matter and dark energy are now thought form 96% of the mass of the Universe.
astronomy: The Babylonians discovered that lunar eclipses recurred in the saros cycle of 223 synodic months.
astronomy: Ultraviolet astronomy is best suited to the study of thermal radiation and spectral emission lines from hot blue OB stars that are very bright at these wavelengths.
astronomy: It makes use of astronomy, biochemistry, geology, microbiology, physics, and planetary science to investigate the possibility of life on other worlds and help recognize biospheres that might be different from that on Earth.
astronomy: Historically, accurate knowledge of the positions of the Sun, Moon, planets and stars has been essential in celestial navigation (the use of celestial objects to guide navigation) and in the making of calendars.
astronomy: the One-Mile Telescope).
astronomy: Amateur astronomers have helped with many important discoveries, such as finding new comets.
astronomy: These include the Egyptians, Babylonians, Greeks, Indians, Chinese, Maya, and many ancient indigenous peoples of the Americas.
astronomy: In 964, the Andromeda Galaxy, the largest galaxy in the Local Group, was described by the Persian Muslim astronomer Abd al-Rahman al-Sufi in his Book of Fixed Stars.
astronomy: Sometimes, as in the introduction of the introductory textbook The Physical Universe by Frank Shu, "astronomy" means the qualitative study of the subject, whereas "astrophysics" is the physics-oriented version of the subject.
astronomy: By studying these distant galaxies astronomers hope to learn about the formation of the first galaxies.
astronomy: Processes studied include planetary differentiation; the generation of, and effects created by, a planetary magnetic field; and the creation of heat within a planet, such as by collisions, radioactive decay, and tidal heating.
astronomy: Friedrich Bessel developed the technique of stellar parallax in 1838 but it was so difficult to apply that only about 100 stars were measured by 1900.
astronomy: X-ray sources include X-ray binaries, supernova remnants, clusters of galaxies, and active galactic nuclei.
astronomy: The Antikythera mechanism (c.
astronomy: A dark matter halo appears to dominate the mass, although the nature of this dark matter remains undetermined.
astronomy: As "forensic astronomy", finally, methods from astronomy have been used to solve problems of art history and occasionally of law.
astronomy: The two fields share a common origin but became distinct, astronomy being supported by physics while astrology is not.
astronomy: The Solar System has been relatively well-studied, initially through telescopes and then later by spacecraft.
astronomy: The astrophysics of stars has been determined through observation and theoretical understanding; and from computer simulations of the interior.
astronomy: Studies in this field contribute for example to the understanding of the formation of the Solar System.
astronomy: Why is the abundance of lithium in the cosmos four times lower than predicted by the standard Big Bang model?
astronomy: After John Michell demonstrated that stars differ in intrinsic luminosity and after Herschel's own observations with more powerful telescopes that additional stars appeared in all directions, astronomers began to consider that some of the fuzzy spiral nebulae were distant island Universes.
astronomy: His 13-volume astronomy work, named the Almagest in its Arabic translation, became the primary reference for over a thousand years.
astronomy: Newton also developed the reflecting telescope.
astronomy: Observations from the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE) have been particularly effective at unveiling numerous galactic protostars and their host star clusters.
astronomy: The James Webb Space Telescope senses infrared radiation to detect very distant galaxies.
astronomy: The study of objects outside our galaxy is concerned with the formation and evolution of galaxies, their morphology (description) and classification, the observation of active galaxies, and at a larger scale, the groups and clusters of galaxies.
astronomy: It considers whether extraterrestrial life exists, and how humans can detect it if it does.
astronomy: In 1859, Gustav Kirchhoff ascribed these lines to the presence of different elements.
astronomy: Astronomy is a natural science that studies celestial objects and the phenomena that occur in the cosmos.
astronomy: Astronomy should not be confused with astrology, the belief system which claims that human affairs are correlated with the positions of celestial objects.
astronomy: Some molecules radiate strongly in the infrared.
astronomy: Historically, optical astronomy, which has been also called visible light astronomy, is the oldest form of astronomy.
astronomy: In the 4th century BC, Heracleides Ponticus was the first to proposed that the Earth rotates on its own axis.
astronomy: Gravitational-wave astronomy employs gravitational-wave detectors to collect observational data about distant massive objects.
astronomy: In turn, that heat can drive geologic processes such as volcanism, tectonics, and surface erosion, studied by branches of geology.
astronomy: Around the same time the heliocentric model was organized quantitatively by Johannes Kepler.
astronomy: For this reason, much effort is expended in trying to understand the physics of these components.
astronomy: In 1814–15, Joseph von Fraunhofer discovered some 574 dark lines in the spectrum of the sun and of other stars.
astronomy: The measurement of stellar parallax of nearby stars provides a fundamental baseline in the cosmic distance ladder that is used to measure the scale of the Universe.
astronomy: More generally, astronomy studies everything that originates beyond Earth's atmosphere.
astronomy: The consequence that the universe was once very dense and hot, a Big Bang concept expounded by Georges Lemaître in 1927, was discussed but no experimental evidence was available to support it.
astronomy: Careful measurement of the positions of the planets has led to a solid understanding of gravitational perturbations, and an ability to determine past and future positions of the planets with great accuracy, a field known as celestial mechanics.
astronomy: Thus, in modern use, the two terms are often used interchangeably.
astronomy: Modern images are made using digital detectors, particularly using charge-coupled devices (CCDs) and recorded on modern medium.
astronomy: Technological artifacts of similar complexity did not reappear until the 14th century, when mechanical astronomical clocks appeared in Europe.
astronomy: For over six centuries (from the recovery of ancient learning during the late Middle Ages into the Enlightenment), the Roman Catholic Church gave more financial and social support to the study of astronomy than probably all other institutions.
astronomy: In the late 1700s William Herschel mapped the distribution of stars in different directions from Earth, concluding that the universe consisted of the Sun near the center of disk of stars, the Milky Way.
astronomy: While the system would eventually be discredited, it gave the most accurate predictions for the positions of astronomical bodies available at that time.
astronomy: Observational astronomy relies on many different wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation and the forms of astronomy are  categorized according to the corresponding region of the electromagnetic spectrum on which the observations are made.
astronomy: Measurements of the radial velocity and proper motion of stars allow astronomers to plot the movement of these systems through the Milky Way galaxy.
astronomy: One of the oldest fields in astronomy, and in all of science, is the measurement of the positions of celestial objects known as astrometry.
astronomy: Hipparchus also created a catalog of 1020 stars, and most of the constellations of the northern hemisphere derive from Greek astronomy.
astronomy: These assist the understanding of the large-scale structure of the cosmos.
astronomy: X-ray astronomy uses X-radiation, produced by extremely hot and high-energy processes.
astronomy: Astronomy clubs throughout the world have programs to help their members set up and run observational programs such as to observe all the objects in the Messier (110 objects) or Herschel 400 catalogues.
astronomy: Most amateurs work at visible wavelengths, but some have experimented with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum.
astronomy: Physical cosmology, the study of large-scale structure of the Universe, seeks to understand the formation and evolution of the cosmos.
astronomy: As the Earth is within the dusty outer arms, large portions of the Milky Way are obscured from view.
astronomy: What will be the ultimate fate of the universe?
astronomy: Analyzing two decades of careful observations by Tycho Brahe, Kepler devised a system that described the details of the motion of the planets around the Sun.
astronomy: The infrared spectrum is useful for studying objects that are too cold to radiate visible light, such as planets, circumstellar disks or nebulae whose light is blocked by dust.
astronomy: Research departments may use "astronomy" and "astrophysics" according to whether the department is historically affiliated with a physics department, and many professional astronomers have physics rather than astronomy degrees.
astronomy: They can discover comets, and perform regular observations of variable stars.
astronomy: In neutrino astronomy, astronomers use heavily shielded underground facilities such as SAGE, GALLEX, and Kamioka II/III for the detection of neutrinos.
astronomy: Since X-rays are absorbed by the Earth's atmosphere, observations must be performed at high altitude, such as from balloons, rockets, or specialized satellites.
astronomy: Greek astronomy sought a rational, physical explanation for celestial phenomena.
astronomy: The English astronomer John Flamsteed, Britain's first Astronomer Royal, catalogued over 3000 stars but the data were published against his wishes in 1712.
astronomy: Common targets include the Sun, the Moon, planets, stars, comets, meteor showers, and deep-sky objects such as star clusters, galaxies, and nebulae.
astronomy: Kinematic studies of matter in the Milky Way and other galaxies show there is more mass than can be accounted for by visible matter.
astronomy: 150–80 BC) was an early analog computer designed to calculate the location of the Sun, Moon, and planets for a given date.
astronomy: The astronomer William Herschel made a detailed catalog of nebulosity and clusters, and in 1781 discovered the planet Uranus, the first new planet found.
astronomy: Hydrogen, otherwise an invisible gas, produces a spectral line at 21 cm (1420 MHz) which is observable at radio wavelengths.
astronomy: Astronomy is one of the sciences to which amateurs can contribute the most.
astronomy: This relation is expected if the universe is expanding.
astronomy: why do astronomers observe the same distribution of stellar masses—the initial mass function—regardless of initial conditions?
astronomy: London: Plain Label Books.
astronomy: The SN 1006 supernova, the brightest apparent magnitude stellar event in the last 1000 years, was observed by the Egyptian Arabic astronomer Ali ibn Ridwan and Chinese astronomers in 1006.
astronomy: Space telescopes have enabled measurements in parts of the electromagnetic spectrum normally blocked or blurred by the atmosphere.
astronomy: The early civilizations in recorded history made methodical observations of the night sky.
astronomy: A K Peters.
astronomy: Cambridge University Press.
astronomy: Some amateur astronomers use homemade telescopes or radio telescopes originally built for astronomy research (e.g.
astronomy: In Post-classical West Africa, astronomers studied the movement of stars and relation to seasons, crafting charts of the heavens and diagrams of orbits of the other planets based on complex mathematical calculations.
astronomy: In the 21st century, there remain important unanswered questions in astronomy.
astronomy: This is especially true for the discovery and observation of transient events.
astronomy: In this system, the Earth was believed to be the center of the Universe with the Sun, the Moon and the stars rotating around it.
astronomy: Astronomy is one of the few sciences in which amateurs play an active role.
astronomy: Cosmic rays, which consist of very high energy particles (atomic nuclei) that can decay or be absorbed when they enter the Earth's atmosphere, result in a cascade of secondary particles which can be detected by current observatories.
astronomy: It studies the abundance and reactions of molecules in the Universe, and their interaction with radiation.
astronomy: The LIGO project detected evidence of gravitational waves in 2015.
astronomy: Civilizations such as Egypt, Mesopotamia, Greece, India, China independently but with cross-cultural influences created astronomical observatories and developed ideas on the nature of the Universe, along with calendars and astronomical instruments.
astronomy: Aspects studied include star formation in giant molecular clouds; the formation of protostars; and the transition to nuclear fusion and main-sequence stars, carrying out nucleosynthesis.
astronomy: Relevant phenomena include supernova explosions, gamma ray bursts, quasars, blazars, pulsars, and cosmic microwave background radiation.
astronomy: Then in 1965 cosmic microwave background radiation was discovered, cementing the evidence for the Big Bang.
astronomy: Some are cosmic in scope: for example, what are the dark matter and dark energy that dominate the evolution and fate of the cosmos?
astronomy: In the 3rd century BC, Aristarchus of Samos estimated the size and distance of the Moon and Sun, and he proposed a model of the Solar System where the Earth and planets rotated around the Sun, now called the heliocentric model.
astronomy: Processes studied by the science include the sunspot cycle, the sun's changes in luminosity, both steady and periodic, and the behavior of the sun's various layers, namely its core with its nuclear fusion, the radiation zone, the convection zone, the photosphere, the chromosphere, and the corona.
astronomy: While Kepler discarded the uniform circular motion of Copernicus in favor of elliptical motion, he did not succeed in formulating a theory behind the laws he wrote down.
astronomy: While his model maintained circular orbits, it was sufficient to calculate the size of planetary orbits and their period.
astronomy: Evidence also comes from artefacts such as the Nebra sky disc inlaid with symbols interpreted as a sun, moon, and stars including a cluster of seven stars.
astronomy: What is the origin of the stellar mass spectrum, i.e.
astronomy: In 1929 Hubble published observations that the galaxies are all moving away from Earth with a velocity proportional to distance, a relation now known as Hubble's law.
astronomy: In the late 19th century and most of the 20th century, images were made using photographic equipment.
astronomy: The ruins at Great Zimbabwe and Timbuktu may have housed astronomical observatories.
astronomy: Since the Sun's surface is relatively cool, X-ray images of the Sun and other stars give valuable information on the hot solar corona.
astronomy: By 1610 Galileo discovered that the band of light crossing the sky at night that we call the Milky Way was composed of numerous stars.
astronomy: Significant advances in astronomy came about with the introduction of new technology, including the spectroscope and astrophotography.
astronomy: Radio astronomy uses radiation with long wavelengths, mainly between 1 millimeter and 15 meters (frequencies from 20 MHz to 300 GHz), far outside the visible range.
astronomy: In 1912, Henrietta Leavitt discovered Cepheid variable stars with well-defined, periodic luminosity changes which can be used to fix the star's true luminosity which then becomes an accurate tool for distance estimates.
astronomy: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
astronomy: Encyclopædia Britannica (13th ed.).
astronomy: Cosmology is the branch of astronomy that studies the universe as a whole.
astronomy: In the 2nd century BC, Hipparchus calculated the size and distance of the Moon and invented the earliest known astronomical devices such as the astrolabe.
astronomy: Using the Hooker Telescope, Edwin Hubble identified Cepheid variables in several spiral nebulae and in 1922–1923 proved conclusively that Andromeda Nebula and Triangulum among others, were entire galaxies outside our own, thus proving that the universe consists of a multitude of galaxies.
astronomy: Garvin, James Louis, ed.
astronomy: Astronomical observatories were established there by the early 9th century.
astronomy: The appealing simplicity of Copernican astronomy led to its adoption among astronomers even before it was confirmed by Galileo's telescopic observations in the 1600s.
astronomy: From the 1940s on, nuclear reaction rates under high density conditions were studied leading to the development of a successful model of big bang nucleosynthesis in the late 1940s and early 1950s.
astronomy: A second gravitational wave was detected on 26 December 2015 and additional observations should continue but gravitational waves require extremely sensitive instruments.
astronomy: A key early development was the beginning of mathematical and scientific astronomy among the Babylonians, laying the foundations for astronomical traditions in other civilizations.
astronomy: ISBN 978-1-56881-012-6.
astronomy: It was Isaac Newton, with his invention of celestial dynamics and his law of gravitation, who finally explained the motions of the planets.
astronomy: Parallax measurements of nearby stars provide an absolute baseline for the properties of more distant stars, as their properties can be compared.
astronomy: The longer wavelengths of infrared can penetrate clouds of dust that block visible light, allowing the observation of young stars embedded in molecular clouds and the cores of galaxies.
astronomy: Consequently, infrared observatories have to be located in high, dry places on Earth or in space.
astronomy: Further processes studied include stellar evolution, ending either with supernovae or white dwarfs.
astronomy: Objects observable at radio wavelengths include interstellar gas, pulsars, fast radio bursts, supernovae, and active galactic nuclei.
astronomy: Unsöld, A.; Baschek, B.
astronomy: Āryabhaṭa notably improved methods for calculating planetary motions and eclipses.
astronomy: Arabic astronomers introduced many Arabic names now used for individual stars.
astronomy: Visible light from these galaxies was emitted billions of years ago and the expansion of the universe shifted the light in to the infrared range.
astronomy: Gamma ray astronomy observes astronomical objects at the shortest wavelengths (highest energy) of the electromagnetic spectrum.
astronomy: Archaeoastronomy is the study of ancient or traditional astronomies in their cultural context, using archaeological and anthropological evidence.
astronomy: Iranian scholar Al-Biruni observed that, contrary to Ptolemy, the Sun's apogee (highest point in the heavens) was mobile, not fixed.
astronomy: Megalithic structures located in Nabta Playa, Upper Egypt featured astronomical calendar arrangements in alignment with the heliacal rising of Sirius and supported calibration the yearly calendar for the annual Nile flood.
astronomy: Amateurs can make occultation measurements to refine the orbits of minor planets.
astronomy: The word "astrochemistry" may be applied to both the Solar System and the interstellar medium.
astronomy: The initial development of astronomy was driven by practical needs like agricultural calendars.
astronomy: The study of stars and stellar evolution is fundamental to our understanding of the Universe.
astronomy: During the 18–19th centuries, the study of the three-body problem by Leonhard Euler, Alexis Claude Clairaut, and Jean le Rond d'Alembert led to more accurate predictions about the motions of the Moon and planets.
astronomy: Astrochemistry is an overlap of astronomy and chemistry.
astronomy: Songhai historian Mahmud Kati documented a meteor shower in 1583.
astronomy: Cherenkov telescopes do not detect the gamma rays directly but instead detect the flashes of visible light produced when gamma rays are absorbed by the Earth's atmosphere.
astronomy: Specific information on these subfields is given below.
astronomy: The pioneer of amateur radio astronomy, Karl Jansky, discovered a radio source at the centre of the Milky Way.
astronomy: Earlier indigenous traditions, such as those recorded in the Vedāṅga Jyotiṣa, provided calendrical foundations, while Greek astronomical models were later integrated by scholars including Āryabhaṭa, Varāhamihira, and Brahmagupta.
astronomy: The combination of observations made using electromagnetic radiation, neutrinos or gravitational waves and other complementary information, is known as multi-messenger astronomy.
astronomy: Gamma-ray bursts, which radiate transiently, are extremely energetic events, and are the brightest (most luminous) phenomena in the universe.
astronomy: In the past, astronomy included disciplines as diverse as astrometry, celestial navigation, observational astronomy, and the making of calendars.
astronomy: Astronomy is one of the oldest natural sciences.
astronomy: Some fields, such as astrometry, are in this sense purely astronomy rather than also astrophysics.
astronomy: Using Cepheid variable stars, Harlow Shapley constructed the first accurate map of the Milky Way.
astronomy: This work was further refined by Joseph-Louis Lagrange and Pierre Simon Laplace, allowing the masses of the planets and moons to be estimated from their perturbations.
astronomy: The vast majority of the neutrinos streaming through the Earth originate from the Sun, but 24 neutrinos were also detected from supernova 1987A.
astronomy: It is a rotating mass of gas, dust, stars and other objects, held together by mutual gravitational attraction.
astronomy: The origin and early evolution of life is an inseparable part of the discipline of astrobiology.
astronomy: Likewise, questions remain about the formation of the first galaxies, the origin of supermassive black holes, the source of ultra-high-energy cosmic rays, and whether there is other life in the Universe, especially other intelligent life.
astronomy: Before recorded history archeological sites such as Stonehenge provide evidence of ancient interest in astronomical observations.
astronomy: Archived from the original on 28 August 2018.
astronomy: Some events originating from great distances may be observed from the Earth using systems that do not rely on electromagnetic radiation.
astronomy: ISBN 978-3-540-67877-9.
astronomy: In  1922, Alexander Friedman published simplified models for the universe showing static, expanding and contracting solutions.
astronomy: Newton, in collaboration with Richard Bentley proposed that stars are like the Sun only much further away.
astronomy: The existence of galaxies, including the Earth's galaxy, the Milky Way, as a group of stars was only demonstrated in the 20th century.
astronomy: Galactic astronomy studies galaxies including the Milky Way, a barred spiral galaxy that is a prominent member of the Local Group of galaxies and contains the Solar System.
astronomy: Sometime around 1608 the telescope was invented and by 1610, Galileo Galilei observed phases on the planet Venus similar to those of the Moon, supporting the heliocentric model.
astronomy: The ejection of the outer layers forms a planetary nebula.
astronomy: Stellar Evolution.
astronomy: In 1668 James Gregory compared the luminosity of Jupiter to Sirius to estimate its distance at over 83,000 AU.
astronomy: Fundamental to modern cosmology is the well-accepted theory of the Big Bang, the concept that the universe begin extremely dense and hot, then expanded over the course of 13.8 billion years to its present condition.
astronomy: Gamma-ray astronomy provides information on the origin of cosmic rays, possible annihilation events for dark matter, relativistic particles outflows from active galactic nuclei (AGN), and, using AGN as distant sources, properties of intergalactic space.
astronomy: Improvements in digital technology have allowed amateurs to make advances in astrophotography.
astronomy: Astrostatistics is the application of statistics to the analysis of large quantities of observational astrophysical data.
astronomy: The New Cosmos: An Introduction to Astronomy and Astrophysics.
astronomy: Albert Einstein's 1917 publication of general relativity began the modern era of theoretical models of the universe as a whole.
astronomy: Although visible light itself extends from approximately 380 to 700 nm that same equipment can be used to observe some near-ultraviolet and near-infrared radiation.
astronomy: History of Astronomy.
astronomy: Gamma rays may be observed directly by satellites such as the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, or by specialized telescopes called atmospheric Cherenkov telescopes.
astronomy: With the arrival of Hellenistic astronomy in India through trade and cultural contacts, Indian astronomy entered a new phase during the early centuries CE.
