athlete: The primary definition of "sportsman" according to Webster's Third Unabridged Dictionary (1960) is, "a person who is active in sports: as  (a): one who engages in the sports of the field and especially in hunting or fishing."
athlete: An athlete is most commonly a person who competes in one or more sports involving physical strength, speed, power, or endurance.
athlete: An "all-round athlete" is a person who competes in multiple sports at a professional level.
athlete: Jim Hines first broke the 10-second barrier in 1968, Tyson Gay ran the fastest non-winning sub-10 at 9.71 in 2009, Kim Collins became the only quadragenarian to run sub-10 with 9.93 at age 40, and Justin Gatlin held the longest sub-10 career span, lasting 18 years.
athlete: including track and field and marathon runners but excluding e.g.
athlete: Japanese athletes such as Kazushi Sakuraba, Kazuyuki Fujita, Masakatsu Funaki and Naoya Ogawa have successfully performed in professional wrestling and competed in mixed martial arts.
athlete: The 100-metre dash is the foundational short-distance event in modern athletics, functioning as a primary global fixture since 1896 and serving as a universal benchmark for human acceleration, speed and peak velocity.
athlete: The decathlon consists of 10 events: 100 meters, long jump, shot put, high jump, 400 meters, 110 m hurdles, discus, pole vault, javelin, and 1500 m.
athlete: King Gustav V of Sweden, while awarding Thorpe the decathlon gold, said: "Sir, you are the greatest athlete in the world." This title has been associated with the decathlon event ever since.
athlete: Sometimes the word "athlete" is used to refer specifically to sport of athletics competitors, i.e.
athlete: Its universal resonance due to it simplicity, accessibility, dramatic finishes, and the relevance of speed across sports and human history marks the 100 metre dash as among the most prestigious athletic events.
athlete: Due to their strenuous physical activities, athletes are far more likely than the general population to visit massage salons and pay for services from massotherapists and masseurs.
athlete: Examples of people who played more than one sport professionally include Jim Thorpe, Lionel Conacher, Deion Sanders, Danny Ainge, Babe Zaharias and Erin Phillips.
athlete: "Athletæ" .
athlete: swimmers, footballers or basketball players.
athlete: Thorpe competed professionally in baseball, American football, and basketball; and competed collegiately in track and field, baseball, lacrosse, and did ballroom dancing.
athlete: New York: Charles Scribner's Sons.
athlete: Athletes whose sport requires endurance more than strength usually have a lower calorie intake than other athletes.
athlete: The heptathlon consists of seven events: the 100 m hurdles, high jump, shot put, 200 meters, long jump, javelin, and 800 meters.
athlete: Although the title "World's Greatest Athlete seems a natural fit for these two events, its traditional association with the decathlon/heptathlon officially began with Jim Thorpe.
athlete: During the 1912 Olympics in Stockholm, Sweden, Thorpe won the gold medal in the Decathlon (among others).
athlete: Another female example is Heather Moyse, a multiple Winter Olympic gold medalist in bobsled and member of the World Rugby Hall of Fame who also represented Canada internationally in track cycling and competed at university level in basketball and track and field.
athlete: For the latter definition, the word sportsperson or the gendered sportsman or sportswoman are also used.
athlete: The word "athlete" is a romanization of the Greek: άθλητὴς, athlētēs, meaning one who participates in a contest; from ἄθλος, áthlos or ἄθλον, áthlon, meaning a contest or feat.
athlete: These competitions require an athlete to possess the whole spectrum of athletic ability to be successful, including speed, strength, coordination, jumping ability, and endurance.
athlete: A third definition is also sometimes used, meaning anyone who is physically fit regardless of whether they compete in a sport.
athlete: The ability to run the 100 metres in under 10 seconds is among the most reliable measurements of extraordinary human athletic prowess, and Asafa Powell holds the distinction of having achieved this feat more than any other athlete, at ninety-seven recorded sub-10s.
athlete: Others include Ricky Williams, Bo Jackson and Damon Allen, each of whom was drafted both by Major League Baseball and by professional gridiron football leagues such as the NFL and the CFL.
athlete: Encyclopædia Britannica (9th ed.).
athlete: (1875–1889).
athlete: Athletes may be professionals or amateurs.
athlete: Further studies on these and other genetic polymorphisms linked to athletic performance were recommended.
athlete: If an athlete receives more credit than is warranted it is often described as overrated or overhyped, or in the case of semantics or a superlative, hyperbole.
athlete: Most professional athletes have particularly well-developed physiques obtained by extensive physical training and strict exercise, accompanied by a strict dietary regimen.
athlete: However, in other contexts (mainly in the United States) it is used to refer to all athletics (physical culture) participants of any sport.
