australia: Each state and major mainland territory has its own parliament – unicameral in the Northern Territory, the ACT and Queensland, and bicameral in the other states.
australia: The Statute of Westminster 1931 ended the ability of the UK to legislate for Australia at the federal level without Australia's consent.
australia: Because of its long geographic isolation, much of Australia's biota is unique.
australia: The name Australia (pronounced  in Australian English) is derived from the Latin Terra Australis Incognita ('unknown southern land'), a name used for a hypothetical continent in the Southern Hemisphere since ancient times.
australia: Same-sex marriage has been legal in the nation since 2017.
australia: Following the rollout of vaccines in 2021, these restrictions were gradually eased.
australia: The resulting intratectonic stresses lead to relatively high seismic activity for a geologically stable landmass.
australia: In a 1999 constitutional referendum, 55% of voters rejected abolishing the monarchy and becoming a republic.
australia: Non-British immigration since the Second World War has led to the growth of non-Christian religions, the largest of which are Islam (3.2%), Hinduism (2.7%), Buddhism (2.4%), Sikhism (0.8%), and Judaism (0.4%).
australia: Unlike other comparable Western democracies, Australia does not have a single federal charter of rights in the Constitution or under legislation; however, the ACT, Victoria, and Queensland have state-based ones.
australia: Italians introduced espresso coffee and, along with Greeks, helped develop Australia's café culture, of which the flat white and avocado toast are now considered Australian staples.
australia: It is estimated that less that 10% of Australia's fungi and insects have been named.
australia: The impressionistic works of Arthur Streeton, Tom Roberts and other members of the 19th-century Heidelberg School – the first "distinctively Australian" movement in Western art – gave expression to nationalist sentiments in the lead-up to Federation.
australia: It is a major non-NATO ally of the United States.
australia: A camp was established and the Union Flag raised and the date later became Australia's national day.
australia: Outline of Australia
australia: Canberra is the nation's capital, while its most populous cities are Sydney and Melbourne, each with a population of more than five million.
australia: Australia, officially the Commonwealth of Australia, is a country comprising the mainland of the Australian continent, the island of Tasmania and numerous smaller islands.
australia: A series of gold rushes beginning in the early 1850s led to an influx of new migrants from China, North America and continental Europe, as well as outbreaks of bushranging and civil unrest; the latter peaked in 1854 when Ballarat miners launched the Eureka Rebellion against gold licence fees.
australia: Their works are still popular; Paterson's bush poem "Waltzing Matilda" (1895) is regarded as Australia's unofficial national anthem.
australia: Australia is a leading exporter and consumer of wine.
australia: Bushfire conditions are common in southern Australia.
australia: Australia has unusual variability in rainfall within years and between years, leading to frequent droughts and flooding.
australia: The use of gas also increased by 1.5% and the use of oil stayed relatively stable with a reduction of only 0.2%.
australia: In January 2025, there were 168,386 named species on the Australian National Species List.
australia: Australia has the highest ratio of international students per head of population in the world by a large margin, with 812,000 international students enrolled in the nation's universities and vocational institutions in 2019.
australia: Charles III reigns as King of Australia and is represented in Australia by the governor-general at the federal level and by the governors at the state level, who by section 63 of the Constitution and convention act on the advice of their ministers.
australia: After World War I, Hollywood monopolised the industry, and by the 1960s, Australian film production had effectively ceased.
australia: This continued a process of increasing autonomy from the United Kingdom, highlighted by the Statute of Westminster Adoption Act 1942, and culminating in the Australia Act 1986.
australia: Australia profile on The World Factbook
Australia profile from BBC News
Australia profile from the OECD
 Wikimedia Atlas of Australia
 Geographic data related to Australia at OpenStreetMap
Government
australia: Growing opposition to the convict system culminated in its abolition in the eastern colonies by the 1850s.
australia: The executive branch of the Commonwealth government has overall control of the military through the minister of defence, who is subject to the decisions of Cabinet and its National Security Committee.
australia: The surf lifesaving movement originated in Australia in the early 20th century, following the relaxation of laws prohibiting daylight bathing on Australian beaches.
australia: Today, Australia has the world's eighth-largest immigrant population, with immigrants accounting for 30% of the population, the highest proportion among major Western nations.
australia: Australian wine is produced mainly in the southern, cooler parts of the country.
australia: In 2021, the average age of the population was 39 years.
australia: There are also smaller coastal river systems, inland drainage systems such as the Lake Eyre system, and salt lake systems in central and western Australia.
australia: The ancestors of Aboriginal Australians began arriving from Southeast Asia 50,000 to 65,000 years ago, during the Last Glacial Period.
australia: The climate is also influenced by various systems such as the El Niño–Southern Oscillation, the Indian Ocean Dipole and the Southern Annular Mode.
australia: Estimates of the Aboriginal population before British settlement range from 300,000 to 3 million.
australia: Australia is sometimes considered the world's largest island and is often dubbed the "island continent".
australia: A new target of 82% renewable energy by 2030 was set in 2022 and a target for net zero emissions by 2050 was set in 2021.
australia: The evolution of Australian culture since British colonisation has given rise to distinctive cultural traits.
australia: The British Admiralty adopted the name in 1824, and the British Parliament used it in legislation in 1828.
australia: According to the Australian Council of Social Service, the poverty rate of Australia exceeds 13.6% of the population, encompassing over 3.2 million.
australia: Colloquial names for Australia include "Oz", "Straya" and "Down Under".
australia: The titular role of commander-in-chief is held by the governor-general; however, actual command is vested in the chief of the Defence Force.
australia: As of 2026, 14 Australian scientists have been awarded the Nobel Prize in physics, chemistry or medicine, and two have been awarded the Fields Medal.
australia: In October 2023, Australia declared that COVID-19 was no longer a communicable disease incident of national significance.
australia: The Australian sign language known as Auslan was used at home by 16,242 people at the time of the 2021 census.
australia: The oldest human remains found are the Lake Mungo remains, which have been dated to approximately 42,000 years ago.
australia: The contraction of the range of the Tasmanian tiger and Tasmanian devil to that island about 4,000 to 5,000 years ago is also consistent with changes on the mainland including an increasing human population, the introduction of the dingo, and the greater use of fire and new stone tool technologies.
australia: There is a state-based system of vocational training, known as TAFE, and many trades conduct apprenticeships for training new tradespeople.
australia: It is the world's twelfth largest by nominal terms, and the twenty-third largest by PPP.
australia: Australian achievements include the invention of atomic absorption spectroscopy, the essential components of Wi-Fi technology, and the development of the first commercially successful polymer banknote.
australia: The Newcastle earthquake of 1989 was Australia's deadliest, killing 13 people.
australia: The largest religion is Christianity (43.9% of the population).
australia: The nation also ranks highly in beer consumption, with each state and territory hosting numerous breweries.
australia: The AACTAs are Australia's premier film and television awards, and notable Academy Award winners from Australia include Geoffrey Rush, Nicole Kidman, Cate Blanchett and Heath Ledger.
australia: Internationally, the country is a member of the United Nations (of which it was a founding member), the Commonwealth of Nations, the OECD and the G20.
australia: The Commonwealth can only make laws on topics listed in the constitution but its laws prevail over those of the states to the extent of any inconsistency.
australia: In Australian Aboriginal mythology and the animist framework developed in Aboriginal Australia, the Dreaming is a sacred era in which ancestral totemic spirit beings formed The Creation.
australia: What these values mean, and whether Australians uphold them, has been debated since before Federation.
australia: As a result of a 1967 referendum, the federal government gained the power to legislate with regard to Aboriginal Australians, and Aboriginal Australians were fully included in the census.
australia: Thus, in practice the governor-general acts as a legal figurehead for the actions of the prime minister and the Cabinet.
australia: This exclusive economic zone does not include the Australian Antarctic Territory.
australia: Climate change from increased greenhouse gas emissions has led to a 1.5 °C rise in Australian temperatures since 1910 and an increase in extreme heat and heavy rainfall events.
australia: Australia has an adult literacy rate that was estimated to be 99% in 2003.
australia: Following a period in which access to the scheme was restricted, the scheme became universal once more in 1981 under the name of Medicare.
australia: School attendance, or registration for home schooling, is compulsory throughout Australia.
australia: Also during the colonial period, Chinese migrants paved the way for a distinctive Australian Chinese cuisine.
australia: Australia's population density is 3.5 inhabitants per square kilometre, which is one of the lowest in the world.
australia: Total consumption of energy in this period was sourced from coal (28.4%), oil (37.3%), gas (27.4%) and renewables (7%).
australia: In 2022, startup ecosystems in Sydney and Melbourne were valued at $34 billion.
australia: Most entered on skilled visas, however the immigration program also offers visas for family members and refugees.
australia: Nutritionally poor flora and variable rainfall also favour animals with lower energy requirements, including snakes, lizards, and hopping marsupials such as the kangaroo and wallaby.
australia: Australia has pursued the cause of international trade liberalisation.
australia: The six colonies individually gained responsible government between 1855 and 1890, managing most of their own affairs while remaining part of the British Empire.
australia: The program is nominally funded by an income tax surcharge known as the Medicare levy, currently at 2%.
australia: Australia has two public broadcasters (the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and the multicultural Special Broadcasting Service), three commercial television networks, several pay-TV services, and numerous public, non-profit television and radio stations.
australia: It is one of the world's oldest federations, in which power is divided between the federal and state governments.
australia: It was one of the founding members of the League of Nations in 1920, and the United Nations in 1945.
australia: The Colonial Office in London retained control of some matters, notably foreign affairs.
australia: As Australia is a Westminster parliamentary democracy with a powerful and elected upper house, its system has sometimes been called a "Washminster mutation", or semi-parliamentary.
australia: The lower houses are known as the Legislative Assembly (the House of Assembly in South Australia and Tasmania); the upper houses are known as the Legislative Council.
australia: It has a land area of 7,688,287 km2 (2,968,464 sq mi), making it the sixth-largest country in the world, and is the world's flattest and driest inhabited continent.
australia: It also maintains an international aid program under which some 75 countries receive assistance.
australia: However, it is estimated that 70% of Australian species have not been discovered and classified and that there may be 600,000 Australian native species.
australia: High immigration was justified to Australians using the slogan "populate or perish", and from the 1960s the white Australia policy was gradually relaxed.
australia: It has increased in popularity among non-Indigenous Australians since the 1970s, with examples such as lemon myrtle, the macadamia nut and kangaroo meat now widely available.
australia: The name Australia was popularised by the explorer Matthew Flinders, who circumnavigated the continent in 1803.
australia: The party with majority support in the House of Representatives forms the government and its leader becomes prime minister.
australia: Australia took over the administration of the Territory of Papua (previously British New Guinea) in 1905 and of the Territory of New Guinea (formerly German New Guinea) in 1920.
australia: Most early settlers were convicts, transported for petty crimes and assigned as labourers or servants to "free settlers" (willing immigrants).
australia: The oldest Australian surface rocks date to the Archaean period.
australia: In 2022–23, 212,789 permanent migrants were admitted to Australia, with a net migration population gain of 518,000 people inclusive of non-permanent residents.
australia: The population is heavily concentrated on the east coast, and in particular in the south-eastern region between South East Queensland to the north-east and Adelaide to the south-west.
australia: Since 2014, a national curriculum developed by the Commonwealth has been implemented by the states and territories.
australia: According to the 2022 PISA evaluations, Australian 15-year-olds ranked ninth in the OECD for reading and science and tenth for maths.
australia: Pre-colonial land interests (referred to as native title in Australia) was recognised in law for the first time when the High Court of Australia held in Mabo v Queensland (No 2) that Australia was not terra nullius ('land belonging to no one') at the time of European settlement.
australia: The National Indigenous Languages Survey (NILS) for 2018–19 found that more than 120 Indigenous language varieties were in use or being revived, although 70 of those in use were endangered.
australia: Aboriginal Australian culture is one of the oldest continuous cultures on Earth.
australia: However, when his account of his voyage was published in 1814, the name Terra Australis was used.
australia: In 1914, Australia joined the Allies in the First World War, and took part in the fighting on several fronts.
australia: The Senate and most state upper houses use the proportional system which combines preferential voting with proportional representation for each state.
australia: Surrounded by the Indian and Pacific oceans, Australia is separated from Asia by the Arafura and Timor seas, with the Coral Sea lying off the Queensland coast, and the Tasman Sea lying between Australia and New Zealand.
australia: Thus, only 40 of the 76 places in the Senate are put to each election unless the cycle is interrupted by a double dissolution.
australia: The British claim was extended to the whole Australian continent in 1827 when Major Edmund Lockyer established a settlement on King George Sound (modern-day Albany).
australia: Australia also claims about 42% of Antarctica as the Australian Antarctic Territory, but this claim is only recognised by four other countries.
australia: Australia's wildlife show many adaptations to their environments.
australia: The lower house has a maximum term of three years, but this is not fixed and governments usually dissolve the house early for an election at some point in the 6 months before the maximum.
australia: British colonisation began in 1788 with the establishment of the penal colony of New South Wales.
australia: Its house prices are among the highest in the world, especially in the large urban areas.
australia: It is the 54th most populous country in the world and the most populous Oceanian country.
australia: The name "Commonwealth of Australia" for the new federation of the six former colonies was formalised in the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act 1900 (UK).
australia: It has a labour force of some 13.5 million, with an unemployment rate of 3.5% as of June 2022.
australia: Following Tasman's voyages, the Dutch were able to make almost complete maps of Australia's northern and western coasts and much of its southern and south-eastern Tasmanian coasts.
australia: Other major export markets include Japan, the United States, and South Korea.
australia: In the Senate (the upper house), there are 76 senators: twelve each from the states and two each from the mainland territories (the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory).
australia: NILS and the Australian Bureau of Statistics use different classifications for Indigenous Australian languages.
australia: The nation's trade relations also became increasingly oriented towards East Asia in the 21st century, with China becoming the nation's largest trading partner by a large margin.
australia: Forest cover is about 17% of Australia's land area.
australia: There are also about 320,500 invertebrate species, of which insects are the largest class, accounting for more than 75% of all animal species.
australia: Culturally and linguistically distinct from mainland Aboriginal peoples, they were seafarers and obtained their livelihood from seasonal horticulture and the resources of their reefs and seas.
australia: Parliament of Australia
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
National Archives of Australia
Australian Bureau of Statistics
Travel
australia: The oldest zircon crystals on Earth, dating back 4.4 billion years, have been found in Western Australia.
australia: Accordingly, in 2019, international students represented on average 26.7% of the student bodies of Australian universities.
australia: Australian English is a major variety of the language with a distinctive accent and lexicon, and differs slightly from other varieties of English in grammar and spelling.
australia: Metropolitan areas with more than one million inhabitants are Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
australia: When these powers may be exercised is governed by convention and their precise scope is unclear.
australia: The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade supports the executive in its policy decisions.
australia: Australian placental mammals (overwhelmingly bats, rats and mice) also make up almost 47% of the world's land mammal species.
australia: Over the past two centuries, Australia has lost more mammal species than any other continent.
australia: Early colonial artists showed a fascination with the unfamiliar land.
australia: In common with many other developed countries, Australia is experiencing a demographic shift towards an older population, with more retirees and fewer people of working age.
australia: Australia is one of five nations to have participated in every Summer Olympics of the modern era, and has hosted the Games twice: 1956 in Melbourne and 2000 in Sydney.
australia: Australia is a middle power, whose foreign relations has three core bi-partisan pillars: commitment to the US alliance, engagement with the Indo-Pacific and support for international institutions, rules and co-operation.
australia: Licensed under CC BY-SA IGO 3.0.
australia: Many of Australia's performing arts companies receive funding through the Australian government's Australia Council.
australia: In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, from March 2020 lockdowns and other restrictions on public gatherings and movement across the national and state borders were implemented by the Federal, state and territory governments.
australia: Elections for both chambers are generally held simultaneously with senators having overlapping six-year terms except for those from the territories, whose terms are not fixed but are tied to the electoral cycle for the lower house.
australia: The landscape remained central to the work of Aboriginal watercolourist Albert Namatjira, as well as Fred Williams, Brett Whiteley and other post-war artists whose works, eclectic in style yet uniquely Australian, moved between the figurative and the abstract.
australia: Australia has over 15,000 known species of fungi, although it is possible that tens of thousands more exist.
australia: At 2,228 m (7,310 ft), Mount Kosciuszko is the highest mountain on the mainland.
australia: The Great Barrier Reef, the world's largest coral reef, lies a short distance off the north-east coast and extends for more than 2,300 km (1,400 mi).
australia: As settlement expanded, tens of thousands of Indigenous people and thousands of settlers were killed in frontier conflicts, which many historians argue included acts of genocide by settlers.
australia: 38% of Australia's population has attained a higher education qualification, which is among the highest percentages in the world.
australia: Soccer, while ranked fourth in television viewers and resources, has the highest overall participation rates.
australia: Australian literature grew slowly in the decades following European settlement though Indigenous oral traditions, many of which have since been recorded in writing, are much older.
australia: When the Dutch began visiting and mapping Australia in the 17th century, they called the continent New Holland.
australia: The most notable exercise of these powers was the dismissal of the Whitlam government in the constitutional crisis of 1975.
australia: Major Australian intelligence agencies include the Australian Secret Intelligence Service (foreign intelligence), the Australian Signals Directorate (signals intelligence) and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (domestic security).
australia: Similarly, the Parliament does not play a formal role in foreign policy and the power to declare war lies solely with the executive government.
australia: English has no legal status in Australia but it is the de facto official and national language due to its widespread established use.
australia: Australia ranked 22nd in the Global Innovation Index 2025.
australia: Currently, volcanism occurs in the remote Heard Island and McDonald Islands.
australia: The mainland is relatively stable geologically, with no major mountain building, active volcanoes or tectonic faults.
australia: Australia has six states – New South Wales (NSW), Victoria (Vic), Queensland (Qld), Western Australia (WA), South Australia (SA) and Tasmania (Tas) – and two mainland self-governing territories – the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) and the Northern Territory (NT).
australia: Australia's mixed-market economy is highly developed and rich in natural resources.
australia: Its population of almost 29 million is highly urbanised and heavily concentrated on the eastern seaboard.
australia: Within Australian political culture, the Labor Party is considered centre-left and the Coalition is considered centre-right.
australia: International education therefore represents one of the country's largest exports and has a pronounced influence on the country's demographics, with a significant proportion of international students remaining in Australia after graduation on various skill and employment visas.
australia: The number of tropical cyclones has fallen since 1982 and alpine snow has decreased since the late 1950s.
australia: Australia has high levels of competitiveness and economic freedom, and was ranked tenth in the Human Development Index in 2022.
australia: It has the highest rate of skin cancer in the world, while cigarette smoking is the largest preventable cause of death and disease, responsible for 7.8% of the total mortality and disease.
australia: Most of Australia is arid or semi-arid.
australia: Formerly part of the Rodinia and Gondwana supercontinents, Australia completely separated from Antarctica about 35 million years ago and continued drifting northwards.
australia: The first colonists introduced British and Irish cuisine to the continent.
australia: However, the Australian plate is moving north-northeast at a rate of about 6 to 7 cm a year and is currently in collision with the Eurasian plate and Pacific plate.
australia: From 1939 to 1945, Australia joined the Allies in fighting the Second World War.
australia: The federal Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 is the legal framework for the protection of threatened species.
australia: By the time of British settlement, Aboriginal Australians spoke more than 250 distinct languages and had one of the oldest living cultures in the world.
australia: The mainland is the world's smallest continent and the country is the sixth-largest by total area.
australia: It ranks highly for quality of life, health, education, economic freedom, civil liberties and political rights.
australia: The states manage hospitals and attached outpatient services, while the Commonwealth funds the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (subsidising the costs of medicines) and general practice.
australia: The koala is an exception, specialising in feeding on eucalyptus leaves.
australia: It has 35,877 km (22,293 mi) of coastline (excluding all offshore islands), and claims an exclusive economic zone of 8,148,250 square kilometres (3,146,060 sq mi).
australia: The coastal south is temperate and humid with winter freezing and snow in the southeastern highlands and Tasmania.
australia: Contemporary Australian culture is diverse and reflects the country's Indigenous traditions, British and Irish heritage, and post-1945 history of multicultural immigration.
australia: The power over foreign policy is highly concentrated in the prime minister and the national security committee, with major decision such as joining the 2003 invasion of Iraq made without prior Cabinet approval.
australia: Australia ranked fourth in the Center for Global Development's 2021 Commitment to Development Index.
australia: Australia has no state religion; section 116 of the Australian Constitution prohibits federal legislation
that would establish any religion, impose any religious observance, or prohibit the free exercise of any religion.
australia: The OECD places Australia among the most expensive nations to attend university.
australia: Australia is a middle power, and has the world's thirteenth-highest military expenditure.
australia: CSIRO, Australia's national science agency, contributes 10% of all research in the country, while the rest is carried out by universities.
australia: About 94% of its amphibians, 93% of its reptiles and flowering plants, 69% of its mammals and 46% of its birds are endemic.
australia: Following the end of the White Australia policy in 1973, Australia adopted multiculturalism as policy, culminating in the Racial Discrimination Act 1975.
australia: It is a member of international groups including: the United Nations, the G20, the OECD, the World Trade Organization, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, the Pacific Islands Forum, the Pacific Community and the Commonwealth of Nations.
australia: The Australian Defence Force is the military wing, headed by the chief of the defence force, and contains three branches: the Royal Australian Navy, the Australian Army and the Royal Australian Air Force.
australia: Cyclones and rain depressions are common in tropical Australia.
australia: On 1 January 1901, federation of the colonies was achieved after a decade of planning, constitutional conventions and referendums, resulting in the establishment of the Commonwealth of Australia as a nation under the new Australian Constitution.
australia: The Dreaming established the laws and structures of society and the ceremonies performed to ensure continuity of life and land.
australia: Tensions over communist influence in society led to unsuccessful attempts by the Menzies Government to ban the Communist Party of Australia, and a bitter split in the Labor Party in 1955.
australia: Following the abolition of the last vestiges of the White Australia policy in 1973, Australia's demography and culture transformed as a result of a large and ongoing wave of non-European immigration, mostly from Asia.
australia: By the mid-19th century, most of the continent had been explored by European settlers and five additional self-governing British colonies were established, each gaining responsible government by 1890.
australia: While it was being constructed, Melbourne served as the temporary capital from 1901 to 1927.
australia: Separate colonies were carved from New South Wales: Tasmania in 1825, South Australia in 1836, Victoria in 1851, and Queensland in 1859.
australia: A member of the Western Bloc during the Cold War, Australia participated in the Korean War and the Malayan Emergency during the 1950s and the Vietnam War from 1962 to 1973.
australia: About 10% of the world's known plant species are found in Australia.
australia: At the beginning of the 20th century, Nellie Melba was one of the world's leading opera singers, and later popular music acts such as the Bee Gees, AC/DC, INXS and Kylie Minogue achieved international recognition.
australia: The culture of the United States has also been influential.
australia: Ballet and dance are represented by The Australian Ballet and various state companies.
australia: The large service sector accounts for about 71.2% of total GDP, followed by the industrial sector (25.3%), while its agriculture sector makes up 3.6% of total GDP.
australia: Australia has five cities (including their suburbs) that have populations larger than one million people.
australia: Australian public intellectuals have also written seminal works in their respective fields, including feminist Germaine Greer and philosopher Peter Singer.
australia: It attracted 9.5 million international tourists in 2019, and was ranked thirteenth among the countries of Asia-Pacific in 2019 for inbound tourism.
australia: Australia ranked 35th in the world in 2012 for its proportion of obese women and near the top of developed nations for its proportion of obese adults; 63% of its adult population is either overweight or obese.
australia: The governor-general appoints the prime minister and may dismiss one who has lost the confidence of parliament or acts illegally.
australia: The Story of the Kelly Gang (1906), the world's first feature-length narrative film, spurred a boom in Australian cinema during the silent film era.
australia: Between 1788 and the Second World War, the vast majority of settlers and immigrants came from the British Isles (principally England, Ireland and Scotland), although Australia had significant immigration from China and Germany during the 19th century.
australia: Its first recipient, Patrick White, went on to win the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1973.
australia: A 2022 study by the industry lobby group, The Tech Council of Australia, stated that the Australian technology sector combined contributes $167 billion a year to the economy and employs 861,000 people.
australia: There is a symphony orchestra in each state, and a national opera company, Opera Australia, well known for its famous soprano Joan Sutherland.
australia: South Australia and Victoria were founded as free colonies – they never accepted transported convicts.
australia: Education is primarily the responsibility of the individual states and territories; however, the Commonwealth has significant influence through funding agreements.
australia: Since 1951, Australia has maintained a mutual security alliance with the United States under the ANZUS treaty.
australia: Australia is a parliamentary democracy with a constitutional monarchy, and a federation comprising six states and ten territories.
australia: The Australian Bureau of Statistics asks each Australian resident to nominate up to two ancestries each census and the responses are classified into broad ancestry groups.
australia: Australia's armed forces fought in the Pacific, European and Mediterranean and Middle East theatres.
australia: Indigenous Australians comprise two broad groups:
australia: In 2021–22, Australia's generation of electricity was sourced from black coal (37.2%), brown coal (12%), natural gas (18.8%), hydro (6.5%), wind (11.1%), solar (13.3%), bio-energy (1.2%) and others (1.7%).
australia: In June 2021, over 1,000 animal and plant species were listed by Australian governments as endangered or critically endangered.
australia: The National Reserve System is Australia's network of protected areas.
australia: Australia's electoral system uses preferential voting for the House of Representatives and all state and territory lower house elections (with the exception of Tasmania and the ACT which use the Hare-Clark system).
australia: The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office used the new name in The Australia Directory of 1830.
australia: There were 18 earthquakes with a moment magnitude of greater than 6 between 1901 and 2017.
australia: Australia maintains a deeply integrated relationship with neighbouring New Zealand, with free mobility of citizens between the two countries under the Trans-Tasman Travel Arrangement and free trade under the Closer Economic Relations agreement.
australia: At the Commonwealth level, the King's representative is the governor-general.
australia: In the Indo-Pacific, the country seeks to increase its trade ties through the open flow of trade and capital, while managing the rise of Chinese power by supporting the existing rules-based order.
australia: Australia's written history commenced with Dutch exploration of most of the coastline in the 17th century.
australia: Voting and enrolment is compulsory for all enrolled citizens 18 years and older in every jurisdiction.
australia: General Australian serves as the standard dialect.
australia: Australia spent about 9.91% of its total GDP to health care in 2021.
australia: In general, knowledge of vertebrates and flowering plants is better than for invertebrates and fungi.
australia: The Australian national cricket team competed against England in both the first Test match (1877) and the first One Day International (1971), and against New Zealand in the first Twenty20 International (2004), winning all three games.
australia: Aboriginal Australians cultures were (and remain) deeply connected with the land and the environment, with stories of The Dreaming maintained through oral tradition, songs, dance and paintings.
australia: British colonial authorities did not sign any treaties with Aboriginal groups.
australia: The colonial parliaments progressively extended voting rights to adult men from 1856, with women's suffrage on equal terms following between the 1890s and 1900s.
australia: Australia has a wide range of ecosystems of which 89 regions and 419 subregions are recognised in the Australian bioregion framework.
australia: It is also set to host the 2032 Games in Brisbane.
australia: It has also won the men's Cricket World Cup a record six times.
australia: Sea levels are rising around Australia and the surrounding oceans are becoming more acidic.
australia: There are two major political groups that have usually formed government federally: the Australian Labor Party  and the Coalition which is a grouping of the Liberal Party and its minor partner, the National Party.
australia: Each major city has at least one daily newspaper, and there are two national daily newspapers, The Australian and The Australian Financial Review.
australia: Australia has generally strong protections for civil and political rights, and the country has signed up to a wide range of international rights treaties.
australia: However, about 80 per cent of Australia is covered by sedimentary rocks and regolith that are less than 250 million years old.
australia: Torres Strait Islander people first settled their islands at least 2,500 years ago.
australia: As of 2022, it is ranked twelfth in the Index of Economic Freedom.
australia: In the three decades following World War II, Australia experienced significant increases in living standards, leisure time and suburban development.
australia: The majority of Australia's population lives near coastlines.
australia: Once emancipated, convicts tended to integrate into colonial society.
australia: About 70% of the country is arid or semi-arid, and about 18% is desert.
australia: There were major extinctions of Australia's vertebrates, including its megafauna, about 46 thousand years ago, and there is an ongoing scientific debate over the role of human activity and climate change in these extinctions.
australia: In 2021, Australia had 10% of the global permanent meadows and pastureland.
australia: Australia adopted it in 1942, but it was backdated to 1939 to confirm the validity of legislation passed during World War II.
australia: In 2021, just under 8,000 people declared an affiliation with traditional Aboriginal religions.
australia: In 2024, Reporters Without Borders placed Australia 39th on a list of 180 countries ranked by press freedom, behind New Zealand (19th) and the United Kingdom (23rd), but ahead of the United States (55th).
australia: Mainland Australia lies between latitudes 9° and 44° south, and longitudes 112° and 154° east.
australia: At the 2021 census, 38.9% of the population identified as having no religion, up from 15.5% in 2001.
australia: However, less than 60% of Australian students achieved the National Proficiency Standard – 51% in maths, 58% in science and 57% in reading.
australia: Each state has a publicly funded theatre company.
australia: It is uncertain how many waves of immigration may have contributed to these ancestors of modern Aboriginal Australians.
australia: About two-thirds of the world's 330 species of marsupials are native to Australia.
australia: For example, the extinct thylacine (Tasmanian tiger) had similarities with the placental wolf, marsupial moles with the golden moles of Africa, and hopping mice with the hopping rodents of other arid regions.
australia: Australia has professional leagues for four football codes, whose relative popularity is divided geographically.
australia: In the 19th century, Henry Lawson and Banjo Paterson captured the experience of the bush using a distinctive Australian vocabulary.
australia: Regionally, the country is a member of the Pacific Islands Forum, the Pacific Community, the ASEAN+6 mechanism and the East Asia Summit.
australia: Later that year, Luís Vaz de Torres sailed to the north of Australia through Torres Strait, along New Guinea's southern coast.
australia: The hottest regions are in the northwest of the country and the coolest in the southeast.
australia: The summer monsoon brings significant rainfall to northern Australia and low pressure cells bring winter rainfall in the south.
australia: Australia has also participated in every Commonwealth Games, hosting the event in 1938, 1962, 1982, 2006 and 2018.
australia: It introduced a national insurance scheme in 1975.
australia: It has a highly developed economy and one of the highest per capita incomes globally.
australia: About 58% of Australians aged from 25 to 64 have vocational or tertiary qualifications and the tertiary graduation rate of 49% is the highest among OECD countries.
australia: In 1803, a settlement was established in Van Diemen's Land (present-day Tasmania), and in 1813, Gregory Blaxland, William Lawson and William Wentworth crossed the Blue Mountains west of Sydney, opening the interior to European settlement.
australia: Governor of New South Wales Lachlan Macquarie officially recommended the name Australia to replace New Holland in December 1817.
australia: The colonies federated in 1901, forming the Commonwealth of Australia.
australia: In 1606 the crew of the Dutch ship, Duyfken, captained by Willem Janszoon, made the first documented European landing in Australia and contact with Aboriginal Australians.
australia: In the mid-19th century, explorers such as Burke and Wills charted Australia's interior.
australia: The Department of Defence is the civilian wing and is headed by the secretary of defence.
australia: Australia has 37 government-funded universities and three private universities, as well as a number of other specialist institutions that provide approved courses at the higher education level.
australia: In a film market flooded with foreign content, Australian films delivered a 7.7% share of the local box office in 2015.
australia: Rainfall has increased in northern Australia since the 1970s.
australia: Facilities supporting space exploration include the Square Kilometre Array and Australia Telescope Compact Array radio telescopes, telescopes such as the Siding Spring Observatory, and ground stations such as the Canberra Deep Space Communication Complex.
australia: Following Federation in 1901, the white Australia policy was strengthened, restricting further migration from these areas.
australia: Text taken from World Food and Agriculture – Statistical Yearbook 2023​, FAO, FAO.
australia: From 1901, Australia was a self-governing dominion within the British Empire.
australia: Deserts and xeric shrubland cover about 70% of the mainland.
australia: China is Australia's largest trading partner, accounting for roughly 40% of the country's exports and 17.6% of its imports.
australia: The 1808 Rum Rebellion, carried out by officers of the New South Wales Corp, led to a temporary military junta.
australia: The two were unified as the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in 1949 and gained independence from Australia in 1975.
australia: Abel Tasman's voyage of 1642 was the first known European expedition to reach Van Diemen's Land.
australia: International organisations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International have expressed concerns in areas including asylum-seeker policy, Indigenous deaths in custody, the lack of entrenched rights protection, and laws restricting protesting.
australia: When the Last Glacial Period ended, rising sea levels separated the Australian mainland from New Guinea about 8,000 years ago and from Tasmania about 6,000 years ago.
australia: In 2021, it had 84,865 currently serving personnel (including 60,286 regulars and 24,581 reservists).
australia: Australian government debt, about $963 billion in June 2022, exceeds 45.1% of the country's total GDP, and is the world's eighth-highest.
australia: However, there is a large concentration of the population in cities along the temperate south-eastern coastline, and population density exceeds 38 inhabitants per square kilometre in central Melbourne.
australia: Agriculture also developed on some islands and villages appeared by the 1300s.
australia: As the leaves of most plants are poor in nutrients, Australia has a high proportion of birds, insects and marsupials, such as the honey possum, that feed on nectar and pollen.
australia: This article incorporates text from a free content work.
australia: More than 250 Australian Aboriginal languages are thought to have existed at the time of first European contact.
australia: Overall, the Australian mainland is the driest inhabited continent, with an average annual rainfall of 470 millimetres (19 in).
australia: Important documents protecting human rights include the Constitution, the Racial Discrimination Act 1975, the Sex Discrimination Act 1984, the Disability Discrimination Act 1992, and the Age Discrimination Act 2004.
australia: This influence is seen in dishes such as fish and chips, and in the Australian meat pie, which is related to the British steak pie.
australia: The House of Representatives (the lower house) has 150 members elected from single-member electoral divisions, commonly known as "electorates" or "seats", allocated to states on the basis of population, with each of the current states guaranteed a minimum of five seats.
australia: Many Australians regard the defeat of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) at Gallipoli in 1915 as the "baptism of fire" that forged the new nation's identity.
australia: The head of the government in each state is the premier and in each territory the chief minister.
australia: Pavlovas, lamingtons, Vegemite and Anzac biscuits are also often called iconic Australian foods.
australia: The indigenous population declined for 150 years following European settlement, mainly due to infectious disease.
australia: Aboriginal resistance, convict rebellions and bushranging were sometimes suppressed under martial law.
australia: Several 16th-century cartographers used the word Australia on maps, but not to identify modern Australia.
australia: In 1770, Captain James Cook sailed along and mapped the east coast, which he named "New South Wales" and claimed for Great Britain.
australia: The Australian climate ranges from wet tropical in the northeast and northwest to arid in the centre.
australia: The 2021 Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Report ranked Australia seventh-highest in the world out of 117 countries.
australia: This relatively low ranking is primarily because of the limited diversity of commercial media ownership in Australia; most print media are under the control of News Corp Australia (59%) and Nine Entertainment (23%).
australia: They named the continent New Holland.
australia: Australia's population is concentrated on the coastal fringes.
australia: Of the 324,000 men who served overseas, about 60,000 were killed and another 152,000 were wounded.
australia: On 26 January 1788, the First Fleet commanded by Captain Arthur Phillip, arrived at Sydney Cove, Port Jackson.
australia: Overall, 100 Australian species are listed as extinct or extinct in the wild.
australia: Certain groups engaged in fire-stick farming, fish farming, and built semi-permanent shelters.
australia: Its international tourism receipts in 2019 amounted to $45.7 billion.
australia: The volunteer lifesaver is one of the country's icons.
australia: The Australian mainland is relatively flat, with an average height of 325 metres (1,066 ft) compared with 870 metres (2,850 ft) for all continents.
australia: Some colonies introduced racial restrictions on voting from 1885.
australia: These practices have variously been characterised as "hunter-gatherer", "agricultural", "natural cultivation" and "intensification".
australia: Australia has a population density of 3.4 persons per square kilometre of total land area, which makes it one of the most sparsely populated countries in the world.
australia: Many Australians identify egalitarianism, mateship, irreverence and a lack of formality as part of their national identity.
australia: It is a megadiverse country, and its size gives it a wide variety of landscapes and climates including deserts in the interior and tropical rainforests along the coast.
australia: As of 2021, Australia has the second-highest amount of wealth per adult, after Luxembourg, and the thirteenth-highest financial assets per capita, as well as one of the highest per capita incomes globally.
australia: The Swan River Colony (present-day Perth) was established in 1829, evolving into the largest Australian colony by area, Western Australia.
australia: These two leaders collective manage Defence as a diarchy, with shared and joint responsibilities.
australia: The most favourably viewed countries by the Australian people in 2021 include New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Japan, Germany, Taiwan, Thailand, the United States and South Korea.
australia: At the time of first European contact, Aboriginal Australians belonged to wide range of societies, with diverse economies spread across at least 250 different language groups.
australia: About 95% of the population lives within 100 km of the coast; the world average is 39%.
australia: The largest Christian denominations are the Catholic Church (20% of the population) and the Anglican Church of Australia (9.8%).
australia: Most Indigenous Australian groups subsisted on a diet of native fauna and flora, otherwise called bush tucker.
australia: The next most common languages spoken at home were Mandarin (2.7%), Arabic (1.4%), Vietnamese (1.3%), Cantonese (1.2%) and Punjabi (0.9%).
australia: It also estimated that there were 774,000 (17.7%) children under the age of 15 living in relative poverty.
australia: The Great Dividing Range runs along most of eastern Australia, dividing the central lowlands from the eastern highlands.
australia: In the performing arts, Aboriginal peoples have traditions of religious and secular song, dance and rhythmic music often performed in corroborees.
australia: The Australian Greens have been the third largest party by both vote and membership since 2004.
australia: However, a 2011–2012 report for the Australian Bureau of Statistics found that 44% of the population does not have high literary and numeracy competence levels, interpreted by others as suggesting that they do not have the "skills needed for everyday life".
australia: In 2020, Australia produced 27.7% of its electricity from renewable sources, exceeding the target set by the Commonwealth government in 2009 of 20% renewable energy by 2020.
australia: The Australia Acts of 1986 severed the remaining constitutional ties between Australia and the United Kingdom while maintaining the monarch in her independent capacity as Queen of Australia.
australia: During the next two decades, social and economic reforms, together with the establishment of a Legislative Council and Supreme Court, saw the penal colony transition to a civil society.
australia: By the mid-18th century in northern Australia, contact, trade and cross-cultural engagement had been established between local Aboriginal groups and Makassan trepangers, visiting from present-day Indonesia.
australia: Since Federation, the Commonwealth's power relative to the states has significantly increased due to the increasingly wide interpretation given to listed Commonwealth powers – and because of the states' heavy financial reliance on Commonwealth grants.
australia: Australia is one of 17 megadiverse countries.
australia: Independent members and several minor parties have achieved representation in Australian parliaments, mostly in upper houses.
australia: Australia is also highly urbanised, with 67% of the population living in the Greater Capital City Statistical Areas (metropolitan areas of the state and mainland territorial capital cities) in 2018.
australia: Australian Booker Prize winners include Peter Carey, Thomas Keneally and Richard Flanagan.
australia: Initially a free colony, Western Australia accepted convicts from 1850 to 1868.
australia: The Madjedbebe rock shelter in Arnhem Land is possibly the oldest site showing the presence of humans in Australia.
australia: The governor-general may in some situations exercise reserve powers: powers exercisable in the absence of, or contrary to, ministerial advice.
australia: As at 30 June 2022, it covered over 22% of Australia's land mass.
australia: On his second voyage of 1644, he mapped the north coast of Australia south of New Guinea.
australia: The beginning of the campaign is commemorated annually on Anzac Day, a date which rivals Australia Day as the nation's most important.
australia: Through the ANZUS pact and its status as a major non-NATO ally, Australia maintains a close relationship with the US, which encompasses strong defence, security and trade ties.
australia: There were active volcanoes on the eastern mainland as recently as 4,600 years ago, and this is reflected in Aboriginal place names and creation stories.
australia: Education is Australia's third-largest export, after iron ore and coal, and contributed more than $28 billion to the economy in the 2016–17 financial year.
australia: In some states (Western Australia, Northern Territory and New South Wales), children aged 16–17 are required to either attend school or participate in vocational training, such as an apprenticeship.
australia: Australia had the second-highest level of household debt in the world in 2020, after Switzerland.
australia: Acacia, banksia and eucalypts have spread over much of Australia.
australia: Governments encouraged a large wave of immigration from across Europe and called these migrants "New Australians".
australia: Australia lies well within the Australian tectonic plate.
australia: There is, however, evidence of convergent evolution of Australia's marsupials and the placental mammals of other continents living in similar environments.
australia: The two main institutions involved in the management of Australia's armed forces are the Australian Defence Force (ADF) and the Department of Defence, together known as "Defence".
australia: Originating in Melbourne in the 1850s, Australian rules football attracts the most television viewers in all states except New South Wales and Queensland, where rugby league holds sway, followed by rugby union.
australia: The country has maintained its mostly unchanged constitution alongside a stable liberal democratic political system since Federation in 1901.
australia: The climate is influenced by Australia's position in the "horse latitudes", which tends to bring arid conditions.
australia: Post-war migrants transformed Australian cuisine, bringing with them their culinary traditions and contributing to new fusion dishes.
australia: In 1786, the British government announced its intention to establish a penal colony in New South Wales.
australia: The Australian continental crust was created in three cycles from the oldest Archaean cratons in the west to the younger orogenic formations in the east (built about 541 million to 252 million years ago).
australia: The Northern Territory was transferred from South Australia to the Commonwealth in 1911.
australia: Miles Franklin is the namesake of Australia's most prestigious literary prize, awarded annually to the best novel about Australian life.
australia: While the school remained influential into the 1900s, modernists such as Margaret Preston and Clarice Beckett, and, later, Sidney Nolan, explored new artistic trends.
australia: Australia's rivers have the lowest discharge into the sea of any continent.
australia: The major threats to endangered species are landscape change, ecosystem disruption, introduced species such as the feral cat and red fox, and climate change.
australia: Salinisation adversely affects Australia's soil which is, on average, poor in nutrients compared with world standards.
australia: From 1886, Australian colonial governments began removing many Aboriginal children from their families and communities, justified on the grounds of child protection and forced assimilation policies.
australia: Australia is the world's 21st-largest exporter and 24th-largest importer.
australia: The remote Macquarie Island and Lord Howe Island are part of Tasmania and New South Wales respectively.
australia: At the 2021 census, 3.8% of the Australian population identified as being Indigenous – Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islanders.
australia: From 2012 to 2022, the energy sourced from renewables has increased 5.7%, while energy sourced from coal has decreased 2.6%.
australia: Many of these have adapted to the arid climate, variable rainfall and nutrient-poor soil.
australia: However, the states still retain the power to pass religiously discriminatory laws.
australia: Australia's culture is diverse, and the country has one of the highest foreign-born populations in the world.
australia: Australia consists of the mainland Australian continent, the island of Tasmania, numerous smaller offshore islands, and the remote offshore territories of Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard and McDonald Islands, and Norfolk Island.
australia: The Second Boer War (1899–1902) marked the largest overseas deployment of Australia's colonial forces.
australia: The Australian Capital Territory was formed in 1911 as the location for the future federal capital of Canberra.
australia: There has been a reduction in rainfall from April to October in southern Australia since 1970 and a longer bushfire season since the 1950s.
australia: Many plants have hard and long-living leaves, and are rich in carbon, poor in nutrients, and well adapted to bushfires.
australia: However, this policy was relaxed following WW2, and in the decades following, Australia received a large wave of immigration from across Europe, with many more immigrants arriving from Southern and Eastern Europe than in previous decades.
australia: It led the formation of the Cairns Group and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, and is a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the World Trade Organization (WTO).
australia: Federal government power is partially separated between three groups:
australia: The population of Australia is estimated to be 27,724,744 as of September 2025.
australia: Australia has more than 100,000 Aboriginal rock art sites, and traditional designs, patterns and stories infuse contemporary Indigenous Australian art, "the last great art movement of the 20th century" according to critic Robert Hughes; its exponents include Emily Kame Kngwarreye.
australia: Attendance rules vary between states, but in general children are required to attend school from the age of about 5 until about 16.
australia: These find expression in Australian slang, as well as Australian humour, which is often characterised as dry, irreverent and ironic.
australia: Australia's life expectancy of 83 years (81 years for males and 85 years for females) is the fifth-highest in the world.
australia: Following the September 11 attacks in the United States, Australia joined the United States in fighting the Afghanistan War from 2001 to 2021 and the Iraq War from 2003 to 2009.
australia: Its abundant natural resources and well-developed international trade relations are crucial to the country's economy.
australia: The states have the general power to make laws except in the few areas where the constitution grants the Commonwealth (the federal level of government) exclusive powers.
australia: The most popular sports in Australia by adult participation are: swimming, athletics, cycling, soccer, golf, tennis, basketball, surfing, netball and cricket.
australia: Subsequently, there has been a large and continuing wave of immigration from across the world, with Asia being the largest source of immigrants in the 21st century.
australia: The Australian dollar is the national currency, which is also used by three island states in the Pacific: Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu.
australia: This reflects the country's generally strong commitment to multilateralism.
australia: Australia also participates in the defence, intelligence and security alliances ANZUS, AUKUS and Five Eyes.
australia: Australia has about 10% of the world's known reptile species.
australia: With only 0.3% of the world's population, Australia contributed over 4% of the world's published research in 2020, making it one of the top 10 research contributors in the world.
australia: Ranked second in preventable causes is hypertension at 7.6%, with obesity third at 7.5%.
australia: Settlers dispossessed surviving Indigenous peoples of most of their land.
australia: The 2021 census found that 167 Indigenous languages were spoken at home by 76,978 Indigenous Australians – Yumplatok (Torres Strait Creole), Djambarrpuyngu (a Yolŋu language) and Pitjantjatjara (a Western Desert language) were among the most widely spoken.
australia: The King is represented in each state by a governor.
australia: The 1860s saw the rise of blackbirding, where South Sea Islanders were coerced or abducted into indentured labour, mainly by Queensland colonists.
australia: The late 20th century also saw an increasing focus on foreign policy ties with other Asia–Pacific nations.
australia: Australia's Strategy for Nature 2024–2030 is the national biodiversity plan that aims to reverse biodiversity loss in Australia by 2030 and meet the county's obligations under the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and other international agreements.
australia: Australia is a constitutional monarchy, a parliamentary democracy and a federation.
australia: In 2022, defence spending was 1.9% of GDP, representing the world's 13th-largest defence budget.
australia: At the 2021 census, the most commonly nominated individual ancestries as a proportion of the total population were:
australia: The mainland's flat, arid profile also makes its rivers slow-moving, resulting in a build up of salt on the land.
australia: Official website of Tourism Australia
australia: At the 2021 census, English was the only language spoken in the home for 72% of the population.
australia: Some in Western Australia are older than 3.7 billion years and others in South Australia are over 3.1 billion years old.
