bangladesh: Bangladesh consists of eight divisions, 64 districts, 500 sub-districts, and 4,599 union councils, and is home to the largest mangrove forest in the world.
bangladesh: The Ministry of Primary and Mass Education is responsible for implementing policy for primary education and state-funded schools at a local level.
bangladesh: It maintains the third-largest military in South Asia and is the largest contributor to the peacekeeping operations of the United Nations.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is an ethnically and culturally homogeneous society, as Bengalis form 99% of the population.
bangladesh: Bangladesh plays a major role in global climate diplomacy as a leader of the Climate Vulnerable Forum.
bangladesh: Recently, Bangladesh has focused on promoting regional trade and transport links with support from the World Bank.
bangladesh: Pohela Falgun coincides with Valentine's Day, and is celebrated with a display of music, dance and other cultural activities.
bangladesh: Theatre in Bangladesh includes various forms with a history dating back to the 4th century CE.
bangladesh: Freedom of the press remains a major concern due to government attempts at censorship and the harassment of journalists.
bangladesh: Islam the largest religion across the country, being followed by about 91.1% of the population.
bangladesh: The Last Kiss, the first full-length feature film, was released in 1931.
bangladesh: In 2020, the Bangladesh national under-19 cricket team won the men's Under-19 Cricket World Cup.
bangladesh: As the largest subdivision of the Mughal Empire, the region of Bengal emerged one of the most prosperous and commercially active areas of the world, known for its thriving textile industry and agricultural productivity.
bangladesh: Alaol, considered a bard, is a prolific poet of medieval period.
bangladesh: Khulna is known for using chui jhal (piper chaba) in its meat-based dishes.
bangladesh: Starting in the 1950s, Bengali nationalists used the term in political rallies in East Pakistan.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is divided into eight administrative divisions, each named after its headquarters: Barisal (officially Barishal), Chittagong (officially Chattogram), Dhaka, Khulna, Mymensingh, Rajshahi, Rangpur, and Sylhet.
bangladesh: Other major writers include Akhteruzzaman Elias, Shawkat Osman and Syed Shamsul Haq.
bangladesh: This is also mentioned in Ghulam Husain Salim's Riyaz-us-Salatin.
bangladesh: By the 18th century, the Bengal Subah emerged as the wealthiest province of the empire and was described as the "Paradise of Countries" and the "breadbasket of India".
bangladesh: Other major Hindu festivals include Krishna Janmashtami, Kali Puja, Saraswati Puja, and Ratha Yatra.
bangladesh: Notable human rights organisations and initiatives include the Centre for Law and Mediation, Odhikar, the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety, the Bangladesh Environmental Lawyers Association, the Bangladesh Hindu Buddhist Christian Unity Council and the War Crimes Fact Finding Committee.
bangladesh: The country is dominated by lush vegetation, with villages often buried in groves of mango, jackfruit, bamboo, betel nut, coconut, and date palm.
bangladesh: National University is the second-largest university in the world by enrolment.
bangladesh: Domestically tailored suits, neckties and pants are customarily worn by men at formal events, and the traditional sherwani and churidar are worn along with the turban in weddings.
bangladesh: The festival coincides with Makar Sankranti celebrated in India and Nepal.
bangladesh: Notable economists from East Pakistan, including Rehman Sobhan and Nurul Islam demanded a separate foreign exchange account for the eastern wing, also pointing to the existence of two different economies within Pakistan itself, dubbed the Two-Economies Theory.
bangladesh: The first great indigenous empire to cover the territory was the Maurya Empire (c.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's capital Dhaka and the largest city and is overseen by two city corporations that manage between them the northern and southern parts of the city.
bangladesh: The cinema of Bangladesh dates back to a screening of a bioscope in 1898.
bangladesh: Folk music is accompanied by instruments such as the ektara, dotara, dhol, bansuri (a type of flute), mandira, khanjani, sarinda, khamak, dugdugi, juri, jhunjhuni and majira (a type of cymbal).
bangladesh: Independence Day is celebrated on 26 March to commemorate the proclamation of independence from Pakistan.
bangladesh: The University of Dhaka, established in 1921, is the oldest public university.
bangladesh: ISBN 978-1-139-50257-3.
bangladesh: Novera Ahmed is the pioneer of modernist sculpture in Bangladesh.
bangladesh: The catastrophic Great Bengal famine of 1770 caused between one ten million deaths, killing up to one-third of the total population of the Bengal Presidency.
bangladesh: The tenure of a parliamentary government is five years.
bangladesh: Kazi Nazrul Islam was a revolutionary poet who espoused political rebellion against colonialism and fascism.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is predominantly rich fertile flat land.
bangladesh: Some of the largest publicly traded companies in Bangladesh include BEXIMCO, BRAC Bank, BSRM, GPH Ispat, Grameenphone, Summit Group, and Square Pharmaceuticals.
bangladesh: Bangladesh shares an important bilateral and economic relationship with its largest neighbour, India, which is often strained by water politics of the Ganges and the Teesta, and the border killings of Bangladeshi civilians.
bangladesh: According to various reports Hasina and the Awami League Government, aided by cooperation with India, organized the 2009 Bangladesh Rifles revolt to kill capable army officers whom Hasina deemed a threat to her power destabilizing the Bangladesh Army and solidifying de facto one party rule.
bangladesh: There is a diglossia in which much of the population can understand or speak in Standard Colloquial Bengali, and in their regional dialect or language variety.
bangladesh: It is the eighth-most-populous country in the world, the fifth-most populous country in Asia, and the most densely populated large country in the world, with a headline population density of 1,265 people/km2 as of 2020.
bangladesh: During the Mughal rule, Jamdani, a unique design on fine muslin; was woven on Persian motifs in Dhaka.
bangladesh: The country is the third-most populous Muslim-majority state in the world and has the fourth-largest overall Muslim population.
bangladesh: Begum Rokeya is regarded as the pioneer feminist writer of Bangladesh.
bangladesh: Following over two decades of political repression and systemic racism from the West Pakistan–based government, East Pakistan experienced civil unrest with the 1971 non-cooperation movement, which led to the Bangladesh Liberation War following a violent government military operation.
bangladesh: The first movie post-Independence, Ora Egaro Jon, was directed by Chashi Nazrul Islam and released in 1972.
bangladesh: The vast majority of Bangladeshi citizens are Bengali Muslims, adhering to Sunni Islam.
bangladesh: Among the tribal communities in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, cooking with bamboo shoots is popular.
bangladesh: It also has 628 species of birds.
bangladesh: It plans to further increase it to 50 gigawatts by 2041.
bangladesh: The territory of modern Bangladesh was a stronghold of many Hindu and Buddhist dynasties in ancient history.
bangladesh: It also includes tropical and subtropical coniferous forests, a freshwater swamp forest, and mixed deciduous forests.
bangladesh: The autocratic Pakistani government then initiated Operation Searchlight on 25 March 1971 in response.
bangladesh: Although a peace accord was signed in 1997, the region remains militarised.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is home to most of the Sundarbans, the world's largest mangrove forest, covering an area of 6,000 square kilometres (2,300 sq mi) in the southwest littoral region.
bangladesh: Following Rahman's assassination in 1981, the ensuing decade was a military dictatorship under Hussain Muhammad Ershad that saw infrastructural development, devolution reforms, privatisation of nationalised industries and the declaration of Islam as the state religion in 1988.
bangladesh: It is gradually transitioning to a green economy and has the largest off-grid solar power programme in the world, benefiting 20 million people.
bangladesh: The Pakistan Armed Forces imposed martial law in 1958, following a coup d'état, with Ayub Khan establishing a dictatorship for over a decade.
bangladesh: In 2020, naturally regenerating forest covered 1,725,330 hectares (ha) and planted forest covered 158,070 hectares (ha).
bangladesh: Other eminent sculptors include Nitun Kundu, Syed Abdullah Khalid, Hamiduzzaman Khan, Shamim Sikder, Ferdousi Priyabhashini and Abdur Razzaque.
bangladesh: The Vaishnava Padavali movement was led by writers such as Vidyapati, Chandidas, Govindadas and Balarama Dasa.
bangladesh: The chital deer are widely seen in southwestern woodlands.
bangladesh: The education system is divided into five levels: primary (first to fifth grade), junior secondary (sixth to eighth grade), secondary (ninth and tenth grade), higher secondary (11th and 12th grade), and tertiary which is university level.
bangladesh: The Bengal Sultanate saw Islamic art evolve since the 14th century.
bangladesh: In Chittagong, dishes involving beef include kala bhuna and mezban, the latter being a traditionally popular feast, featuring the serving of mezbani gosht, a hot and spicy beef curry.
bangladesh: The Ganges unites with the Jamuna (main channel of the Brahmaputra) and later joins the Meghna, finally flowing into the Bay of Bengal.
bangladesh: Bangladesh archers Ety Khatun and Roman Sana won several gold medals winning all the 10 archery events (both individual and team events) in the 2019 South Asian Games.
bangladesh: Bangladesh pioneered the creation of SAARC, the preeminent forum for regional diplomacy on the Indian subcontinent.
bangladesh: Other Buddhist vihāras include Shalban Bihar in Mainamati and Bikrampur Vihara in Bikrampur.
bangladesh: The specialist surgical workforce was only 3 per 100,000 people, and there were about 5 community health workers per 1,000 people.
bangladesh: The Awami Muslim League was renamed as a more "secular" Awami League in 1953.
bangladesh: Various ministers form the bulk of the executive organ, overseeing government departments and forming policies.
bangladesh: In 2019, Bangladesh ratified the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
bangladesh: Andrew Kishore, another leading playback singer, is considered the "King of Playback".
bangladesh: The third pillar of the government is the judiciary organ, which is in charge of interpreting the law, resolving conflicts, and maintaining justice.
bangladesh: There has been concern about the shrinking space for independent civil society in recent years.
bangladesh: The Bangladesh Air Force has a small fleet of multi-role combat aircraft.
bangladesh: In 1950, the East Bengal Legislative Assembly enacted land reform, abolishing the Permanent Settlement and the zamindari system.
bangladesh: While Kabaddi is the national sport, Cricket is arguably the most popular sport in the country.
bangladesh: Hasina won her second, third and fourth consecutive terms in the 2014, 2018 and the 2024 general elections—all of which were shams and neither free nor fair.
bangladesh: ISBN 978-0-8133-3632-9.
bangladesh: Bengali Hindus form the country's second-largest religious minority and the third-largest Hindu community in the world.
bangladesh: Selina Hossain is a prolific female author in the modern era.
bangladesh: These include Chittagonian which is spoken in the southeastern region of Chittagong, Noakhali spoken in the southern district of Noakhali and Sylheti spoken in the northeastern region of Sylhet.
bangladesh: Freedom House has criticised the government for human rights abuses, the crackdown on the opposition, mass media, and civil society through politicised enforcement.
bangladesh: Other leading painters include SM Sultan, Mohammad Kibria, Safiuddin Ahmed, Shahabuddin Ahmed, Kanak Chanpa Chakma, Qayyum Chowdhury, Rashid Choudhury, Quamrul Hassan, Rafiqun Nabi and Syed Jahangir.
bangladesh: Apart from the various forms of Indian classical dances, including the Kathakali, Bharatanatyam, Odissi and Manipuri dances–native dance traditions have formed across the country.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is called the "Land of Rivers", as it is home to over 57 trans-boundary rivers, the most of any nation-state.
bangladesh: The Sundarbans tiger project and the Bangladesh Bear Project are among the key initiatives to strengthen conservation.
bangladesh: Universities are three general types: public (government-owned and funded by the University Grants Commission), private (privately owned universities) and international (operated and funded by international organisations).
bangladesh: Examples in Dhaka include the Bara Katra and Choto Katra in Old Dhaka, the Sat Gambuj Mosque in Mohammadpur and the Musa Khan Mosque in Curzon Hall.
bangladesh: Fazlul Huq swept aside the Muslim League in a landslide victory in the 1954 East Bengali legislative election.
bangladesh: Following a July Uprising against the authoritarian government, Hasina was forced to resign and flee to India on 5 August 2024.
bangladesh: ISBN 978-81-7648-469-5.
bangladesh: Other native lyric-based forms of folk music include bhatiali, bhawaiya, dhamail, kavigan, jarigan, sari gan, marfati, and gombhira.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has achieved remarkable feats in reducing its poverty rate, which has gone down from 80% in 1971, to 44.2% in 1991, and all the way down to 18.7% in 2022.
bangladesh: Bangladesh ranked 146th among 180 countries on Transparency International's 2018 Corruption Perceptions Index.
bangladesh: It has a coastline along the Bay of Bengal to its south and is separated from Bhutan and Nepal by the Siliguri Corridor, and from China by the Indian state of Sikkim to its north.
bangladesh: LGBT rights are frowned upon among social conservatives.
bangladesh: The Charyapada poems dating back to the 10th to 12th centuries are the oldest extant examples of the Bengali language.
bangladesh: The Nakshi Kantha, a centuries-old embroidery tradition for quilts in Bengal, is made throughout Bangladesh.
bangladesh: Lastly, students have to pass the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exam at grade twelve to apply for higher education or universities.
bangladesh: All function to ensure accountability, transparency and checks and balances.
bangladesh: Following the Muslim conquest in 1204, the region saw Sultanate and Mughal rule.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is in South Asia on the Bay of Bengal.
bangladesh: The media in Bangladesh is diverse, competitive, commercial and profitable.
bangladesh: The national cricket team participated in their first Cricket World Cup in 1999 and the following year was granted Test cricket status.
bangladesh: The Dhaka and Chittagong Stock Exchanges are the country's twin capital markets.
bangladesh: Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay wrote about the characteristics of the Bengali society.
bangladesh: The main causes of death are coronary artery disease, stroke, and chronic respiratory disease; comprising 62% and 60% of all adult male and female deaths, respectively.
bangladesh: Among them, Niaz Murshed was the first grandmaster in South Asia.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's parliament, government, and civil society have been at the forefront of international criticism against Myanmar for military operations against the Rohingya, and have demanded their right of return to Arakan.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's most notable achievements in football include the 2003 SAFF Gold Cup and 1999 South Asian Games.
bangladesh: Its ecology includes a long sea coastline, numerous rivers and tributaries, lakes, wetlands, evergreen forests, semi evergreen forests, hill forests, moist deciduous forests, freshwater swamp forests and flat land with tall grass.
bangladesh: English plays an important role in Bangladesh's judicial and educational affairs, due to the country's history as part of the British Empire.
bangladesh: Ahmed Sofa is regarded as the most important intellectual in the post-independence era.
bangladesh: The northeast and southeast are home to evergreen hill ranges.
bangladesh: The northeastern Sylhet region is home to haor wetlands, a unique ecosystem.
bangladesh: In 1997, Parliament passed legislation reserving three seats (out of 12) in every union for women.
bangladesh: In 2018, the Bangladesh women's national cricket team won the 2018 Women's Twenty20 Asia Cup.
bangladesh: Like many developing countries, institutional corruption is an issue of concern for Bangladesh.
bangladesh: It has the world's 36th-largest economy by nominal terms, and the 24th-largest by PPP.
bangladesh: Presidency was later transferred to Ziaur Rahman, who himself was assassinated in 1981.
bangladesh: At the industry's peak, about 80 movies were produced each year between 1996 and 2003, a number which has constantly declined thereafter.
bangladesh: Curries of beef, mutton, chicken and duck are commonly consumed, along with multiple types of bhortas (mashed vegetables), bhajis (stir fried vegetables) and tarkaris (curried vegetables).
bangladesh: Efforts to establish One-party socialism and a large famine in 1974 led to Mujib's assassination in 1975 following a significant decline in his popularity.
bangladesh: Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami became the main opposition party.
bangladesh: Urdu-speaking stranded Pakistanis were given citizenship by the Supreme Court in 2008.
bangladesh: In 2024, the active personnel strength of the Bangladesh Armed Forces was around 230,000, including the Air Force (21,000) and the Navy (27,000).
bangladesh: Its educational system is three-tiered and heavily subsidised, with the government operating many schools at the primary, secondary and higher secondary levels and subsidising many private schools.
bangladesh: According to the 2022 census Hindus form 7.95% of the total population.
bangladesh: All authorities unite to formulate policies, manage public services, and implement national development plans.
bangladesh: Christianity is the fourth-largest religion at 0.3%, followed mainly by a small Bengali Christian minority.
bangladesh: US companies like Chevron and General Electric supply around 55% of Bangladesh's domestic natural gas production and are among the largest investors in power projects.
bangladesh: Two dynasties ruled the independent Sultanate of Bengal consecutively, the Hussain Shahi dynasty and the Ilyas Shahi dynasty, with a brief reign of the House of Ganesha.
bangladesh: The courts have wide latitude in judicial review, and judicial precedent is supported by Article 111 of the constitution.
bangladesh: Bangladesh ranked 152nd out of the 180 countries listed in the 2026 World Press Freedom Index, among the lowest rankings in the world.
bangladesh: Milestones of the medieval age include the Mangal-Kāvyas.
bangladesh: It has a comparably high infant mortality rate (24 per 1,000 live births) and child mortality rate (29 per 1,000 live births).
bangladesh: A quarter of women are underweight and around 15% have short stature, while over half also suffer from anemia.
bangladesh: Mir Mosharraf Hossain was the first prominent Bengali Muslim writer.
bangladesh: Lalon, a fakir practising Sufism and sādhanā influenced the bauls.
bangladesh: North South University is often viewed as the leading private University of the nation.
bangladesh: The junior secondary students then give the Junior School Certificate (JSC) exam to get enrolled in ninth grade, while tenth-grade students have to pass the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exam to proceed to eleventh grade.
bangladesh: The Bangladesh Film Development Corporation was founded in Dhaka as the East Pakistan Film Development Corporation in 1957–1958, as the full-service film production studio.
bangladesh: 320–185 BC).
bangladesh: After the December 1970 elections, the Bengali-nationalist Awami League won 167 of 169 East Pakistani seats in the National Assembly.
bangladesh: It relies on multilateral diplomacy on issues like climate change, nuclear non-proliferation, trade policy and non-traditional security issues.
bangladesh: Following independence, the Mujib-led government engaged in large-scale corruption and mismanagement, leading to nationwide lawlessness and economic devastation.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is recognised to be one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change.
bangladesh: Bangladesh also hosts over 700,000 Rohingya refugees since 2017, giving it one of the largest refugee populations in the world.
bangladesh: The highest point in Bangladesh is the Saka Haphong, located near the border with Myanmar, with an elevation of 1,064 m (3,491 ft).
bangladesh: Indo-Saracenic architecture flourished during the British Raj, examples include the Curzon Hall of the University of Dhaka, the Chittagong Court Building, Rangpur Town Hall and Rajshahi College.
bangladesh: Amidst geographic expansion and economic prosperity, it was regarded by European and Chinese visitors as the "richest country to trade with".
bangladesh: Pakistan adopted a new constitution in 1956.
bangladesh: It is also attempting to join ASEAN as one of its top foreign policy goals.
bangladesh: The modern art movement in Bangladesh took shape in post-independence East Bengal, especially with the pioneering works of Zainul Abedin.
bangladesh: The Bengal Renaissance from the late 18th century to the early 20th century had a profound effect on modern Bengali literature.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is considered a middle power in global politics.
bangladesh: Kalai ruti, a type of rustic flatbread, is widely consumed in Chapai Nawabganj of Rajshahi.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's strategic importance in the eastern subcontinent hinges on its proximity to China, its frontier with Burma, the separation of mainland and northeast India, and its maritime territory in the Bay of Bengal.
bangladesh: Shamsur Rahman and Al Mahmud are considered two of the greatest Bangladeshi poets to have emerged in the late 20th century.
bangladesh: Others are Garo, Meitei, Kokborok and Rakhine.
bangladesh: Other highly consumed fishes include rohu, pangas, and tilapia.
bangladesh: In 1341, the independent Bengal Sultanate was established by Fakhruddin Mubarak Shah.
bangladesh: Straddling the Tropic of Cancer, Bangladesh's climate is tropical, with a mild winter from October to March and a hot, humid summer from March to June.
bangladesh: Education in Bangladesh is overseen by the Ministry of Education.
bangladesh: The hilsa is the national fish and is immensely popular.
bangladesh: Executive powers are largely vested in the Prime Minister, who is the head of government and oversees the cabinet.
bangladesh: Mayors are elected for five-year terms.
bangladesh: The northwest and central parts of the country are formed by the Madhupur and the Barind plateaus.
bangladesh: It is a middle power with the second-largest economy in South Asia.
bangladesh: Its telecommunications industry is one of the world's fastest growing, with 188.78 million cellphone subscribers at the end of November 2024.
bangladesh: The country has numerous species of amphibians (53), reptiles (139), marine reptiles (19) and marine mammals (5).
bangladesh: It is widely spoken and commonly understood, and is taught as a compulsory subject in all schools, colleges and universities, while the English-medium educational system is widely attended.
bangladesh: Both Eids are celebrated with the longest streak of national holidays.
bangladesh: Hasina was overthrown in a mass uprising on 5 August 2024.
bangladesh: Muzharul Islam is considered to be a pioneer of modernist movement in Bangladesh and South Asia.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is ranked "partly free" in Freedom House's Freedom in the World report, but its press freedom has deteriorated from "free" to "not free" in recent years due to increasing government pressure.
bangladesh: Public gatherings are observed at the Shaheed Minar and National Martyrs' Memorial during the three latter festivals to pay homage to the fallen martyrs.
bangladesh: Syed Waliullah was a notable novelist.
bangladesh: Bengal played a crucial role in the Industrial Revolution at the expense of an extraordinary capital flight and deindustrialisation following British colonial loot and the collapse of the Bengali textile industry.
bangladesh: The cyclones of 1970 and 1991 were particularly devastating, the latter killing approximately 140,000 people.
bangladesh: The military budget of Bangladesh accounts for 1.3% of GDP, amounting to US$4.3 billion in 2021.
bangladesh: Chittagong is the second-largest city and the busiest port of the country.
bangladesh: Previously, either Keokradong or Tazing Dong were considered the highest.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's economy is dominated by family-owned conglomerates and small and medium-sized businesses.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has a labour force of 71.4 million, which is the world's seventh-largest; with an unemployment rate of 3.6% as of 2024.
bangladesh: Northern and eastern Bangladesh is home to the Asian elephant, hoolock gibbon, Asian black bear and oriental pied hornbill.
bangladesh: To address the sea level rise threat in Bangladesh, the Bangladesh Delta Plan 2100 has been launched.
bangladesh: Bangladesh had a recorded population of 169.8 million in the 2022 census, which rose to 171.4 million as of 2023.
bangladesh: BUET is the premiere university for engineering education.
bangladesh: The origins of the term Bangla are unclear, with theories pointing to a Bronze Age proto-Dravidian tribe, and the Iron Age Vanga Kingdom.
bangladesh: Malnutrition is a major and persistent problem in Bangladesh, mainly affecting the rural regions, more than half of the population suffers from it.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is home to the fourth-largest Muslim population in the world.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has an abundance of wildlife in its forests, marshes, woodlands, and hills.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has five grandmasters in chess.
bangladesh: The vast majority of animals dwell within a habitat of 150,000 square kilometres (58,000 sq mi).
bangladesh: Water lilies and lotuses grow vividly during the monsoon season.
bangladesh: It has also given shelter to over a million Rohingya refugees fleeing the Rohingya genocide since 2017, which has strained its resources and highlighted its humanitarian commitments.
bangladesh: Most of Bangladesh's military equipment comes from China.
bangladesh: Other major industries include shipbuilding, pharmaceuticals, steel, electronics and leather goods.
bangladesh: Ruti, naan, paratha, luchi and bakarkhani are the main local breads.
bangladesh: The Supreme Court is the highest court, separated into the Appellate Division and the High Court Division.
bangladesh: Panam Nagar in Sonargaon exhibits architectural influence from the Sultanate, Mughal, British and hybrid colonial traditions.
bangladesh: The unicameral parliament has 350 MPs, including 300 elected on the first past the post system and 50 appointed to reserved seats for women's empowerment.
bangladesh: Notable Mughal-era forts include the Lalbagh Fort in Old Dhaka, the Idrakpur Fort in Munshiganj—and the Hajiganj Fort and the Sonakanda Fort in Narayanganj, respectively.
bangladesh: A nine-month-long bloody liberation war ensued, during which a genocide of ethnic Bengalis occurred.
bangladesh: Rapid urban growth has threatened natural habitats.
bangladesh: Its first unit, out of the two total units, is expected to go into operation in 2025.
bangladesh: The World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) reported in 2019 that the travel and tourism industry in Bangladesh directly generated 1,180,500 jobs in 2018 or 1.9% of the country's total employment.
bangladesh: As of 2021, some 2.36% of total GDP was attributed to healthcare, and domestic general government spending on healthcare was 16.88% of the total budget, while out-of-pocket expenditures made up the vast majority of the total budget, totalling roughly 73%.
bangladesh: It was second-leading cause of death and disability, costing the country roughly 4–4.4% of its total GDP.
bangladesh: After the 2026 general election the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) returned to power with Chairman Tarique Rahman being inaugurated as the Prime Minister of Bangladesh on 17 February 2026.
bangladesh: The first pillar of the government is the executive organ, which is entrusted with the administration of the country.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has a vast spread of desserts, including sweets such as the rôshogolla, roshmalai, chomchom, sondesh, mishti doi and kalojaam, and jilapi.
bangladesh: There are no elected officials at the divisional or district levels, and the administration comprises only government officials.
bangladesh: Women commonly wear the shalwar kameez accompanied by orna; while sari is worn on more formal events.
bangladesh: It is surrounded almost entirely by neighbouring India, and shares a small border with Myanmar to its southeast, though it lies very close to Nepal, Bhutan, and China.
bangladesh: The second pillar of the government is the legislative organ, also known as the Jatiya Sangsad (House of the Nation).
bangladesh: The country has 55 public, 115 private and 2 international universities.
bangladesh: Political relations with Middle Eastern countries are robust.
bangladesh: The Anti Corruption Commission was formed in 2004, and was active during the 2006–08 Bangladeshi political crisis, indicting many leading politicians, bureaucrats and businessmen for graft.
bangladesh: Lobsters, shrimps and dried fish (shutki) also play an important role in the local cuisines.
bangladesh: Direct elections are held in each union (or ward) for a chairperson and several members.
bangladesh: While Mujib was arrested by the Pakistani Army on 26 March 1971, freedom fighter Major Ziaur Rahman publicly broadcast the independence of Bangladesh on behalf of Mujib.
bangladesh: Khawaja Nazimuddin was East Bengal's first chief minister with Frederick Chalmers Bourne its governor.
bangladesh: It is influenced by the country's culture, religion and history.
bangladesh: Musical organisations and schools such as the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and Chhayanaut have played significant roles in preserving the traditions of Bengali folk music.
bangladesh: The first constituent assembly was dissolved in 1954.
bangladesh: The first instance of a national football team was the emergence of the Shadhin Bangla football team during the liberation war of 1971.
bangladesh: The western and eastern wings of the newly formed Pakistan were geographically separated by a distance of over 1,000 miles, which became the root cause of deep economic inequality.
bangladesh: In 2010, mountain climber Musa Ibrahim became the first Bangladeshi climber to conquer Mount Everest.
bangladesh: Bangladesh, from a Nation to a State.
bangladesh: There are 13 city corporations which hold mayoral elections: Dhaka South, Dhaka North, Chittagong, Comilla, Khulna, Mymensingh, Sylhet, Rajshahi, Barisal, Rangpur, Gazipur, Bogura and Narayanganj.
bangladesh: As part of the green transition, Bangladesh's industrial sector emerged as a leader in building green factories, with the country having the largest number of certified green factories in the world.
bangladesh: Following the return of the Awami League to power after the 2008 general election.
bangladesh: Bangladesh: Past and Present.
bangladesh: Football is the second-most popular sport in Bangladesh, following cricket.
bangladesh: In September 1998, Bangladesh saw the most severe flooding in modern history, after which two-thirds of the country went underwater, along with a death toll of 1,000.
bangladesh: It is the eighth-most populous country in the world and among the most densely populated with a population of almost 176 million within an area of 148,461 square kilometres (57,321 sq mi).
bangladesh: The presidency was then transferred to Ziaur Rahman, who re-established public order, industrialised agriculture, founded the Bangladesh Nationalist Party  and initiated the creation of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation.
bangladesh: Most of the population live in rural areas, with only 40% of the population living in urban areas as of 2023.
bangladesh: A new constitution was introduced in 1962, replacing the parliamentary system with a presidential and gubernatorial system (based on electoral college selection) known as "Basic Democracy".
bangladesh: Halwa, shemai and falooda, the latter two being a variation of vermicelli; are popular desserts during religious festivities.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is a lower-middle income mixed-market economy.
bangladesh: Recent excavations have also uncovered new evidence of pre-Islamic smaller temples which served the Hindu, Buddhist and Jain populations of the area.
bangladesh: The Mukti Bahini, with aid and assistance from Indian forces, waged a successful armed revolution; and, despite the Bangladesh genocide carried out by Pakistan, Bangladesh became a sovereign nation on 16 December 1971.
bangladesh: The 2007 South Asian floods ravaged areas across the country, leaving five million people displaced, with a death toll around 500.
bangladesh: It is estimated that by 2050, a three-foot rise in sea levels will inundate some 20% of the land and displace more than 30 million people.
bangladesh: The President is the ceremonial head of state, whose powers include signing bills passed by parliament into law, maintaining the government's stability and continuity, and fulfilling their duties as the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces and the chancellor of all universities.
bangladesh: Relations with neighbouring Myanmar have been severely strained since 2016–2017, after over 700,000 Rohingya refugees illegally entered Bangladesh.
bangladesh: Domestic spending generated 97.7% of direct travel and tourism gross domestic product (GDP) in 2012.
bangladesh: Bengal was then incorporated into the Delhi Sultanate (1206–1526 AD).
bangladesh: Several animals became extinct in Bangladesh during the last century, including the one-horned and two-horned rhinoceros and common peafowl.
bangladesh: It is led by the Chief Justice.
bangladesh: BUP is the largest public university affiliated with the armed forces.
bangladesh: Citizens elect the members of parliament (MPs).
bangladesh: Its citizens maintained some of the best standards of living in the world, as the region was a major global exporter and producer of cotton textiles (muslin in particular), silk and shipbuilding.
bangladesh: For the year 2015, 100% of the forest area was reported to be under public ownership.
bangladesh: Japan is Bangladesh's largest economic aid provider, and the two have a strategic and economic partnership.
bangladesh: Of the naturally regenerating forest 0% was reported to be primary forest (consisting of native tree species with no clearly visible indications of human activity) and around 33% of the forest area was found within protected areas.
bangladesh: Water bodies and wetland systems provide a habitat for many aquatic plants.
bangladesh: Sabina Yasmin and Runa Laila are considered two of the greatest female playback singers in the country.
bangladesh: Sukumari (The Good Girl), released in 1929, was the first film produced in Bangladesh.
bangladesh: During the Bengal Sultanate, medieval Bengali writers were influenced by Arabic and Persian literature.
bangladesh: Over the course of a century, 508 cyclones have affected the Bay of Bengal region, 17% of which are believed to have made landfall in Bangladesh.
bangladesh: In rural Bangladesh, several traditional indigenous sports such as Kabaddi, Boli Khela, Lathi Khela and Nouka Baich remain fairly popular.
bangladesh: Buddhism is the third-most followed religion, adhered to by merely 0.6% of the population.
bangladesh: Patriotic national festivals include the Language Movement Day, which is celebrated on 21 February in remembrance of the martyrs of the 1952 Bengali language movement.
bangladesh: The country is divided into three regions.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's total fertility rate (TFR), once among the highest in the world, has experienced a dramatic decline, from 5.5 in 1985 to 3.7 in 1995, down to 1.9 in 2022, which is below the sub-replacement fertility of 2.1.
bangladesh: There are various special interest groups, including non-governmental organisations, human rights organisations, professional associations, chambers of commerce, employers' associations, and trade unions.
bangladesh: Bangladesh increased electricity production capacity from 5 gigawatts in 2009 to 25.5 gigawatts in 2022.
bangladesh: The Bangladesh Navy, one of the largest in the Bay of Bengal, includes a fleet of frigates, submarines, corvettes, and other vessels.
bangladesh: The Bangladesh women's national football team won the SAFF Women's Championship consecutively in 2022 and 2024.
bangladesh: Following the decline of the Mughal Empire in the early 1700s, the region became a semi-independent state under the Nawabs of Bengal, founded by Murshid Quli Khan in 1717.
bangladesh: The Kantajew Temple and Dhakeshwari Temple are excellent examples of late medieval Hindu temple architecture.
bangladesh: Bangladesh Television (BTV) is the sole state-owned television network with nationwide coverage.
bangladesh: Bangladesh faces a severe health workforce crisis, as formally trained providers make up a small percentage of the total health workforce.
bangladesh: Shakrain is an annual celebration, observed by flying kites, occurring at the end of Poush, the ninth month of the Bengali calendar.
bangladesh: In the aftermath of the Partition of India in 1947, East Bengal became the eastern and most populous wing of the newly formed Dominion of Pakistan and was later renamed to East Pakistan.
bangladesh: The architecture of Bangladesh is intertwined with that of the Bengal region and the broader Indian subcontinent.
bangladesh: Babar Ali becomes the first Bangladeshi to climb Mount Makalu in May 2026.
bangladesh: Musicians such as Ayub Bachchu and James have also gained nationwide popularity.
bangladesh: It has emerged as the second-largest economy in South Asia, surpassing the nominal GDP per capita of neighboring India since 2018.
bangladesh: It joined the OIC in 1974, and is a founding member of the Developing-8.
bangladesh: Key Development Forecasts for Bangladesh from International Futures
bangladesh: On 25 July 1971, the team's captain, Zakaria Pintoo, became the first person to hoist the Bangladesh flag on foreign land before their match in neighbouring India.
bangladesh: Divisions are subdivided into districts (zila).
bangladesh: Most of it is less than 12 m (39 ft) above sea level, and it is estimated that about 10% of its land would be flooded if the sea level were to rise by 1 m (3.3 ft).
bangladesh: The earliest known usage of the term is the Nesari plate in 805 AD.
bangladesh: The government has designated several regions as Ecologically Critical Areas, including wetlands, forests, and rivers.
bangladesh: The world's largest international NGO BRAC is based in Bangladesh.
bangladesh: Bangladesh shares land borders with India to the north, west, and east, and Myanmar to the southeast.
bangladesh: It has one of the largest refugee populations in the world and continues to face challenges such as endemic corruption, human rights abuses, political instability, and adverse effects of climate change.
bangladesh: According to the British Economist Intelligence Unit, the country has a hybrid regime: the third of four rankings in its Democracy Index.
bangladesh: Private television networks include ATN Bangla, Channel I, NTV, RTV, Ekushey TV, Ekattor TV, Jamuna TV and Somoy TV.
bangladesh: Primary level students have to pass the Primary Education Completion (PEC) exam to proceed to junior secondary.
bangladesh: Rabindra Sangeet and Nazrul Sangeet retain their popularity.
bangladesh: A warm and humid monsoon season lasts from June to October and supplies most of the country's rainfall.
bangladesh: Among the various used spices, turmeric, fenugreek, nigella, coriander, anise, cardamom and chili powder are widely used; a famous spice mix is the panch phoron.
bangladesh: Chobi Mela, held biennially, is considered the largest photography festival in Asia.
bangladesh: In 1962, Dhaka became the seat of the National Assembly of Pakistan, a move seen as appeasing increased Bengali nationalism.
bangladesh: The country has widespread environmental issues; pollution of the Dhaleshwari River by the textile industry and shrimp cultivation in Chakaria Sundarbans have both been described by academics as ecocides.
bangladesh: The Adivasi population includes the Chakmas, Marmas, Santhals, Mros, Tanchangyas, Bawms, Tripuris, Khasis, Khumis, Kukis, Garos, and Bisnupriya Manipuris.
bangladesh: Central Bangladesh includes the plainland Sal forest running along with the districts of Gazipur, Tangail, and Mymensingh.
bangladesh: Bengali is described as a dialect continuum where there are various dialects spoken throughout the country.
bangladesh: The culmination of the war established Bangladesh as a sovereign nation following Pakistani surrender on 16 December 1971.
bangladesh: The Bangladeshi taka is the national currency.
bangladesh: The zamindar gentry built many palaces in the latter style, including the Ahsan Manzil, the Baliati Zamnidar Bari, the Tajhat Palace, the Rose Garden Palace, the Dighapatia Palace, the Puthia Rajbari, Natore Rajbari and the Mohera Zamindar Bari.
bangladesh: The 7 March Speech of Mujib led to a non-cooperation movement.
bangladesh: Hot milk tea is the most commonly consumed beverage in the country, being at the centre of group conversations.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has 64 districts, each subdivided into upazila (subdistricts) or thana.
bangladesh: The government only recognises the transgender and intersex community known as the Hijra.
bangladesh: The Chittagong Hill Tracts region experienced unrest and an insurgency from 1975 to 1997 in an autonomy movement by its indigenous people.
bangladesh: As of 2023, the large service sector accounts for about 51.5% of total GDP, followed by the industrial sector (34.6%), while the agriculture sector is by far the smallest, making up only 11% of total GDP; despite being the largest employment sector, providing roughly half of the total workforce.
bangladesh: Sufia Kamal was a major feminist writer.
bangladesh: On International Human Rights Day in December 2021, the United States Department of the Treasury announced sanctions on commanders of the Rapid Action Battalion for extrajudicial killings, torture, and other human rights abuses.
bangladesh: Borhani, mattha and lassi are popular traditionally consumed beverages.
bangladesh: Bangladesh continues to have huge untapped reserves of natural gas, particularly in its maritime territory.
bangladesh: Natural calamities, such as floods, tropical cyclones, tornadoes, and tidal bores occur almost every year, combined with the effects of deforestation, soil degradation and erosion.
bangladesh: Classical music in Bangladesh is represented by the common forms of devotional music across the Indian subcontinent; such as the Hindustani classical music genre dhrupad and khayal.
bangladesh: The most celebrated Hindu festival is Durga Puja.
bangladesh: Bangladesh, by constitution, is a unitary state and a de jure representative democracy with a Westminster-style parliamentary system that has universal suffrage.
bangladesh: The Indo-Aryan suffix Desh is derived from the Sanskrit word deśha, which means "land" or "country".
bangladesh: The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is the largest institutional healthcare provider in Bangladesh, and contains two divisions: Health Service Division and Medical Education And Family Welfare Division.
bangladesh: The word Bangāl became the most common name for the region during the Islamic period.
bangladesh: The United Front coalition led by A.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is located in the Indomalayan realm, and lies within four terrestrial ecoregions: Lower Gangetic Plains moist deciduous forests, Mizoram–Manipur–Kachin rain forests, Sundarbans freshwater swamp forests, and Sundarbans mangroves.
bangladesh: Bangladesh, a country experiencing daily blackouts several times a day in 2009, achieved 100% electrification by 2022.
bangladesh: Primary and secondary education is compulsory, and is financed by the state and free of charge in public schools.
bangladesh: Zahir Raihan made various influential films throughout the period, notably Kokhono Asheni in 1961, Shangam in 1964 (the first colour film in Pakistan), and Jibon Theke Neowa in 1970.
bangladesh: According to the same report, Bangladesh experiences around 125,000 international tourist arrivals per year.
bangladesh: Post-Independence, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman led the country until his assassination in 1975.
bangladesh: A lack of exploration and decreasing proven reserves have forced Bangladesh to import LNG from abroad.
bangladesh: Popular pop singers in the 21st century include Habib Wahid and Tahsan Rahman Khan.
bangladesh: By 1947, a total of 80 cinemas were listed.
bangladesh: Bangladesh receives 59% of its remittances from the Middle East, despite poor working conditions affecting over four million Bangladeshi workers.
bangladesh: Bangladesh was ranked 106th in the Global Innovation Index in 2024 and in 2025.
bangladesh: The Pakistani government practised extensive economic discrimination against East Pakistan, including the refusal for foreign aid allocation.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's large diaspora contributed roughly $27 billion in remittances in 2024.
bangladesh: Coconut milk, mustard paste, mustard seeds, mustard oil, ghee, achars and chutneys are also widely used in the cuisine.
bangladesh: The League claimed the right to form a government and develop a new constitution but was strongly opposed by the Pakistani military and the Pakistan Peoples Party led by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
bangladesh: In addition to traditional defence roles, the military has supported civil authorities in disaster relief and provided internal security during periods of political unrest.
bangladesh: The Mughal Empire conquered Bengal in 1576.
bangladesh: Bangladesh also produces the Rajshahi silk, a fine silk renowned for its softness and ability to create sophisticated designs.
bangladesh: The term Vangala Desa is found in 11th-century South Indian records.
bangladesh: The period experienced immense flight of capital which was used to finance the industrial revolution in Great Britain while Bengal was devastated by periods of deadly famines.
bangladesh: Severe acute malnutrition affects 450,000 children, while nearly 2 million children have moderate acute malnutrition.
bangladesh: The National Human Rights Commission of Bangladesh was set up in 2007.
bangladesh: The term Bangla can refer to both the Bengal region and the Bengali language.
bangladesh: The annual Ekushey Book Fair and Dhaka Lit Fest, organised by the Bangla Academy, are among the largest literary festivals in South Asia.
bangladesh: However, the constitution also upholds secularism and ensures equal rights for all religions.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has a literacy rate of 76% as of 2021: 79% for males and 71.9% for females.
bangladesh: Ivory, brass and pottery has deep roots in Bangladeshi culture.
bangladesh: Following independence, the national football team made its debut in 1973 and eventually achieved the feat of participating in the AFC Asian Cup (1980), becoming only the second South Asian team to do so.
bangladesh: The judiciary includes district and metropolitan courts divided into civil and criminal courts.
bangladesh: Fish is the main source of protein, owing to the country's riverine geography, and it is often eaten with its roe.
bangladesh: As of 2022, the overall life expectancy in Bangladesh at birth was 74 years (72 years for males and 76 years for females).
bangladesh: The film industry in Dhaka positioned itself as the base for a Bengali Muslim cinema from the 1960s and onwards.
bangladesh: In 2002, it was estimated that half of the drinking water was polluted with arsenic, exceeding levels of 10 micrograms per litre.
bangladesh: Its Human Development Index growth during the 21st century was surpassed only by China.
bangladesh: Shamsuddin Ilyas Shah proclaimed himself as the first "Shah of Bangala" in 1342.
bangladesh: The etymology of Bangladesh ("Bengali country") can be traced to the early 20th century, when Bengali patriotic songs, such as Aaji Bangladesher Hridoy by Rabindranath Tagore and Namo Namo Namo Bangladesh Momo by Kazi Nazrul Islam, used the term in 1905 and 1932 respectively.
bangladesh: Baxter, Craig (1997).
bangladesh: Ethnic, linguistic, and cultural discrimination was common in Pakistan's civil and military services, in which Bengalis were under-represented; leading to East Pakistan forging a distinct political identity.
bangladesh: Article 70 of the Constitution of Bangladesh forbids MPs from voting against their party.
bangladesh: The country under Sheikh Hasina's leadership saw economic progress but also witnessed democratic backsliding, increasing authoritarianism, endemic corruption, and widespread human rights abuses.
bangladesh: According to National Human Rights Commission, 70% of alleged human-rights violations are committed by law-enforcement agencies.
bangladesh: Jasimuddin was a renowned pastoral poet, popularly called Palli Kabi (folk poet).
bangladesh: Influential heavy metal include Artcell and Warfaze.
bangladesh: All medical colleges are affiliated with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
bangladesh: For many years, Bangladesh has been the world's largest contributor to UN peacekeeping forces.
bangladesh: OCLC 47885632.
bangladesh: Every citizen has the freedom to practice any religion.
bangladesh: The National Sports Council regulates 42 sporting federations.
bangladesh: It was classified by UNESCO as an Intangible cultural heritage in 2013.
bangladesh: Bangladesh, officially the People's Republic of Bangladesh, is a country in South Asia.
bangladesh: Indian television drama in particular has established a "cultural hegemony" over Bangladeshi satellite television.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is the second-leading garments exporter in the world, and plays a crucial role in the global fast fashion industry, exporting to various Western fashion brands.
bangladesh: Tribal languages, although increasingly endangered, include the Chakma language, another native Eastern Indo-Aryan language, spoken by the Chakma people.
bangladesh: Natural hazards that come from increased rainfall, rising sea levels, and tropical cyclones are expected to increase as the climate changes, each seriously affecting agriculture, water and food security, human health, and shelter.
bangladesh: Bangladesh joined the Commonwealth of Nations in 1972 and the United Nations in 1974.
bangladesh: Other important works include Krittibas Ojha's translation of the Ramayana, Kashiram Das' translation of the Mahabharata, and Maladhar Basu's translation of the Bhagavata.
bangladesh: The staple dish is white rice, which along with fish, forms the culinary base.
bangladesh: Shreekrishna Kirtana written by Chandidas marked a particular height of poetic achievement since the Charyapadas.
bangladesh: According to the 2023 Global Slavery Index, an estimated 1.2 million people were enslaved in Bangladesh as of 2021, which is among the highest in the world.
bangladesh: East Bengal was renamed East Pakistan in 1956 as part of the One Unit Scheme under the new constitution, and the province became a vital part of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization.
bangladesh: Pithas are traditional boiled desserts made with rice or fruits.
bangladesh: Michael Madhusudan Dutt invented the blank verse in Bengali literature.
bangladesh: The widely criticised Digital Security Act was repealed and replaced by the Cyber Security Act in 2023.
bangladesh: Following its decline, the kingdom of Samatata arose, which was a tributary state of the Gupta Empire (ca.
bangladesh: 0.1% of the population practices other religions such as Animism or is irreligious.
bangladesh: It includes narrative forms, song and dance forms, supra-personae forms, performances with scroll paintings, puppet theatre and processional forms.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is a unitary parliamentary republic based on the Westminster system.
bangladesh: However, government expenditure in education remains among the lowest in the world, at only 1.8% of the total GDP.
bangladesh: Mughal Bengal saw the spread of Mughal architecture in the region.
bangladesh: Following the democratisation in 1991, the Battle of the Begums between Khaleda Zia and Sheikh Hasina defined the country's politics for the next 34 years.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has one of the largest populations of Irrawaddy and Ganges dolphins.
bangladesh: The area within each police station, except for those in metropolitan areas, is divided into unions, with each union comprising multiple villages.
bangladesh: Anisul Hoque is a popular contemporary literary figure.
bangladesh: Other Muslim festivals include Mawlid (Eid-e-Milad Un Nabi), Ashura on the tenth day of Muharram, Chaand Raat, and Shab-e-Barat, Shab-e-Meraj, Shab-e-Qadr during Ramadan and Bishwa Ijtema.
bangladesh: The government can be divided into three pillars: the executive, the legislative and the judiciary.
bangladesh: Film societes have played a crucial role in the development of cinema in Bangladesh.
bangladesh: General Yahya Khan assumed power, reintroducing martial law.
bangladesh: Amidst rising cultural and societal differences, the brutal government crackdown on the 1952 Bengali language movement to establish Bengali as the official language of Pakistan spurred Bengali nationalism and pro-democracy movements.
bangladesh: Roughly 60% of the population had access to drinking water in 2022.
bangladesh: Bengali literature forms an important part of Bengali culture.
bangladesh: Akash ar Mati (Sky and Earth), released in 1959, was the second film as such.
bangladesh: The Battle of Plassey in 1757 marked the beginning of British colonial rule for the following two centuries.
bangladesh: It is divided into three protected sanctuaries: the South, East, and West zones.
bangladesh: It protects citizens' rights, ensures the law is applied fairly, and preserves the balance of power within the government.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has a median age of roughly 28 years, with 26% of the total population aged 14 or younger, and merely 6% aged 65 and above as of 2023.
bangladesh: Hence, the name Bangladesh means "Land of Bengal" or "Country of Bengal".
bangladesh: Harsha (606–47 AD) drew Samatata into its loosely administered political structure.
bangladesh: Bangladeshi cuisine, formed by the nation's geographic location, climate, and history—is rich and diverse.
bangladesh: The country's haor wetlands are of significance to global environmental science.
bangladesh: Varieties of leaf vegetables, potatoes, gourds and lentils (dal) also play an important role.
bangladesh: Significant deficiencies in the treatment practices of village doctors persist, with widespread harmful and inappropriate drug prescribing.
bangladesh: Rabindranath Tagore was the first Asian and non-European laureate of the Nobel Prize in Literature.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is a member state of SAARC and several other international organisations.
bangladesh: Shayan Chowdhury Arnob has been an influential figure in indie rock.
bangladesh: Bangladesh was ranked 84th out of the 127 countries listed in the 2024 Global Hunger Index.
bangladesh: An interim government was formed in August 2024, with Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus as the Chief Adviser.
bangladesh: Ziaur Rahman founded the Bangladesh Nationalist Party on September 1, 1978.
bangladesh: As of 2020, maternal mortality remains high, clocking at 123 per 100,000 live births.
bangladesh: Some women follow Islamic clothing.
bangladesh: Condiments and herbs used include red onions, green chillies, garlic, ginger, cilantro, and mint.
bangladesh: Bangladesh, by the constitution, guarantees healthcare services as a fundamental right to all of its citizens.
bangladesh: Altogether there are 506 urban centres in Bangladesh which 43 cities have a population of more than 100,000.
bangladesh: The private sector accounts for 80% of GDP compared to the dwindling role of state-owned companies.
bangladesh: It was overthrown by the Hindu Sena dynasty, which ruled the territory until the Muslim conquests led by Muhammad Bakhtiyar Khalji of the Ghurid dynasty in 1204.
bangladesh: Domestic private health expenditure was about 75.48% of the total healthcare expenditure.
bangladesh: Biogas is being used to produce organic fertiliser.
bangladesh: In the metropolitan areas, police stations are divided into wards, further divided into mahallas.
bangladesh: The country has 60 wildlife sanctuaries.
bangladesh: The forest is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
bangladesh: For children under the age of five, 52% are affected by anemia, 41% are stunted, 16% are wasted, and 36% are underweight.
bangladesh: The country has up to 6000 species of plant life, including 5000 flowering plants.
bangladesh: The southeastern Chittagong region covers evergreen and semi-evergreen hilly jungles.
bangladesh: It ratified the Rio Convention on Biological Diversity on 3 May 1994.
bangladesh: Native folk music features the baul mystical tradition, which was popularised by Lalon in the 18th century, and is listed by UNESCO as a Masterpiece of Intangible Cultural Heritage.
bangladesh: Over 84% of the export earnings come from the textile industry.
bangladesh: On 23 June 1757, the state led by Siraj-ud-Daulah was defeated by the British East India Company in the Battle of Plassey—which was key in establishing colonial British rule over Bengal and the wider Indian subcontinent.
bangladesh: Print media is the second-most widely consumed, and newspapers are privately owned and outspoken, including The Daily Star, Dhaka Tribune, The Financial Express, Bangladesh Pratidin, Kaler Kantho, Prothom Alo, The Daily Ittefaq and Jugantor.
bangladesh: Traditional festivals include Pahela Baishakh (Bengali New Year), which is the major festival of Bengali culture; with widespread festivities.
bangladesh: Bangladesh ranked 96th among 163 countries in the 2022 Global Peace Index.
bangladesh: Victory Day is celebrated on 16 December to celebrate the victory in the Bangladesh Liberation War.
bangladesh: Bangladesh joined the Convention against Torture in 1998 and enacted its first anti-torture law, the Torture and Custodial Death (Prevention) Act, in 2013.
bangladesh: Although many areas are protected under law, some Bangladeshi wildlife is threatened by this growth.
bangladesh: The under-construction Rooppur Nuclear Power Plant, under-construction with assistance from the Russian company Rosatom, will be the first operational nuclear power plant in the country.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is a key source market for medical tourism for various countries, mainly India, due to its citizens dissatisfaction and distrust over their own healthcare system.
bangladesh: Since the early 1990s, driven by free market policies and economic liberalisation measures, Bangladesh has achieved significant economic growth—emerging as one of the fastest-growing economies in the world, driven by its large textile industry, which is the second-largest in the world.
bangladesh: Since its independence, the Awami League (AL) and the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) have remained two of the most powerful political parties in Bangladesh.
bangladesh: The country has never recorded an air temperature below 0 °C (32 °F), with a record low of 1.1 °C (34.0 °F) in the northwest city of Dinajpur on 3 February 1905.
bangladesh: The Nawabs of Dhaka patronised the production of several silent films from the 1900s.
bangladesh: The Bangladesh national under-19 cricket team also won the U-19 Asia cup in 2023 and 2024 consecutively.
bangladesh: Chess is very popular in Bangladesh.
bangladesh: The constitution states that all children shall receive free and compulsory education.
bangladesh: Lewis, David (2011).
bangladesh: The annual Mangal Shobhajatra (Bengali New Year parade) organised by the Faculty of Fine Arts of the University of Dhaka on Pohela Boishakh was enlisted as an Intangible cultural heritage by UNESCO in 2016.
bangladesh: Political instability, high inflation, endemic corruption, insufficient power supplies, and slow implementation of reforms are major challenges to economic growth.
bangladesh: In 1966, Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman announced a six-point movement for a federal parliamentary democracy.
bangladesh: An electric car called the Palki is being developed for production in the country.
bangladesh: Gas shortages were further exacerbated by the Russo-Ukrainian war.
bangladesh: Land administration was the sector with the most bribery in 2015, followed by education, police and water supply.
bangladesh: Homosexuality is affected by Section 377 of the Penal Code of Bangladesh, originally enacted by the British colonial government.
bangladesh: The country has three UNESCO World Heritage Sites (the Mosque City, the Buddhist Vihara and the Sundarbans) and seven tentative-list sites.
bangladesh: Humayun Ahmed was the most popular author in post-Independence Bangladesh.
bangladesh: Bangladesh has a rich tradition of Indian classical music, which uses instruments like the sitar, tabla, sarod, and santoor.
bangladesh: Kebabs are widely popular, particularly seekh kebab, chapli kebab, shami kebab, chicken tikka and shashlik, along with various types of chaaps.
bangladesh: In the 2011 census, Hindus formed 8.54% of the population.
bangladesh: In Sylhet, the shatkora lemons are used to marinate dishes, a notable one is beef hatkora.
bangladesh: In 2002, Bangladesh and China signed a Defence Cooperation Agreement.
bangladesh: Dhaka hosts the headquarters of BIMSTEC, an organisation that brings together countries dependent on the Bay of Bengal.
bangladesh: Still, the usage of the latter remains highly reproached.
bangladesh: Amnesty International Prisoners of Conscience from Bangladesh have included Saber Hossain Chowdhury and Shahidul Alam.
bangladesh: The stranded Pakistanis and some sections of the Old Dhakaites often use Urdu as their native tongue.
bangladesh: Dhaka College, established in 1841, is among the oldest educational institutes in the Indian subcontinent.
bangladesh: Medical education is provided by 39 government, 6 armed force and 68 private medical colleges.
bangladesh: After the restoration of parliamentary democracy in 1991, power alternated between Khaleda Zia of the BNP and Sheikh Hasina of the Awami League, an era dubbed the Battle of Begums—which defined Bangladesh's politics and history for 34 years until 2024.
bangladesh: 80% of Bangladesh's installed gas-fired power generation capacity comes from turbines manufactured in the United States.
bangladesh: The United States has pursued negotiations with Bangladesh on a Status of forces agreement, an Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement and a General Security of Military Information Agreement.
bangladesh: The official and predominant language of Bangladesh is Bengali, which is spoken by more than 99% of the population as their native language.
bangladesh: The Bangladesh Plain is famous for its fertile alluvial soil which supports extensive cultivation.
bangladesh: The Bengal tiger, clouded leopard, saltwater crocodile, black panther and fishing cat are among the chief predators in the Sundarbans.
bangladesh: The Civil Service assists the ministers in implementing policy.
bangladesh: According to International IDEA's Global State of Democracy (GSoD) Indices and Democracy Tracker, Bangladesh performs in the low range on overall democratic measures, with particular weaknesses in political representation, including credible elections, inclusive suffrage and elected government.
bangladesh: 12% of the country is covered by hill systems.
bangladesh: It restarted buying spot price LNG once again in February 2023 as prices eased.
bangladesh: There were only 5.3 doctors per 10,000 people, and about six physicians and six nurses per 1,000 people, while the number of hospital beds is 9 per 1,000.
bangladesh: Azam Khan, nicknamed the "Pop Samrat" and the "Rock Guru", is a founding figure of Bangladeshi rock.
bangladesh: Other major forms include qawwali and kirtan.
bangladesh: The Somapura Mahavihara built under the rule of the Buddhist Pala Empire in the 8th century is an outstanding example of the pre-Islamic era.
bangladesh: The biggest festival of the Buddhists across the country is Buddha Purnima, which marks the birth of Gautama Buddha.
bangladesh: Television is the most popular form of media consumption.
bangladesh: The Jatra is the most popular form of Bengali folk theatre.
bangladesh: The parliament is presided over by the Speaker, who is second in line to the president.
bangladesh: Lungi is the most common informal clothing for men, while kurta (panjabi) and pajama are worn by men on festivals and holidays.
bangladesh: It is also a major producer of jute, rice, fish, tea, and flowers.
bangladesh: In classical antiquity, notable sculptural Hindu, Jain, and Buddhist art developed in the Pala Empire and the Sena dynasty.
bangladesh: Martin's Island is the only coral reef in the country.
bangladesh: The first Bengali-language film in East Pakistan, Mukh O Mukhosh (Face and Mask), was released in 1956.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's relationship with Pakistan is problematic, mainly because Pakistan denies the 1971 Bangladesh genocide.
bangladesh: Despite generating 70% of Pakistan's export revenue with jute and tea, East Pakistan received much less government spending.
bangladesh: Muhammad Zafar Iqbal is a pioneer science fiction writer.
bangladesh: Among Christians, Christmas, known as Boro Din, and Easter are the most widely celebrated .
bangladesh: Bangladesh: Politics, Economy and Civil Society.
bangladesh: While government-owned companies in Bangladesh generate nearly half of Bangladesh's electricity, privately owned companies like the Summit Group and Orion Group are playing an increasingly important role in both generating electricity, and supplying machinery, reactors, and equipment.
bangladesh: Among religious festivals, the two biggest festivals of the Muslim majority are Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of the month of Ramadan—and Eid al-Adha, which is the festival of sacrifice.
bangladesh: The Buddhist Pala Empire ruled the region from 750 to 1150 AD.
bangladesh: Bengali vernacular architecture is noted for pioneering the bungalow.
bangladesh: Jibanananda Das was the most recognised Bengali poet after Tagore and Nazrul.
bangladesh: Bangladeshi Buddhists are concentrated among the tribal ethnic groups in the Chittagong Hill Tracts and by the Bengali Buddhist minority across coastal Chittagong, who mostly follow the Theravada school.
bangladesh: Wasfia Nazreen is the first Bangladeshi climber to climb the Seven Summits and the K2.
bangladesh: The University of Chittagong, established in 1966, has the largest campus.
bangladesh: The Bangladesh Environment Conservation Act was enacted in 1995.
bangladesh: The recorded history of art in Bangladesh can be traced to the 3rd century BCE, when terracotta sculptures were made in the region.
bangladesh: In recent years, Bangladesh and India have increased joint military exercises, high-level visits of military leaders, counter-terrorism cooperation and intelligence sharing.
bangladesh: Bangladesh reached the quarter-final of the 2015 Cricket World Cup, the semi-final of the 2017 ICC Champions Trophy and they reached the final of the Asia Cup 3 times – in 2012, 2016, and 2018.
bangladesh: It maintains a warm relationship with China, its largest trading partner and largest arms supplier.
bangladesh: However, healthcare facilities in Bangladesh are considered less than adequate, although they have improved as the economy has grown and poverty levels have decreased significantly.
bangladesh: Bangladesh stopped buying spot price LNG temporarily in July 2022, despite constant load-shedding, due to a steep price hike in the global market.
bangladesh: Hindu and Buddhist architectural remnants have been found in Mahasthangarh, which dates back to the 3rd century BCE.
bangladesh: In Bangladesh forest cover is around 14% of the total land area, equivalent to 1,883,400 hectares (ha) of forest in 2020, down from 1,920,330 hectares (ha) in 1990.
bangladesh: Louis Kahn is a notable foreign architect who designed the National Parliament Building in Sher-e-Bangla Nagar.
bangladesh: Westview Press.
bangladesh: Other animals include the black giant squirrel, capped langur, Bengal fox, sambar deer, jungle cat, king cobra, wild boar, mongooses, pangolins, pythons and water monitors.
bangladesh: Mughal-influenced dishes include kormas, kalias, biryanis, pulaos, teharis and khichuris.
bangladesh: Popular street foods include chotpoti, jhal muri, shingara, samosa and fuchka.
bangladesh: Other festivals include Nabonno and Poush Parbon, which celebrate new harvests of crops.
bangladesh: Prominent news agencies in Bangladesh include Bangladesh Sangbad Sangstha (BSS) and Bdnews24.com.
bangladesh: Nandipada and Swastika symbols have been found on stone querns in the Wari-Bateshwar ruins, which indicate the presence of Hinduism in the area during the Iron Age—from 400 to 100 BCE.
bangladesh: Writers such as Bipradas Pipilai, Vijay Gupta, Shah Muhammad Sagir, Zainuddin and Abdul Hakim were important figures.
bangladesh: Water issues are politically complicated since Bangladesh is downstream of India.
bangladesh: Popular foreign media include BBC News (BBC Bangla), CNN, VOA and Al Jazeera.
bangladesh: China is the largest trading partner of Bangladesh, accounting for 15% of the total trade, followed by India; which accounts for 8% of the total trade.
bangladesh: As a result of various international and national level initiatives in disaster risk reduction, the human toll and economic damage from floods and cyclones have come down over the years.
bangladesh: Syed Mujtaba Ali is noted for his cosmopolitan views.
bangladesh: The human population is concentrated in urban areas, limiting deforestation to a certain extent.
bangladesh: The World Bank estimated that roughly 80,000–90,000 deaths occurred in Bangladesh due to the drastic effects of air pollution in 2019.
bangladesh: Shakib Al Hasan is widely regarded as one of the greatest all-rounders in the history of the sport.
bangladesh: The All Pakistan Awami Muslim League was formed in 1949.
bangladesh: Torture is banned by the Constitution of Bangladesh, but is rampantly used by Bangladesh's security forces.
bangladesh: Tareque Masud was honoured by FIPRESCI at the 2002 Cannes Film Festival for his film Matir Moina (The Clay Bird).
bangladesh: The first conviction under this law was announced in 2020.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is crippled with one of the worst air qualities in the world, mostly concentrated in the densely populated urban areas, especially the capital Dhaka and its metropolitan area.
bangladesh: Photography as a form of art has seen rapid growth in the 21st century.
bangladesh: The term gained official status during the Sultanate of Bengal in the 14th century.
bangladesh: It plays an important role in the geopolitical affairs of the Indo-Pacific, due to its strategic location between South and Southeast Asia.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's international tourism receipts in 2019 amounted to $391 million.
bangladesh: APH Publishing.
bangladesh: Dhaka, the capital and largest city, is the nation's political, financial, and cultural centre.
bangladesh: The Bangladesh Armed Forces have inherited the institutional framework of the British military and the British Indian Army.
bangladesh: The 1980s were dominated by the dictatorship of Hussain Muhammad Ershad, who was overthrown in a mass uprising in 1990.
bangladesh: Bangladesh is vital to ensuring stability and security in northeast India.
bangladesh: The populist leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was arrested for treason in the Agartala Conspiracy Case and was released during the 1969 uprising in East Pakistan which resulted in Ayub Khan's resignation.
bangladesh: Indo-Islamic architecture can be seen from the 13th century, especially in the unique mosque architecture of the Bengal Sultanate, an example being the Sixty Dome Mosque among others in the Mosque City of Bagerhat—which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
bangladesh: Authorities banned Bengali literature and music in the state media.
bangladesh: Shahidul Zahir was widely acclaimed for his usage of magical realism.
bangladesh: Music of Bangladesh can be classed into classical, light-classical, devotional, and popular.
bangladesh: Picture House, the first permanent cinema in Dhaka, began its operation during the year between 1913 and 1914.
bangladesh: Bangladesh's poor healthcare system suffers from severe underfunding from the government.
bangladesh: Sixteenth century historian Abu'l-Fazl ibn Mubarak mentions in his Ain-i-Akbari that the addition of the suffix "al" came from the fact that the ancient rajahs of the land raised mounds of earth in lowlands at the foot of the hills which were called "al".
bangladesh: Prominent directors include Khan Ataur Rahman, Alamgir Kabir, Amjad Hossain, Humayun Ahmed, Morshedul Islam, Tanvir Mokammel, Tareque Masud, Salahuddin Lavlu and Enamul Karim Nirjhar.
bangladesh: Since the colonial period, Bangladesh has had a prominent civil society.
bangladesh: Cambridge University Press.
bangladesh: Due to a shortage of judges, the judiciary has a large backlog.
bangladesh: Radio Foorti, Radio Today, Radio Aamar and ABC Radio were popular privately owned radio stations; popularity of radio has declined significantly.
bangladesh: Among the Austroasiatic languages, the most spoken is the Santali language, native to the Santal people.
bangladesh: As of 2014, the country was set to revise its National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan.
bangladesh: The judiciary has the power to assess a law's constitutionality and offer legal remedies.
bangladesh: The tourism industry is expanding, contributing some 3.02% of total GDP.
bangladesh: Islam is the state religion of Bangladesh.
bangladesh: The history of press in Bangladesh dates back to 1860, when the first printing press was established in Dhaka.
bangladesh: Most of the country is dominated by the fertile Ganges Delta, the largest river delta in the world.
bangladesh: Bangladesh Betar is the lone state-run radio service.
bangladesh: Its foreign exchange reserves, although depleting, remain the second-highest in South Asia, after India.
bangladesh: The Ganges delta is formed by the confluence of the Ganges (local name Padma or Pôdda), Brahmaputra (Jamuna or Jomuna), and Meghna rivers and their tributaries.
bangladesh: It was declared as International Mother Language Day by UNESCO in 1999.
bangladesh: Farrukh Ahmad is considered the poet of the "Islamic Renaissance".
bangladesh: The repeal was welcomed by the International Press Institute.
