bitcoin: In 2014, economist Robert J.
bitcoin: For instance, in 2013, a user lost ₿7,500, valued at US$7.5 million, by accidentally discarding a hard drive with the private key.
bitcoin: As bitcoin is pseudonymous, its use by criminals has attracted the attention of regulators, leading to its ban by several countries.
bitcoin: Each block must contain a proof of work (PoW) to be accepted, involving finding a nonce number that, combined with the block content, produces a hash numerically smaller than the network's difficulty target.
bitcoin: Sociologist Nigel Dodd argues that the essence of the bitcoin ideology is to remove money from social, as well as governmental, control.
bitcoin: states, such as Texas and New Hampshire also instituted strategic bitcoin reserves, and the Czech National Bank bought less than €1 million in a "test portfolio".
bitcoin: Per some researchers, as of 2015, bitcoin functions more as a payment system than as a currency.
bitcoin: In 2015, The Economist noted that bitcoins had three qualities useful in a currency: they are "hard to earn, limited in supply and easy to verify".
bitcoin: The same month, BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager, recommended investors to allocate up to 2% of their portfolio to bitcoin.
bitcoin: The first proposals for distributed digital scarcity-based cryptocurrencies came from cypherpunks Wei Dai (b-money) and Nick Szabo (bit gold) in 1998.
bitcoin: Bitcoin works through the collaboration of computers, each of which acts as a node in the peer-to-peer bitcoin network.
bitcoin: As more blocks are added, modifying older blocks becomes increasingly challenging.
bitcoin: Embedded in this block was the text "The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks", which is the date and headline of an issue of The Times newspaper.
bitcoin: Mining consumes large quantities of electricity, with surveyed miners reporting that 52% of their electricity use came from sustainable energy sources, and has been criticized for its environmental impact.
bitcoin: Publishing such a bitcoin address does not risk its private key, and it is extremely unlikely to accidentally generate a used key with funds.
bitcoin: These philosophical ideas initially attracted libertarians and anarchists.
bitcoin: As of December 2017, approximately ₿980,000 had been stolen from cryptocurrency exchanges.
bitcoin: Bitcoin exchanges might also need to collect personal data as per legal requirements.
bitcoin: Some constituent states and local governments also accept tax payments in bitcoin, including Colorado in the US and Zug and Lugano in Switzerland.
bitcoin: Bitcoin is used as a store of value: individuals and companies such as the Winklevoss twins and Elon Musk's companies SpaceX and Tesla have each bought and sold hundreds of millions of dollars worth of bitcoin.
bitcoin: In August 2017, the SegWit software upgrade was activated.
bitcoin: The environmental impact of bitcoin mining is controversial and has attracted the attention of regulators, leading to restrictions or incentives in various jurisdictions.
bitcoin: Research shows a trend towards centralization in bitcoin as miners join pools for stable income.
bitcoin: In 2025, the nominee for the Chair of the Federal Reserve, Kevin Warsh, described Bitcoin as the "new gold."
According to research published in the International Review of Financial Analysis in 2018, bitcoin as an asset is highly volatile and does not behave like any other conventional asset.
bitcoin: Cold storage protects bitcoins from such hacks by keeping private keys offline, either through specialized hardware wallets or paper printouts.
bitcoin: Code repository on Github
bitcoin: In January 2024, the first 11 US spot bitcoin ETFs began trading, offering direct exposure to bitcoin for the first time on American stock exchanges.
bitcoin: Units for smaller amounts of bitcoin are the millibitcoin (mBTC), equal to 1⁄1000 bitcoin, and the satoshi (sat), representing 1⁄100000000 (one hundred millionth) bitcoin, the smallest amount possible.
bitcoin: The FBI seized about ₿30,000 in October 2013 from Silk Road, following the arrest of its founder Ross Ulbricht.
bitcoin: Bitcoin wallets were the first cryptocurrency wallets, enabling users to store the information necessary to transact bitcoins.
bitcoin: Bitcoin wealth is highly concentrated, with 0.01% holding 27% of in-circulation currency, as of 2021.
bitcoin: This allows sending bitcoins to several recipients in a single transaction.
bitcoin: For example, in 2012, Mt.
bitcoin: In 2020, some major companies and institutions started to acquire bitcoin: MicroStrategy invested $250 million in bitcoin as a treasury reserve asset, Square, Inc., $50 million, and MassMutual, $100 million.
bitcoin: From 2021 to 2025, El Salvador adopted it as legal tender currency before revoking it.
bitcoin: The daily transaction volume of bitcoin across all exchanges typically reaches $50 billion as of 2025.
bitcoin: Individual blocks, public addresses, and transactions within blocks are public information, and can be examined using a blockchain explorer.
bitcoin: SegWit opponents, who supported larger blocks as a scalability solution, forked to create Bitcoin Cash, one of many forks of bitcoin.
bitcoin: While wallets and software treat all bitcoins the same, each bitcoin's transaction history is recorded on the blockchain.
bitcoin: The mining process in bitcoin involves maintaining the blockchain through computer processing power.
bitcoin: To claim this reward, a special transaction called a coinbase is included in the block, with the miner as the payee.
bitcoin: After the announcement, the value of bitcoin dropped, and Baidu no longer accepted bitcoins for certain services.
bitcoin: Nine days later, Hal Finney received the first bitcoin transaction: ten bitcoins from Nakamoto.
bitcoin: Later that year, some U.S.
bitcoin: It is most commonly represented with the symbol ₿ designed in 2010 and the currency code BTC.
bitcoin: To tamper or censor the ledger, one needs to control the majority of the global hashrate.
bitcoin: Because of its decentralized nature and its global presence, regulating bitcoin is difficult.
bitcoin: Transactions are validated through the use of cryptography, preventing one person from spending another person's bitcoin, as long as the owner of the bitcoin keeps certain sensitive data secret.
bitcoin: However, users and applications can choose to differentiate between bitcoins.
bitcoin: Nakamoto's innovation was their complex interplay which resulted in the first decentralized, Sybil resistant, Byzantine fault tolerant digital cash system, that would eventually be referred to as the first blockchain.
bitcoin: However, the BTC code does not conform to ISO 4217 as BT is the country code of Bhutan, and ISO 4217 requires the first letter used in global commodities to be 'X'.
bitcoin: In November 2020, PayPal added support for bitcoin in the US.
bitcoin: The blockchain is maintained by a peer-to-peer network.
bitcoin: Legal scholar Eric Posner disagrees, however, as "a real Ponzi scheme takes fraud; bitcoin, by contrast, seems more like a collective delusion".
bitcoin: In May 2013, US authorities seized the unregistered exchange Mt.
bitcoin: As of 2018, the overwhelming majority of bitcoin transactions took place on cryptocurrency exchanges.
bitcoin: In the bitcoin network, each bitcoin is treated equally, ensuring basic fungibility.
bitcoin: As of 2025, the Salvadoran government continues to describe Bitcoin as legal tender under the 2021 Bitcoin Law; however, a January 2025 reform removed obligations for businesses and the government to accept it, so many analysts regard its legal-tender status as effectively ended in practice.
bitcoin: In February 2018, the price crashed after China imposed a complete ban on bitcoin trading.
bitcoin: In May and June 2022, the bitcoin price fell following the collapses of TerraUSD, a stablecoin, and the Celsius Network, a cryptocurrency loan company.
bitcoin: In March 2025, President Trump signed an executive order to establish a strategic bitcoin reserve.
bitcoin: Each block contains a SHA-256 hash of the previous block, chaining them in chronological order.
bitcoin: Commonly cited reasons for not using bitcoin include high costs, the inability to process chargebacks, high price volatility, long transaction times, and transaction fees (especially for small purchases).
bitcoin: In 2017, François Velde, senior economist at the Chicago Fed, described bitcoin as "unlikely by itself to replace monies in well-functioning monetary systems."
The legal status of bitcoin varies substantially from one jurisdiction to another.
bitcoin: Unlike a traditional ledger that tracks physical currency, bitcoins exist digitally as unspent outputs of transactions.
bitcoin: The volume of bitcoin trading can fluctuate considerably among various exchanges and geographic regions.
bitcoin: Wei Dai and Nick Szabo were also early supporters.
bitcoin: On May 22, 2010, the first known commercial transaction using bitcoin occurred when programmer Laszlo Hanyecz bought two Papa John's pizzas for ₿10,000, in what would later be celebrated as "Bitcoin Pizza Day".
bitcoin: Using multiple inputs is similar to using multiple coins in a cash transaction.
bitcoin: The blockchain is implemented as an ordered list of blocks.
bitcoin: For enhanced privacy, users can generate a new address for each transaction.
bitcoin: While the owners of these addresses are not directly identified, all transactions are public on the blockchain.
bitcoin: Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 March 2014.
bitcoin: On 31 October 2008, a link to a white paper authored by Satoshi Nakamoto titled Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System was posted to a cryptography mailing list.
bitcoin: In 2025, Kenneth Rogoff claimed that Krugman was wrong and that Bitcoin had value as it is competing with the dollar to become the means of exchange of the underground economy which represents 20% of the world's GDP.
bitcoin: This marked the first time a government agency had seized bitcoins.
bitcoin: Based on a free-market ideology, bitcoin was invented in 2008 when an unknown person published a white paper under the pseudonym of Satoshi Nakamoto.
bitcoin: Segwit was intended to support the Lightning Network as well as improve scalability.
bitcoin: As of 2015, there was little sign of bitcoin use in international remittances despite high fees charged by banks and Western Union.
bitcoin: Gox froze accounts containing bitcoins identified as stolen.
bitcoin: This is the main justification behind bitcoin bans.
bitcoin: To use bitcoins, owners need their private key to digitally sign transactions, which are verified by the network using the public key, keeping the private key secret.
bitcoin: The term hodl was created in December 2013 for holding bitcoin rather than selling it during periods of volatility.
bitcoin: Proponents highlighted bitcoin's use as a tool for fundraising in situations where access to conventional financial systems may be restricted.
bitcoin: The use of bitcoin by criminals has attracted the attention of financial regulators, legislative bodies, and law enforcement.
bitcoin: Creating such an address involves generating a random private key and then computing the corresponding address.
bitcoin: In October 2025, the US was the largest mining country with 38% of the global bitcoin mining market share, followed by Russia (16%) and China (14%, despite all cryptocurrency trading and mining being banned there in 2021).
bitcoin: According to Rogoff, bitcoin is "the ideal currency for a more fragmented and uncertain global landscape" and it could become appealing to emerging-market central banks as a "politically neutral" reserve currency.
bitcoin: Buying real-world goods with any virtual currency had been illegal in China since at least 2009.
bitcoin: Prices are not usually quoted in bitcoin and trades involve conversions into fiat currencies.
bitcoin: In 2024, Jean Tirole, also Nobel laureate, described bitcoin as a "pure bubble" as its intrinsic value is zero.
bitcoin: The private key must also be kept secret as its exposure, such as through a data breach, can lead to theft of the associated bitcoins.
bitcoin: A few entities also dominate other parts of the ecosystem such as the client software, online wallets, and simplified payment verification (SPV) clients.
bitcoin: Afterward, miners will only earn from transaction fees.
bitcoin: The Economist describes bitcoin as "a techno-anarchist project to create an online version of cash, a way for people to transact without the possibility of interference from malicious governments or banks".
bitcoin: In December 2013, the People's Bank of China prohibited Chinese financial institutions from using bitcoin.
bitcoin: In 2004, Hal Finney developed the first currency based on reusable proof of work.
bitcoin: Nodes validate and broadcast transactions.
bitcoin: In 2025, El Salvador's government revoked bitcoin's status as legal tender currency in order to comply with conditions set by the IMF for a loan.
bitcoin: "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System" (PDF).
bitcoin: In October 2021, the first bitcoin futures exchange-traded fund (ETF), called BITO, from ProShares was approved by the SEC and listed on the CME.
bitcoin: In 2014, mining pool Ghash.io reached 51% mining power, causing safety concerns, but later voluntarily capped its power at 39.99% for the benefit of the whole network.
bitcoin: As a decentralized system, bitcoin operates without a central authority or single administrator, so that anyone can create a new bitcoin address and transact without needing any approval.
bitcoin: The first wallet program, simply named Bitcoin, and sometimes referred to as the Satoshi client, was released in 2009 by Nakamoto as open-source software.
bitcoin: Most often, an address encodes a hash of a single public key.
bitcoin: It is estimated that around 20% of all bitcoins are lost.
bitcoin: All bitcoins in existence have been created through this type of transaction.
bitcoin: Nakamoto limited the block size to one megabyte.
bitcoin: He describes its price growth as an "epidemic", driven by contagious narratives.
bitcoin: This PoW is simple to verify but hard to generate, requiring many attempts.
bitcoin: Bitcoin Core is among the best known clients.
bitcoin: In 2023, ordinals—non-fungible tokens (NFTs)—on bitcoin, went live.
bitcoin: Satoshi tasked Finnish developer and early Bitcoin contributor Martti Malmi with creating content for the bitcoin.org website.
bitcoin: Use of bitcoin as a currency began in 2009, with the release of its open-source implementation.
bitcoin: Before, bitcoin only used a custom elliptic curve with the ECDSA algorithm to produce signatures.
bitcoin: Miners group and broadcast new transactions into blocks, which are then verified by the network.
bitcoin: The proof of work system and the chaining of blocks make blockchain modifications very difficult, as altering one block requires changing all subsequent blocks.
bitcoin: The adoption had been criticized internationally and within El Salvador.
bitcoin: The idea that solutions to computational puzzles could have some value was first proposed by cryptographers Cynthia Dwork and Moni Naor in 1992.
bitcoin: PoW forms the basis of bitcoin's consensus mechanism.
bitcoin: Each node maintains an independent copy of a public distributed ledger of transactions, called a blockchain, without central oversight.
bitcoin: To prevent double-spending, each input must refer to a previous unspent output in the blockchain.
bitcoin: In case of disagreement, nodes trust the longest chain, which required the greatest amount of effort to produce.
bitcoin: The concept was independently rediscovered by Adam Back who developed Hashcash, a proof-of-work scheme for spam control in 1997.
bitcoin: However, a 2018 assessment by The Economist stated that cryptocurrencies met none of these three criteria.
bitcoin: However, the use of bitcoin can be criminalized, and shutting down exchanges and the peer-to-peer economy in a given country would constitute a de facto ban.
bitcoin: Since 2014, regulated bitcoin funds also allow exposure to the asset or to futures as an investment.
bitcoin: As of 2023, the US government owned more than $5 billion worth of seized bitcoin.
bitcoin: During the same year, bitcoin prices were negatively affected by several hacks or thefts from cryptocurrency exchanges.
bitcoin: As of June 2023, River Financial estimated that bitcoin had 81.7 million users, about 1% of the global population.
bitcoin: The unit of account of the bitcoin system is the bitcoin.
bitcoin: Consensus between nodes about the content of the blockchain is achieved using a computationally intensive process based on proof of work, called mining, which is performed by purpose-built computers.
bitcoin: Nakamoto released bitcoin as open-source software.
bitcoin: In such a case, an additional output can return the change back to the payer.
bitcoin: The Lightning Network, a second-layer routing network, is a potential scaling solution.
bitcoin: In early 2022, during the Canadian trucker protests opposing COVID-19 vaccine mandates, organizers turned to bitcoin to receive donations after traditional financial platforms restricted access to funding.
bitcoin: Forks of Bitcoin Core exist such as Bitcoin Unlimited.
bitcoin: This public record allows for chain analysis, where users can identify and potentially reject bitcoins from controversial sources.
bitcoin: From September 2021 until January 2025, the Bitcoin Law made bitcoin a legal tender currency in El Salvador, alongside the US dollar.
bitcoin: These fees are determined by the transaction's size and the amount of data stored, measured in satoshis per byte.
bitcoin: This process tracks bitcoin spending, ensuring each bitcoin is spent only once.
bitcoin: No uniform capitalization convention exists; some sources use Bitcoin, capitalized, to refer to the technology and network, and bitcoin, lowercase, for the unit of account.
bitcoin: The same year, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell described bitcoin as a digital competitor to gold but not to the dollar as he argued it is a highly volatile speculative asset not used as a form of payment.
bitcoin: During its 30 months of existence, beginning in February 2011, Silk Road exclusively accepted bitcoins as payment, transacting ₿9.9 million, worth about $214 million.
bitcoin: Nakamoto's identity remains unknown.
bitcoin: The Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary and the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary use the capitalized and lowercase variants without distinction.
bitcoin: About half of the electricity used is generated through fossil fuels.
bitcoin: Each node maintains a copy of the blockchain for ownership verification.
bitcoin: This process is almost instant, but the reverse (finding the private key for a given address) is nearly impossible.
bitcoin: In December 2024, bitcoin price reached $100,000 for the first time, as US president-elect Donald Trump promised to make the US the "crypto capital of the planet" and to stockpile bitcoin.
bitcoin: XBT, a code that conforms to ISO 4217 though not officially part of it, is used by Bloomberg L.P.
bitcoin: If a single miner or pool controls more than 50% of the hashing power, it would allow them to censor transactions and double-spend coins.
bitcoin: In 2022, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) urged El Salvador to reverse its decision.
bitcoin: In September 2021, bitcoin became legal tender currency in El Salvador, alongside the US dollar.
bitcoin: Nobel-prize winning economist Joseph Stiglitz says that bitcoin's anonymity encourages money laundering and other crimes.
bitcoin: As in a cash transaction, the sum of inputs can exceed the intended sum of payments.
bitcoin: These various attempts were not successful: Chaum's concept required centralized control and no banks wanted to sign on, Hashcash had no protection against double-spending, while b-money and bit gold were not resistant to Sybil attacks.
bitcoin: Losing a private key means losing access to the bitcoins, with no other proof of ownership accepted by the protocol.
bitcoin: Miners don't directly act as nodes, but do communicate with nodes.
bitcoin: The process requires significant computational power and specialized hardware.
bitcoin: Bitcoin is also used by some governments.
bitcoin: In 2014, economist Nouriel Roubini described bitcoin as a Ponzi scheme.
bitcoin: Miners who successfully create a new block with a valid nonce can collect transaction fees from the included transactions and a fixed reward in bitcoins.
bitcoin: The difficulty of generating a block is deterministically adjusted based on the mining power on the network by changing the difficulty target, which is recalibrated every 2,016 blocks (approximately two weeks) to maintain an average time of ten minutes between new blocks.
bitcoin: One bitcoin is divisible to eight decimal places.
bitcoin: bitcoin.org.
bitcoin: Wallets can be full clients, with a full copy of the blockchain to check the validity of mined blocks, or lightweight clients, just to send and receive transactions without a local copy of the entire blockchain.
bitcoin: An address may encode the hash of a bitcoin script that specifies more complex requirements to spend the funds.
bitcoin: Bloomberg reported that bitcoin was being used for large-item purchases on the site Overstock.com and for cross-border payments to freelancers.
bitcoin: doesn't really solve any sensible economic problem".
bitcoin: Moreover, mining hardware's short lifespan results in electronic waste.
bitcoin: 100,000 satoshis are one mBTC.
bitcoin: Shiller wrote that bitcoin has potential as a unit of account for measuring the relative value of goods, as with Chile's Unidad de Fomento, but that "Bitcoin in its present form...
bitcoin: This is accomplished through a specialized distributed ledger called a blockchain that records bitcoin transactions.
bitcoin: The high cost required to reach this level of computational power secures the bitcoin blockchain.
bitcoin: In April 2022, the Central African Republic (CAR) adopted bitcoin as legal tender alongside the CFA franc, but repealed the reform one year later.
bitcoin: On 3 January 2009, the bitcoin network was created when Nakamoto mined the starting block of the chain, known as the genesis block.
bitcoin: Since 2020, Iran has required local bitcoin miners to sell bitcoin to the Central Bank of Iran, allowing the central bank to use it for imports.
bitcoin: As of March 2025, El Salvador had $550 million worth of bitcoin in its international reserves, about 6,102 coins.
bitcoin: Andresen later became lead developer at the Bitcoin Foundation, an organization founded in September 2012 to promote bitcoin.
bitcoin: According to him, some bubbles are long-lasting such as gold and fiat currencies, and it is impossible to predict whether bitcoin would implode like other financial bubbles or become an alternative to gold.
bitcoin: When sending bitcoins, a user specifies the recipients' addresses and the amount for each output.
bitcoin: Public data can sometimes be matched with known address owners.
bitcoin: Retrieved 28 April 2014.
bitcoin: A 2014 World Bank report also concluded that bitcoin was not a deliberate Ponzi scheme.
bitcoin: As of 2025, a non-peer-reviewed study by the Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance (CCAF) estimated that bitcoin mining represented 0.5% of global electricity consumption and 0.08% of world greenhouse gas emissions, comparable to Slovakia's emissions.
bitcoin: The percentage of bitcoin trading in the Chinese renminbi fell from over 90% in September 2017 to less than 1% in June 2018.
bitcoin: In June 2013, the US Drug Enforcement Administration seized ₿11.02 from an individual attempting to use them to purchase illicit drugs.
bitcoin: Patterns of use, like spending coins from multiple inputs, can hint at a common owner.
bitcoin: Third-party internet services, called online wallets or hot wallets, store users' credentials on their servers, making them susceptible of hacks.
bitcoin: Money serves three purposes: a store of value, a medium of exchange, and a unit of account.
bitcoin: Nakamoto's paper was not peer-reviewed and was initially ignored by academics, who argued that it could not work.
bitcoin: One common example is "multisig", in which multiple distinct private keys must mutually sign any transaction that attempts to spend the funds.
bitcoin: As of November 2021, nine countries applied an absolute ban (Algeria, Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Iraq, Morocco, Nepal, Qatar, and Tunisia) while another 42 countries had an implicit ban.
bitcoin: In February 2021, bitcoin's market capitalization reached $1 trillion for the first time.
bitcoin: The domain name bitcoin.org was registered on 18 August 2008.
bitcoin: Bitcoin, along with other cryptocurrencies, has been described as an economic bubble by several economists, including Nobel Prize in Economics laureates, such as Joseph Stiglitz, James Heckman, and Paul Krugman.
bitcoin: In the blockchain, bitcoins are linked to specific strings called addresses.
bitcoin: Bitcoin (abbreviation: BTC; sign: ₿) is the first decentralized cryptocurrency.
bitcoin: For instance, the Iranian government initially opposed cryptocurrencies, but later began using them to circumvent sanctions.
bitcoin: According to computer scientist Arvind Narayanan, all individual components of bitcoin originated in earlier academic literature.
bitcoin: This reward is halved every 210,000 blocks until ₿21 million have been issued in total, which is expected to occur around the year 2140.
bitcoin: According to The Economist in 2014, bitcoin functions best as a medium of exchange.
bitcoin: According to one 2022 analysis published in The Journal of Alternative Investments, bitcoin was less volatile than oil, silver, US Treasuries, and 190 stocks in the S&P 500 during and after the 2020 stock market crash.
bitcoin: Bitcoin prices show much higher volatility and respond strongly to both regulatory changes and market events.
bitcoin: In December 2017, the first futures on bitcoin was introduced by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME).
bitcoin: Bitcoin transactions use a Forth-like scripting language, involving one or more inputs and outputs.
bitcoin: Unallocated input satoshis in the transaction become the transaction fee.
bitcoin: The limited block size and frequency can lead to delayed processing of transactions, increased fees and a bitcoin scalability problem.
bitcoin: As of 2022, the use of Bitcoin in El Salvador remained low: 80% of businesses refused to accept it.
bitcoin: Another recipient of the prize, Robert Shiller, argues that bitcoin is rather a fad that may become an asset class.
bitcoin: After early "proof-of-concept" transactions, the first major users of bitcoin were black markets, such as the dark web Silk Road.
bitcoin: In November 2021, the Taproot soft-fork upgrade was activated, adding support for Schnorr signatures, improved functionality of smart contracts and Lightning Network.
bitcoin: El Salvador still describes bitcoin as "legal tender", but its acceptance is no longer obligitory (as it is with the US dollar) and the El Salvador government no longer accepts bitcoin for payment of taxes or fees.
bitcoin: According to Harvard Professor Kenneth Rogoff as of 2025, bitcoin is rarely used in regular transactions with merchants, but is popular in the informal economy and for criminal activities.
bitcoin: A new block is created every 10 minutes on average, updating the blockchain across all nodes without central oversight.
