black_death: The first North American plague epidemic was the San Francisco plague of 1900–1904, followed by another outbreak in 1907–1908.
black_death: Nicephorus Gregoras, while writing to Demetrios Kydones, described the rising death toll, the futility of medicine, and the panic of the citizens.
black_death: Italian chronicler Agnolo di Tura recorded his experience from Siena, where plague arrived in May 1348:
black_death: As a result of the drastic reduction in the populace the value of the working class increased, and commoners came to enjoy more freedom.
black_death: Sometimes the outbreaks affected small areas, while other outbreaks affected multiple regions.
black_death: Because 14th-century healers and governments were at a loss to explain or stop the disease, Europeans turned to astrological forces, earthquakes and the poisoning of wells by Jews as possible reasons for outbreaks.
black_death: Estimates of plague victims are usually extrapolated from figures for the clergy.
black_death: Pneumonic plague has a mortality rate of 90–95%.
black_death: The Chagatai Khanate was the geographic heart of the Silk Road.
black_death: A report by the Medical Faculty of Paris stated that a conjunction of planets had caused "a great pestilence in the air" (miasma theory).
black_death: In English prior to the 18th century, the event was called the "pestilence" or "great pestilence", "the plague" or the "great death".
black_death: The article reported DNA data to provide genetic evidence from the teeth of seven individuals from the two cemeteries at Kara-Djigach and Burana finding evidence of Yersinia pestis.
black_death: This internal fragmentation, combined with the loss of tax revenue from the depopulated Silk Road trade routes, weakened Mongol authority over its Russian vassals, eventually facilitating the rise of the Grand Duchy of Moscow.
black_death: Among many other culprits of plague contagiousness, pre-existing malnutrition weakened the immune response, contributing to an immense decline in European population.
black_death: Instead of turning men to God the scourge turned them to despair ...
black_death: Monks, nuns, and priests were especially hard-hit since they cared for people ill with the plague.
black_death: pestis bacteria in burial sites across northern Europe through examination of bones and dental pulp, no other epidemic pathogen has been discovered to bolster the alternative explanations.
black_death: The Oriental rat flea has poor survival in cooler climates and reevaluation suggests the human flea was the principal vector of plague epidemics in Northern Europe.
black_death: In men and women alike it first betrayed itself by the emergence of certain tumours in the groin or armpits, some of which grew as large as a common apple, others as an egg ...
black_death: Freckle-like spots and rashes, which may have been caused by flea-bites, were identified as another potential sign of plague.
black_death: identified the Yersinia pestis strain in the cemetery sites of Kara-Djigach and Tolyak in 1338–1339, which were located within the borders of the Chagatai Khanate.
black_death: 'Great Death'.
black_death: pestis was uniformly prevalent, or nearly so, across Europe and that the pandemic had a devastating demographic impact everywhere."
The Black Death killed, by various estimations, from 25 to 60% of Europe's population.
black_death: In 2011 these results were further confirmed with genetic evidence derived from Black Death victims in the East Smithfield burial site in England.
black_death: There was a depopulation of the ruling elite, decimating the Mongol administrative class in the Ilkhanate (Persia) and the Golden Horde (Russia), leading to political instability and the eventual overthrow of Mongol rulers.
black_death: 1342–1357) suffered heavy casualties from the disease while besieging the Genoese port.
black_death: From Crimea, it was most likely carried by fleas living on the black rats that travelled on Genoese ships, spreading through the Mediterranean Basin and reaching North Africa, West Asia, and the rest of Europe via Constantinople, Sicily, and the Italian Peninsula.
black_death: It was the beginning of the second plague pandemic.
black_death: Nestorian gravesites dating from 1338 to 1339 near Issyk-Kul have inscriptions referring to plague, which has led some historians and epidemiologists to think they mark the outbreak of the epidemic; this is supported by recent direct findings of Y.
black_death: However, other sources suggest that the second pandemic did indeed reach sub-Saharan Africa.
black_death: According to Achtman, the dating of the plague suggests that it was not carried along the Silk Road, and its widespread appearance in that region probably postdates the European outbreak.
black_death: There were further outbreaks throughout the Late Middle Ages and, also due to other contributing factors (the crisis of the late Middle Ages), the European population did not regain its 14th century level until the 16th century.
black_death: Due to climate change in Asia, rodents began to flee the dried-out grasslands to more populated areas, spreading the disease.
black_death: According to John Norris, evidence from Issyk-Kul indicates a small sporadic outbreak characteristic of transmission from rodents to humans with no wide-scale effect.
black_death: In cases of pneumonic and particularly septicemic plague, the progress of the disease is so rapid that there would often be no time for the development of the enlarged lymph nodes that were noted as buboes.
black_death: There is evidence that once it came ashore, the Black Death mainly spread from person-to-person as pneumonic plague, thus explaining the quick inland spread of the epidemic, which was faster than would be expected if the primary vector was rat fleas causing bubonic plague.
black_death: Another outbreak in Madagascar was reported in November 2014.
black_death: great pits were dug and piled deep with the multitude of dead.
black_death: It was reported that nearly half of the royal army perished.
black_death: In the Strasbourg massacre of February 1349, about 2,000 Jews were murdered.
black_death: Most work has been done on the spread of the disease in England, where estimates of overall population at the start of the plague vary by over 100%, as no census was undertaken in England between the time of publication of the Domesday Book of 1086 and the poll tax of the year 1377.
black_death: Nonetheless, the remarkably high mortality rates during the Datong mortality should discourage us from rejecting the possibility of localized/regional outbreaks of plague in different parts of China, albeit differing in scale from, and unrelated to, the pandemic mortality of the Black Death.
black_death: [the study methodology] invalidates histories of the Black Death that assume Y.
black_death: In 2022, in an article called "The source of the Black Death in fourteenth-century central Eurasia", researchers pointed to the earliest victims of the plague found at two cemeteries in the Chüy Valley near Lake Issyk-Kul in modern Kyrgyzstan.
black_death: Researchers concluded the disease likely spread initially from marmots through contact with raw organs or infected hides, and also transmitted between people through respiratory means.
black_death: This theory is supported by research in 2018 which suggested transmission was more likely by body lice and fleas during the second plague pandemic.
black_death: In fact, the fifteenth century witnessed the beginnings of a great middle-class movement, which can be distinctly traced to the effect of the great pestilence ...
black_death: Symptoms include fever, cough and blood-tinged sputum.
black_death: To answer the increased need for labour, workers travelled in search of the most favorable position economically.
black_death: pestis plague, which occurred in India and killed as much as 3% of the population of certain cities.
black_death: Later genomic papers have further confirmed the phylogenetic placement of the Y.
black_death: At least 60% of the population of Hamburg and Bremen perished, and a similar percentage of Londoners may have died from the disease as well, leaving a death toll of approximately 62,000 between 1346 and 1353.
black_death: Chalmel de Vinario recognised that bloodletting was ineffective (though he continued to prescribe bleeding for members of the Roman Curia, whom he disliked), and said that all true cases of plague were caused by astrological factors and were incurable; he was never able to effect a cure.
black_death: Subsequent to the pandemic "the furste moreyn" (first murrain) or "first pestilence" was applied, to distinguish the mid-14th century phenomenon from other infectious diseases and epidemics of plague.
black_death: Florence's tax records suggest that 80% of the city's population died within four months in 1348.
black_death: The Tian Shan mountains in Kyrgyzstan was a major node on the trade routes leading directly into the Ilkhanate.
black_death: The Chagatai Khanate sits at the very root of the "four-way split" (diversification) of the plague.
black_death: This means the version that devastated the Ilkhanate, the Golden Horde, and Europe all radiated out from this single Central Asian source.
black_death: Boccaccio's description:
black_death: Lars Walløe argued that these authors "take it for granted that Simond's infection model, black rat → rat flea → human, which was developed to explain the spread of plague in India, is the only way an epidemic of Yersinia pestis infection could spread".
black_death: The theory of Chinese origin implicates the Silk Road, the disease possibly spreading alongside Mongol armies and traders, or possibly arriving via ship—however, this theory is still contested.
black_death: Carbon dating revealed two outbreaks, with the earliest cases dating to approximately 5,500 years ago — some 200 years earlier than previously established.
black_death: The pandemic was reportedly first introduced to Europe during the siege of the Genoese trading port of Caffa in Crimea by the Golden Horde army of Jani Beg in 1347.
black_death: Schuenemann et al.
black_death: The isolation period was later extended to forty days, and given the name "quarantino" from the Italian word for "forty".
black_death: A 2022 research paper by Spyrou et al.
black_death: It is speculated that rats aboard Zheng He's ships in the 15th century may have carried the plague to Southeast Asia, India, and Africa.
black_death: Mongol records of illness such as food poisoning may have been referring to the Black Death.
black_death: The expression "black death" had occasionally been applied to other fatal or dangerous diseases.
black_death: The mortality rate of the Black Death in the 14th century was far greater than the worst 20th-century outbreaks of Y.
black_death: The description of the Indian outbreak is somewhat general, focusing more on the suddenness of death and the high fever rather than the distinct physical markers like buboes.
black_death: 1351–1368) that established the Ming Dynasty.
black_death: pestis several days after feeding on an infected host.
black_death: This does not fully explain why the Renaissance occurred in Italy in the 14th century; the Renaissance's emergence was most likely the result of the complex interaction of the above factors, in combination with an influx of Greek scholars after the fall of the Byzantine Empire.
black_death: The discovery in this specific khanate changes the "origin story" of the Black Death from a vague Far Eastern source (China) to a specific Central Asian focal point.
black_death: The immediate effect on the people was a religious paralysis.
black_death: The second pandemic was particularly widespread in the following years: 1360–1363; 1374; 1400; 1438–1439; 1456–1457; 1464–1466; 1481–1485; 1500–1503; 1518–1531; 1544–1548; 1563–1566; 1573–1588; 1596–1599; 1602–1611; 1623–1640; 1644–1654; and 1664–1667.
black_death: Smaller monasteries and convents became unviable and closed.
black_death: Demographic historians estimate that China's population fell by at least 15 per cent, and perhaps as much as a third, between 1340 and 1370.
black_death: Taxes and tithes became difficult to collect, with living poor refusing to cover the share of the rich deceased, because many properties were empty and unfarmed, and because tax-collectors, where they could be employed, refused to go to plague spots.
black_death: reported in Nature the first draft genome of Y.
black_death: From Italy, the disease spread northwest across Europe, striking France, Spain, Portugal, and England by June 1348, then spreading east and north through Germany, Scotland and Scandinavia from 1348 to 1350.
black_death: His use of the phrase is not connected unambiguously with the plague pandemic of 1347 and appears to refer to the fatal outcome of disease.
black_death: A 2026 study published in Nature identified the oldest known evidence of plague outbreaks in human remains, finding traces of Yersinia pestis DNA in the teeth of 18 ancient hunter-gatherers from four cemeteries near Lake Baikal in Siberia.
black_death: pestis from the tooth sockets in human skeletons from mass graves in northern, central and southern Europe that were associated archaeologically with the Black Death and subsequent resurgences.
black_death: Many believed the epidemic was a punishment by God for their sins, and could be relieved by winning God's forgiveness.
black_death: In 2013, researchers confirmed earlier speculation that the cause of the plague of Justinian (541–549, with recurrences until 750) was Y.
black_death: concluded in 2011 "that the Black Death in medieval Europe was caused by a variant of Y.
black_death: The Mongol Empire, founded by Genghis Khan, reached its peak expansion between 1206 and 1279.
black_death: The bubonic plague mechanism was also dependent on two populations of rodents: one resistant to the disease, which act as hosts, keeping the disease endemic, and a second that lacks resistance.
black_death: And as soon as those ditches were filled more were dug ...
black_death: The pandemic completely restructured both religion and political forces; survivors began to turn to other forms of spirituality and the power dynamics of the fiefs and city-states crumbled.
black_death: Mecca became infected in 1348 by pilgrims performing the Hajj.
black_death: However, no evidence of mass graves or direct evidence of the plague have been found in the Ilkhanate dating to the early 1330s CE.
black_death: Religious sensibilities changed:
black_death: This has led some researchers to suggest it may have been a different tropical disease, such as a severe form of malaria or cholera.
black_death: In addition to the bubonic infection, others point to additional septicemic and pneumonic forms of plague, which lengthen the duration of outbreaks throughout the seasons and help account for its high mortality rate and additional recorded symptoms.
black_death: However more recent research notes that the previous sampling contained East Asian bias and that sampling since then has discovered strains of Y.
black_death: In 2014, Public Health England announced the results of an examination of 25 bodies exhumed in the Clerkenwell area of London, as well as of wills registered in London during the period, which supported the pneumonic hypothesis.
black_death: The disease is caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis and is spread by fleas and through the air.
black_death: 'Master Raymond'), observed the decreasing mortality rate of successive outbreaks of plague in 1347–1348, 1362, 1371 and 1382 in his treatise On Epidemics (De epidemica).
black_death: The Nile was choked with corpses despite Cairo having a medieval hospital, the late 13th-century bimaristan of the Qalawun complex.
black_death: pestis strain responsible for the Black Death as both the ancestor of later plague epidemics—including the third plague pandemic—and the descendant of the strain responsible for the Plague of Justinian.
black_death: As the disease took hold, Genoese traders fled across the Black Sea to Constantinople, where the disease first arrived in Europe in summer 1347.
black_death: The survivors of the pandemic found not only that the prices of food were lower but also that lands were more abundant, and many of them inherited property from their dead relatives, and this probably contributed to the destabilization of feudalism.
black_death: Twelve plague outbreaks in Australia between 1900 and 1925 resulted in over 1,000 deaths, chiefly in Sydney.
black_death: This may have led to the Little Ice Age.
black_death: The historian Elizabeth Penrose, writing under the pen-name "Mrs Markham", described the 14th-century outbreak as the "black death" in 1823.
black_death: They assessed the presence of DNA/RNA with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques for Y.
black_death: In addition, plague genomes from prehistory have been recovered.
black_death: Robert Gottfried writes that as early as 1351, "agents for Pope Clement VI calculated the number of dead in Christian Europe at 23,840,000.
black_death: McNeill, in his seminal work Plagues and Peoples (1976), pioneered the theory that the Mongol Empire's trade routes were the primary "caravanserai" for the plague, suggesting the Ilkhanate was the first major urban center to be hit.
black_death: In 1351 or 1352, the Rasulid sultan of the Yemen, al-Mujahid Ali, was released from Mamluk captivity in Egypt and carried plague with him on his return home.
black_death: Historian George Sussman argued that the plague had not occurred in East Africa until the 20th century.
black_death: With a preplague population of about 75 million, Clement's figure accounts for mortality of 31%-a rate about midway between the 50% mortality estimated for East Anglia, Tuscany, and parts of Scandinavia, and the less-than-15% morbidity for Bohemia and Galicia.
black_death: Epidemics killed an estimated 25 million across Asia during the fifteen years before the Black Death reached Constantinople in 1347.
black_death: George Childs Kohn, in his Encyclopedia of Plague and Pestilence, he explicitly lists 1335 as a potential early date for the plague reaching the Ilkhanate, citing the sudden death of the Khan and his court as circumstantial evidence.
black_death: Another theory is that the plague originated near Europe and cycled through the Mediterranean, Northern Europe and Russia before making its way to China.
black_death: pestis was spread from fleas on rats; he argues that transmission must have been person to person.
black_death: However, there is a conspicuous lack of evidence for pandemic disease on the scale of the Black Death in China at this time.
black_death: But along with  population decline from the pandemic, wages soared in response to a subsequent labour shortage.
black_death: pestis arrived in 2010 with a publication in PLOS Pathogens by Haensch et al.
black_death: As a result, China's place in the sequence of the plague's spread is still debated to this day.
black_death: In 1368, the Fall of the Yuan Dynasty in China was due to the combination of plague, famine, and flooding that weakened Mongol authority, fueling the Red Turban Rebellion (c.
black_death: The authors concluded that "the pandemic was immensely destructive in some areas, but in others it had a far lighter touch ...
black_death: The plague created religious, social,  and economic upheavals, with profound effects on the course of European history.
black_death: The 12th–13th century French physician Gilles de Corbeil had already used atra mors to refer to a "pestilential fever" (febris pestilentialis) in his work On the Signs and Symptoms of Diseases (De signis et symptomatibus aegritudium).
black_death: The epidemic there killed the 13-year-old son of the Byzantine emperor, John VI Kantakouzenos, who wrote a description of the disease modelled on Thucydides's account of the 5th century BCE Plague of Athens, noting the spread of the Black Death by ship between maritime cities.
black_death: According to Charles Creighton, records of epidemics in 14th-century China suggest nothing more than typhus and major Chinese outbreaks of epidemic disease post-date the European epidemic by several years.
black_death: While he remains cautious, he highlights that the "administrative paralysis" following 1335 mirrors the later effects of the Black Death in Europe.
black_death: Members of a household brought their dead to a ditch as best they could, without priest, without divine offices ...
black_death: pestis from plague victims from the same East Smithfield cemetery and indicated that the strain that caused the Black Death is ancestral to most modern strains of Y.
black_death: Black Death on In Our Time at the BBC
Black Death at BBC History
black_death: Tunis was then under attack by an army from Morocco; this army dispersed in 1348 and brought the contagion with them to Morocco, whose epidemic may also have been seeded from the Islamic city of Almería in al-Andalus.
black_death: The phrase mors nigra, 'black death', was used in 1350 by Simon de Covino (or Couvin), a Belgian astronomer, in his poem "On the Judgement of the Sun at a Feast of Saturn" (De judicio Solis in convivio Saturni), which attributes the plague to an astrological conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn.
black_death: Left untreated, 80% of victims die within eight days.
black_death: The word "quarantine" has its roots in this period, though the practice of isolating people to prevent the spread of disease is older.
black_death: In Italy, the population of Florence was reduced from between 110,000 and 120,000 inhabitants in 1338 to 50,000 in 1351.
black_death: The plague triggered a profound domestic collapse for the Golden Horde, with the mass death of the ruling elite and the administrative class leading to a period of protracted civil war known as the "Great Troubles" (Zamyatna), beginning in 1359.
black_death: Some estimate that it may have killed between 75,000,000 and 200,000,000 people in Eurasia.
black_death: pestis almost identical to that which hit Madagascar in 2013.
black_death: Lepers, and others with skin diseases such as acne or psoriasis, were killed throughout Europe.
black_death: It disrupted trade as the Mongols relied on trade along the Silk Road and the plague spread along these trade routes, killing the merchants and officials who maintained the network.
black_death: These Muslim doctors also depended on the writings of the ancient Greeks.
black_death: In English, "Black death" was not used to describe this plague pandemic, however, until the 1750s; the term is first attested in 1755, where it translated Danish: den sorte død, lit.
black_death: Currently, while osteoarcheologists have conclusively verified the presence of Y.
black_death: Contemporary accounts of the pandemic are varied and often imprecise.
black_death: Research in 2018 found evidence of Yersinia pestis in an ancient Swedish tomb, which may have been associated with the "Neolithic decline" around 3000 BCE, in which European populations fell significantly.
black_death: That year, in the territory of modern Lebanon, Syria, Israel, and Palestine, the cities of Ascalon, Acre, Jerusalem, Sidon, and Homs were all infected.
black_death: Chroniclers like Gabriele de' Mussi recorded that the Mongols catapulted plague-infected corpses into the city, an early instance of biological warfare, which likely contributed to the escape of infected Genoese ships toward Sicily and Europe.
black_death: pestis as the major agent of the pandemic suggest that its extent and symptoms can be explained by a combination of bubonic plague with other diseases, including typhus, smallpox, and respiratory infections.
black_death: Ibn Battuta provides the primary description of this event at the time the army was stationed near Bidar/Warangal in the Deccan.
black_death: Mathematical modelling is used to match the spreading patterns and the means of transmission.
black_death: An estimate of the case fatality rate for the modern plague, after the introduction of antibiotics, is 11%, although it may be higher in underdeveloped regions.
black_death: There is also no physical or specific textual evidence of the Black Death in 14th century China.
black_death: Plague remained a major event in Ottoman society until the second quarter of the 19th century.
black_death: DNA taken from 25 skeletons from 14th-century London showed that plague is a strain of Y.
black_death: It has also been argued that the Black Death prompted a new wave of piety, manifested in the sponsorship of religious works of art.
black_death: pestis in the Caucasus region previously thought to be restricted to China.
black_death: And I, Agnolo di Tura ...
black_death: And it is unerringly close to Froissart's claim that "a third of the world died," a measurement probably drawn from St.
black_death: The earliest Chinese descriptions of the bubonic plague do not appear until the 1640s.
black_death: pestis was the causative agent of the epidemic plague that devastated Europe during the Middle Ages".
black_death: By autumn 1347, plague had reached Alexandria in Egypt, transmitted by sea from Constantinople via a single merchant ship carrying slaves.
black_death: pestis was discovered by Alexandre Yersin, a pupil of Louis Pasteur, during an epidemic of bubonic plague in Hong Kong in 1894; Yersin also proved this bacterium was present in rodents and suggested the rat was the main vehicle of transmission.
black_death: Many victims were young children, with three young girls buried side by side among the dead.
black_death: Towards the end of January, one of the galleys expelled from Italy arrived in Marseilles.
black_death: Urban centers with higher populations suffered longer periods of abnormal mortality.
black_death: The symptoms of bubonic plague are first attested in a fragment of Rufus of Ephesus preserved by Oribasius; these ancient medical authorities suggest bubonic plague had appeared in the Roman Empire before the reign of Trajan, six centuries before arriving at Pelusium in the reign of Justinian I.
black_death: Finally, it spread to northern Russia in 1352 and reached Moscow in 1353.
black_death: Carried by twelve Genoese galleys, plague arrived by ship in Sicily in October 1347; the disease spread rapidly all over the island.
black_death: Between 1701 and 1750, thirty-seven larger and smaller epidemics were recorded in Constantinople, and an additional thirty-one between 1751 and 1800.
black_death: Many scholars arguing for Y.
black_death: In Cairo, with a population numbering as many as 600,000, and possibly the largest city west of China, between one third and 40% of the inhabitants died within eight months.
black_death: One of the most significant events in European history, the Black Death had far-reaching population, economic, and cultural effects.
black_death: Galleys from Kaffa reached Genoa and Venice in January 1348, but it was the outbreak in Pisa a few weeks later that was the entry point into northern Italy.
black_death: Before 1350, there were about 170,000 settlements in Germany, and this was reduced by nearly 40,000 by 1450.
black_death: Others adopted preventive measures and treatments for plague used by Europeans.
black_death: And there were also those who were so sparsely covered with earth that the dogs dragged them forth and devoured many bodies throughout the city.
black_death: By late summer 1348, it reached Cairo, capital of the Mamluk Sultanate, cultural center of the Islamic world, and the largest city in the Mediterranean Basin; the Bahriyya child sultan an-Nasir Hasan fled and more than a third of the 600,000 residents died.
black_death: It is feared that the plague bacterium could develop drug resistance and again become a major health threat.
black_death: In some places rents collapsed (e.g., lettings "used to bring in £5, and now but £1.")
However, many labourers, artisans, and craftsmen—those living from money-wages alone—suffered a reduction in real incomes owing to rampant inflation.
black_death: There are no exact figures for the death toll; the rate varied widely by locality.
black_death: According to medieval historian Philip Daileader, it is likely that over four years, 45–50% of the European population died of plague.
black_death: The populations of some Italian cities, notably Florence, did not regain their pre-14th century size until the 19th century.
black_death: Benedictow proposes 60% mortality rate for Europe as a whole based on available data, with up to 80% based on poor nutritional conditions in the 14th century.
black_death: Similarly, Monica Green has argued that greater attention is needed to the range of (especially non-commensal) animals that might be involved in the transmission of plague.
black_death: The trade disruptions in the Mongol Empire caused by the Black Death was one of the reasons for its collapse.
black_death: And so they died.
black_death: Seneca the Younger may have been the first to describe an epidemic as 'black death' (Latin: mors atra), but only in reference to the acute lethality and dark prognosis of disease.
black_death: Subsequent outbreaks, though severe, marked the plague's retreat from most of Europe (18th century) and North Africa (19th century).
black_death: This population loss coincided with the Black Death that ravaged Europe and much of the Islamic world in 1347–52.
black_death: The most commonly noted symptom was the appearance of buboes (or gavocciolos) in the groin, neck and armpits, which oozed pus and bled when opened.
black_death: To secure the most necessary public ministrations of the rites of religion the most inadequately-prepared subjects had to be accepted, and even  these could be obtained only in insufficient numbers.
black_death: A study published in 2022 of pollen samples across Europe from 1250 to 1450 was used to estimate changes in agricultural output before and after the Black Death.
black_death: pestis and traces the source to the Tian Shan mountains in Kyrgyzstan.
black_death: One case of a drug-resistant form of the bacterium was found in Madagascar in 1995.
black_death: The mass burial sites that have been excavated have allowed archaeologists to continue interpreting and defining the biological, sociological, historical, and anthropological implications of the Black Death.
black_death: The Black Death became a catalyst for the Mongol Empire's fall.
black_death: Prior to the emergence of the Black Death, the continent was considered a feudalistic society, composed of fiefs and city-states frequently managed by the Catholic Church.
black_death: Baghdad has suffered severely from visitations of the plague, and sometimes two-thirds of its population died.
black_death: The investigation of the pathogen that caused the 19th-century plague was begun by teams of scientists who visited Hong Kong in 1894, among whom was the French-Swiss bacteriologist Alexandre Yersin, for whom the pathogen was named.
black_death: All institutions were affected.
black_death: The level of mortality in the rest of Eastern Europe was likely similar to that of Western Europe in the first outbreak, with descriptions suggesting a similar effect on Russian towns, and the cycles of plague in Russia being roughly equivalent.
black_death: 'the black death'.
black_death: Father abandoned child, wife husband, one brother another; for this illness seemed to strike through the breath and sight.
black_death: Symptoms are high fevers and purple skin patches (purpura due to disseminated intravascular coagulation).
black_death: The pandemic is famously associated with the Siege of Caffa (1346), where the Mongol army under Khan Jani Beg (r.
black_death: During this period many Jews relocated to Poland, where they received a welcome from King Casimir the Great.
black_death: The Black Death killed about 40% of Egypt's population.
black_death: Homer used it in the Odyssey to describe the monstrous Scylla, with her mouths "full of black Death" (Ancient Greek: πλεῖοι μέλανος Θανάτοιο, romanized: pleîoi mélanos Thanátoio).
black_death: The authors found great variability in different regions, with evidence for high mortality in areas of Scandinavia, France, western Germany, Greece, and central Italy, but uninterrupted agricultural growth in central and eastern Europe, Iberia, and Ireland.
black_death: Peter Jackson, in The Mongols and the Islamic World, notes the suspicious timing.
black_death: The Black Death was a plague pandemic that occurred in Europe from 1346 to 1353.
black_death: Plague repeatedly struck the cities of North Africa.
black_death: Others still favor an origin in China.
black_death: During 1349, records show the city of Mosul suffered a massive epidemic, and the city of Baghdad experienced a second round of the disease.
black_death: Pontanus: "Commonly and from its effects, they called it the black death" (Latin: Vulgo & ab effectu atram mortem vocitabant).
black_death: In 1908, Gasquet said use of the name atra mors for the 14th-century epidemic first appeared in a 1631 book on Danish history by J.
black_death: There are records of outbreaks of massive pestilence (waba) around 1334–1335 (Warangal/Bidar Outbreak) and 1344.
black_death: Plague was reportedly first introduced to Europe via Genoese traders from their port city of Kaffa in the Crimea in 1347.
black_death: When the second population dies, the fleas move on to other hosts, including people, thus creating a human epidemic.
black_death: One theory that has been advanced is that the Black Death's devastation of Florence, between 1348 and 1350, resulted in a shift in the world view of people in 14th-century Italy that ultimately led to the Renaissance.
black_death: This confirms that the Yersinia pestis strain found in Kyrgyzstan predates and was the direct ancestor of the Black Death strains that devastated Europe and the Middle East starting in 1346–1347.
black_death: It was one of the most fatal pandemics in human history, leading to the death of up to 50 million people, or 50% of Europe's 14th-century population.
black_death: According to Jean-Noël Biraben, the plague was present somewhere in Europe in every year between 1346 and 1671 (although some researchers have cautions about the uncritical use of Biraben's data).
black_death: There are no records of the symptoms of the Black Death from Mongol sources or writings from travelers east of the Black Sea prior to the Crimean outbreak in 1346.
black_death: looking back into the past, the history of the Church during the Middle Ages in England appears one continuous and stately progress.
black_death: Ole Benedictow argues that since the first clear reports of the Black Death come from Kaffa, the Black Death most likely originated in the nearby plague focus on the northwestern shore of the Caspian Sea.
black_death: The overwhelming number of deaths in Europe sometimes made mass burials necessary, and some sites had hundreds or thousands of bodies.
black_death: The historian Cardinal Francis Aidan Gasquet wrote about the Great Pestilence in 1893 and suggested that it had been "some form of the ordinary Eastern or bubonic plague".
black_death: Research from 2017 suggests plague first infected humans in Europe and Asia in the Late Neolithic to Early Bronze Age.
black_death: Monica Green suggests that other parts of Eurasia outside the west do not contain the same evidence of the Black Death, because there were actually four strains of Yersinia pestis that became predominant in different parts of the world.
black_death: pestis DNA in teeth samples from graves in the area with inscriptions referring to "pestilence" as the cause of death.
black_death: By 1351, 60 major and 150 smaller Jewish communities had been destroyed.
black_death: The authors concluded that this new research, together with prior analyses from the south of France and Germany, "ends the debate about the cause of the Black Death, and unambiguously demonstrates that Y.
black_death: Italy was particularly badly hit by the pandemic, and the resulting familiarity with death may have caused thinkers to dwell more on their lives on Earth, rather than on spirituality and the afterlife.
black_death: By the time the Black Death emerged in Central Asia in the late 1330s, the Mongol Empire had already reached its maximum geographic extent and had fractured into four distinct khanates (the Golden Horde, the Ilkhanate, the Chagatai Khanate, and the Yuan Dynasty).
black_death: Here graves had tombstones with Syriac inscription, providing the name of the deceased, year of death and often the cause of death, showing a spike due to "pestilence" in 1338–1339.
black_death: As the gavocciolo had been and still was an infallible token of approaching death, such also were these spots on whomsoever they showed themselves.
black_death: The first outbreak in Constantinople lasted a year, but the disease recurred ten times before 1400.
black_death: The historian al-Maqrizi described the abundant work for grave-diggers and practitioners of funeral rites; plague recurred in Cairo more than fifty times over the following one and a half centuries.
black_death: Other historians, such as John Norris and Ole Benedictaw, believe the plague likely originated in Europe or the Middle East, and never reached China.
black_death: The Black Death ravaged much of the Islamic world.
black_death: buried my five children with my own hands.
black_death: The Black Death was the second great natural disaster to strike Europe during the Late Middle Ages (the first one being the Great Famine of 1315–1317) and is estimated to have killed 30% to 60% of the European population, as well as approximately 33% of the population of the Middle East.
black_death: The second model claims to better fit the trends of the plague's death toll, as the rat-flea-human hypothesis would have produced a delayed but very high spike in deaths, contradicting historical death data.
black_death: Most people died two to seven days after initial infection.
black_death: Half of Paris's population of 100,000 people died.
black_death: Norris specifically argues for an origin in Kurdistan rather than Central Asia.
black_death: In 1348–1349, the disease reached Antioch.
black_death: In the city-state of Ragusa (modern Dubrovnik, Croatia), a thirty-day isolation period was implemented in 1377 for new arrivals to the city from plague-affected areas.
black_death: The mechanism by which Y.
black_death: Because the Mongols maintained high-speed postal stations (Yam) and protected merchant caravans, they unintentionally created the perfect laboratory for a localized rodent-borne disease to become a transcontinental pandemic.
black_death: In 1346, the plague reached the Horde's territories along the Volga River, devastating major urban centers like the capital Sarai.
black_death: Previously, most European languages had named the pandemic a variant or calque of the Latin: magna mortalitas, lit.
black_death: The evidence does not suggest, at least at present, that these mortality crises were caused by plague.
black_death: It was introduced into Norway in 1349 when a ship landed at Askøy, then spread to Bjørgvin (modern Bergen).
black_death: The 1347 pandemic plague was not referred to specifically as "black", at the time, in any European language.
black_death: Renewed religious fervor and fanaticism increased in the wake of the Black Death.
black_death: In 1348, the disease spread so rapidly that nearly a third of the European population perished before any physicians or government authorities had time to reflect upon its origins.
black_death: During 1347, the disease travelled eastward to Gaza by April; by July it had reached Damascus, and in October plague had broken out in Aleppo.
black_death: It acted as the bridge between the Yuan Dynasty in the east and the Ilkhanate/Golden Horde in the west.
black_death: More than 1.25 million deaths resulted from the extreme incidence of plague in 17th-century Spain.
black_death: And they died by the hundreds both day and night ...
black_death: 1325–1351) does not have records of the Black Death.
black_death: Research on the Delhi Sultanate and the Yuan dynasty shows no evidence of any serious epidemic in 14th-century India and no specific evidence of plague in 14th-century China, suggesting that the Black Death may not have reached these regions.
black_death: And none could be found to bury the dead for money or friendship.
black_death: This was followed by acute fever and vomiting of blood.
black_death: Archaeologist Barney Sloane has argued that there is insufficient evidence of the extinction of numerous rats in the archaeological record of the medieval waterfront in London, and that the disease spread too quickly to support the thesis that Y.
black_death: pestis is usually transmitted was established in 1898 by Paul-Louis Simond and was found to involve the bites of fleas whose midguts had become obstructed by replicating Y.
black_death: In 2018 researchers suggested an alternative model in which "the disease was spread from human fleas and body lice to other people".
black_death: The immediate territorial origins of the Black Death and its outbreak remain unclear, with some evidence pointing towards Central Asia, China, the Middle East, and Europe.
black_death: John France, a military and medieval historian who argues that the "shattering" of the Mongol military machine in the 1330s suggests a massive loss of manpower that political infighting alone cannot explain.
black_death: In 1382, the physician to the Avignon Papacy, Raimundo Chalmel de Vinario (Latin: Magister Raimundus, lit.
black_death: Genetic analysis suggests Yersinia pestis bacteria evolved approximately 7,000 years ago, at the beginning of the Neolithic, with flea-mediated strains emerging around 3,800 years ago during the late Bronze Age.
black_death: There was no one who wept for any death, for all awaited death.
black_death: The phrase 'black death' – describing Death as black – is very old.
black_death: The third plague pandemic (1855–1960) started in China in the mid-19th century, spreading to all inhabited continents and killing 10 million people in India alone.
black_death: There were many attacks against Jewish communities.
black_death: The disease bypassed some areas, with the most isolated areas being less vulnerable to contagion.
black_death: Algiers lost 30,000–50,000 inhabitants to it in 1620–1621, and again in 1654–1657, 1665, 1691, and 1740–1742.
black_death: Some Europeans targeted "various groups such as Jews, friars, foreigners, beggars, pilgrims", lepers, and Romani, blaming them for the crisis.
black_death: Landowners were also pushed to substitute monetary rents for labour services in an effort to keep tenants.
black_death: Some Muslim doctors cautioned against trying to prevent or treat a disease sent by God.
black_death: It is much nearer to the truth to say that in 1351 the whole ecclesiastical system was wholly disorganised, or, indeed, more than half ruined, and that everything had to be built up anew.
black_death: The Waba (Pestilence) was described as a disease that struck with such speed that soldiers would fall dead almost instantly.
black_death: In August 1349, the Jewish communities in Mainz and Cologne were annihilated.
black_death: The Sultan himself became critically ill but survived, eventually retreating to Delhi to escape the contagion.
black_death: In crowded cities, it was not uncommon for as much as 50% of the population to die.
black_death: Further DNA evidence also proves the role of Y.
black_death: This is known as the first plague pandemic.
black_death: By the 1380s in Europe, the plague predominantly affected children.
black_death: Plague could be found in the Islamic world almost every year between 1500 and 1850.
black_death: Later research by a team led by Galina Eroshenko placed its origins more specifically in the Tian Shan mountains on the border between Kyrgyzstan and China.
black_death: It is biologically plausible that the plague was already hitting nomadic camps and trade hubs before it was recorded by urban chroniclers.
black_death: The pandemic spread westwards from Alexandria along the African coast, while in April 1348 Tunis was infected by ship from Sicily.
black_death: John's figure of mortality from plague in the Book of Revelation, a favorite medieval source of information." Ole J.
black_death: The city's residents fled to the north, but most of them ended up dying during the journey.
black_death: Additionally, the Silk Road had already been heavily disrupted before the spread of the Black Death; Western and Middle Eastern traders found it difficult to trade on the Silk Road by 1325 and impossible by 1340, making its role in the spread of plague less likely.
black_death: In October 2017, the deadliest outbreak of the plague in modern times hit Madagascar, killing 170 people and infecting thousands.
black_death: Ole Jørgen Benedictow believes that this indicates it was an offshoot of the first plague pandemic which made its way eastward to Chinese territory by around 600.
black_death: pestis may have been different from more modern types, with bubonic plague transmissible by fleas first known from Bronze Age remains near Samara.
black_death: War and famine – and the diseases that typically accompanied them – probably were the main causes of mortality in the final decades of Mongol rule.
black_death: Later in 2011, Bos et al.
black_death: Cairo suffered more than fifty plague epidemics within 150 years from the plague's first appearance, with the final outbreak of the second pandemic there in the 1840s.
black_death: Definitive confirmation of the role of Y.
black_death: By the 18th century, the population of Cairo was halved from its numbers in 1347.
black_death: In time the religious sense and feeling revived, but in many respects it took a new tone, and its manifestations ran in new channels[...]characterised by a devotional and more self-reflective cast than previously.
black_death: The Chagatai Khanate served as the "Ground Zero" for the genetic ancestor of the Black Death.
black_death: The plague repeatedly returned to haunt Europe and the Mediterranean throughout the 14th to 17th centuries.
black_death: Although some scholars, including McNeill and Cao, see the 1333 outbreak as a prelude to the outbreaks in Europe from the late 1340s to the early 1350s, scholars of the Yuan and Ming periods remain skeptical about such an interpretation.
black_death: What we lack is any indication of a plague pandemic that engulfed vast territories of the Yuan Empire and later moved into western Eurasia through Central Asia.
black_death: Plague did not appear in Flanders until the turn of the 15th century, and the impact was less severe on the populations of Hainaut, Finland, northern Germany, and areas of Poland.
black_death: This led to the establishment of a Public Health Department there which undertook some leading-edge research on plague transmission from rat fleas to humans via the bacillus Yersinia pestis.
black_death: Up to half parish churches lost their priest, apart from the parishioners.
black_death: This blockage starves the fleas, drives them to aggressive feeding behaviour, and causes them to try to clear the blockage via regurgitation, resulting in thousands of plague bacteria flushing into the feeding site and infecting the host.
black_death: Outbreaks of the plague recurred around the world until the early 19th century.
black_death: Plague was less common in parts of Europe with less-established trade relations, including the majority of the Basque Country, isolated parts of Belgium and the Netherlands, and isolated Alpine villages throughout the continent.
black_death: pestis that may no longer exist".
black_death: And so many died that all believed it was the end of the world.
black_death: As the disease progresses, sputum becomes free-flowing and bright red.
black_death: However, there is no clear evidence proving it was due to the Black Death bacterium.
black_death: The plague disease, caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis, is enzootic (commonly present) in populations of fleas carried by ground rodents, including marmots, in various areas, including Central Asia, Kurdistan, West Asia, North India, Uganda, and the western United States.
