blues: This structure consists of a line sung over the first four bars, its repetition over the next four, and a longer concluding line over the last bars.
blues: Chicago became a center for electric blues from 1948 on, when Muddy Waters recorded his first success, "I Can't Be Satisfied".
blues: In the early 20th century, the blues was considered disreputable, especially as white audiences began listening to the blues during the 1920s.
blues: Blues Fell This Morning: Meaning in the Blues.
blues: While the style is often associated with solo piano, boogie-woogie was also used to accompany singers and, as a solo part, in bands and small combos.
blues: During the 1980s, blues also continued in both traditional and new forms.
blues: Many of the slaves brought to North America were from the Sahel region and more familiar with stringed instruments, basing the banjo on string instruments from the Sahel such as the akonting.
blues: A well-known big band blues tune is Glenn Miller's "In the Mood".
blues: However, the blues wave that brought artists such as Muddy Waters to the foreground had stopped.
blues: The 2025 vampire horror film Sinners explores the blues genre through a supernatural narrative placed in the 1930s Mississippi Delta.
blues: In 1986, the album Strong Persuader announced Robert Cray as a major blues artist.
blues: Abbeville Publishing Group (Abbeville Press, Inc.).
blues: The 12-bar blues structure can be found even in novelty pop songs, such as Bob Dylan's "Obviously Five Believers" and Esther and Abi Ofarim's "Cinderella Rockefella".
blues: In England, electric blues took root there during a much acclaimed Muddy Waters tour in 1958.
blues: For instance Blind Lemon Jefferson's "Rising High Water Blues" (1927) tells of the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927:
blues: Gordon, who became head of the Archive of American Folk Songs of the Library of Congress.
blues: The lively Memphis blues style, which developed in the 1920s and 1930s near Memphis, Tennessee, was influenced by jug bands such as the Memphis Jug Band or the Gus Cannon's Jug Stompers.
blues: These female performers became perhaps the first African-American "superstars", and their recording sales demonstrated "a huge appetite for records made by and for black people."  The blues evolved from informal performances in bars to entertainment in theaters.
blues: After World War II, new styles of electric blues became popular in cities such as Chicago, Memphis, Detroit and St.
blues: Jazz Lexikon (in German).
blues: King, Buddy Guy, Gary Clark Jr., Jeff Beck, Derek Trucks, Keb Mo, and others.
blues: Eddison Press.
blues: Rowe, Mike (1973).
blues: Allyn & Bacon.
blues: The origins of spirituals go back much further than the blues, usually dating back to the middle of the 18th century, when the slaves were Christianized and began to sing and play Christian hymns, in particular those of Isaac Watts, which were very popular.
blues: Archived from the original on September 5, 2005.
blues: In 1920, the vaudeville singer Lucille Hegamin became the second black woman to record blues when she recorded "The Jazz Me Blues", and Victoria Spivey, sometimes called Queen Victoria or Za Zu Girl, had a recording career that began in 1926 and spanned forty years.
blues: Blues music also adopted elements from the "Ethiopian airs", minstrel shows and Negro spirituals, including instrumental and harmonic accompaniment.
blues: Oakley, Giles (1976).
blues: Clarke, Donald (1995).
blues: Songs from this genre include "Scratch my Back," "She's Tough," and "I'm a King Bee".
blues: 253 + [2] pp.
blues: Muddy Waters and Elmore James were known for their innovative use of slide electric guitar.
blues: Garofalo, Reebee (1997).
blues: White performers such as the Rolling Stones and the Beatles had brought African-American music to new audiences,  within the U.S.
blues: It was the low-down music played by rural blacks.
blues: Musically, spirituals were a descendant of New England choral traditions, and in particular of Isaac Watts's hymns, mixed with African rhythms and call-and-response forms.
blues: The blues form is ubiquitous in jazz, rhythm and blues, and rock and roll, and is characterized by the call-and-response pattern, the blues scale, and specific chord progressions, of which the twelve-bar blues is the most common.
blues: The audience for both blues and jazz split, and the border between blues and jazz became more defined.
blues: His album Alabama Blues contained a song with the following lyric:
blues: Blues Singers: Biographies of 50 Legendary Artists of the Early 20th Century.
blues: Director Ryan Coogler directs Sinners, which weaved together both African American musical traditions and Chinese cosmological mythology.
blues: It created a space where people could express personal truth without fear of being punished or ignored.
blues: An important label of this era was the Chicago-based Bluebird Records.
blues: Eric Clapton, known for his performances with the Blues Breakers and Cream, made a comeback in the 1990s with his album Unplugged, in which he played some standard blues numbers on acoustic guitar.
blues: Abbott, Lynn; Doug Seroff.
blues: Ferris, Jean (1993).
blues: Conversation with the Blues, Volume 1.
blues: In addition to its music, the movie also focuses on the blues as a narration vehicle, the personal hardships of its characters attached to the social and racial processes of the American South in general.
blues: Strongly influenced by Jimmy Reed, swamp blues has a slower pace and a simpler use of the harmonica than the Chicago blues style performers such as Little Walter or Muddy Waters.
blues: The writer Ed Morales claimed that Yoruba mythology played a part in early blues, citing Robert Johnson's "Cross Road Blues" as a "thinly veiled reference to Eleggua, the orisha in charge of the crossroads." However, the Christian influence was far more obvious.
blues: The (Mississippi) Delta blues was a rootsy sparse style with passionate vocals accompanied by slide guitar.
blues: By the 1800s in the United States, the term "blues" was associated with drinking alcohol, a meaning which survives in the phrase 'blue law', which prohibits the sale of alcohol on Sunday.
blues: These observations coincide more or less with the recollections of Jelly Roll Morton, who said he first heard blues music in New Orleans in 1902; Ma Rainey, who remembered first hearing the blues in the same year in Missouri; and W.C.
blues: The Rise and Fall of Popular Music.
blues: Little Walter, Sonny Boy Williamson (Rice Miller) and Sonny Terry are well known harmonica (called "harp" by blues musicians) players of the early Chicago blues scene.
blues: This pattern can be heard in some of the first published blues songs, such as "Dallas Blues" (1912) and "Saint Louis Blues" (1914).
blues: Contemporary blues music is nurtured by several blues labels such as Alligator Records, Ruf Records, Severn Records, Chess Records (MCA), Delmark Records, NorthernBlues Music, Fat Possum Records, and Vanguard Records (Artemis Records).
blues: The banjo seems to be directly imported from West African music.
blues: The close association with the devil was actually a well-known characteristic of blues lyrics and culture between the 1920s and 1960s.
blues: Electric blues used electric guitars, double bass (gradually replaced by bass guitar), drums, and harmonica (or "blues harp") played through a microphone and a PA system or an overdriven guitar amplifier.
blues: Call-and-response shouts were an early form of blues-like music; they were a "functional expression ...
blues: Singers such as Blind Willie McTell and Blind Boy Fuller performed in the southeastern "delicate and lyrical" Piedmont blues tradition, which used an elaborate ragtime-based fingerpicking guitar technique.
blues: It is associated with the newly acquired freedom of the former slaves.
blues: Blues performers such as John Lee Hooker and Muddy Waters continued to perform to enthusiastic audiences, inspiring new artists steeped in traditional blues, such as New York–born Taj Mahal.
blues: According to Kubik, "the vocal style of many blues singers using melisma, wavy intonation, and so forth is a heritage of that large region of The Western Sahel that had been in contact with the Islamic world via the Maghreb since the seventh and eighth centuries ".
blues: In the 1990s, the largely ignored hill country blues gained minor recognition in both blues and alternative rock music circles with northern Mississippi artists R.
blues: His first hit, "Boogie Chillen", reached number 1 on the R&B charts in 1949.
blues: ISBN 978-0-670-49511-5.
blues: "Blues in the Lower Chattahoochee Valley" Southern Spaces.
blues: Many compilations of classic prewar blues were republished by the Yazoo Records.
blues: In 1963, Amiri Baraka, then known as LeRoi Jones, was the first to write a book on the social history of the blues in Blues People: The Negro Music in White America.
blues: Brown & Benchmark.
blues: Bluesland: Portraits of Twelve Major American Blues Masters.
blues: Other harp players such as Big Walter Horton were also influential.
blues: R&B music can be traced back to spirituals and blues.
blues: Goode", "Blue Suede Shoes", "Whole Lotta Shakin' Goin On", "Shake, Rattle, and Roll", and "Long Tall Sally".
blues: Handy's "The Memphis Blues" followed in the same year.
blues: Bebop marked a major shift in the role of jazz, from a popular style of music for dancing to a "high-art", less accessible, cerebral "musician's music".
blues: Prentice Hall.
blues: ISBN 978-0-8078-4482-3.
blues: Bebop classics, such as Charlie Parker's "Now's the Time", used the blues form with the pentatonic scale and blue notes.
blues: Brown, Luther.
blues: She overcame her depression and later noted a number of songs, such as "Poor Rosy", that were popular among the slaves.
blues: Pianist Memphis Slim began his career in Memphis, but his distinct style was smoother and had some swing elements.
blues: Blues forms are used in the theme to the televised Batman, teen idol Fabian Forte's hit, "Turn Me Loose", country music star Jimmie Rodgers' music, and guitarist or vocalist Tracy Chapman's hit "Give Me One Reason".
blues: Jump blues tunes by Louis Jordan and Big Joe Turner, based in Kansas City, Missouri, influenced the development of later styles such as rock and roll and rhythm and blues.
blues: Rhythmic motion is shaped by shuffle patterns and steady bass lines, producing a forward-driving groove.
blues: Similar techniques can be found in hundreds of blues records."
The lyrics often relate troubles experienced within African American society.
blues: Almost 30 years later, Mahal wrote blues for, and performed a banjo composition, claw-hammer style, in the 2001 movie release Songcatcher, which focused on the story of the preservation of the roots music of Appalachia.
blues: The first publication of blues sheet music was in 1908.
blues: King and Howlin' Wolf before he moved to Chicago in 1960.
blues: ISBN 978-0-393-03843-9.
blues: Early Downhome Blues: A Musical and Cultural Analysis (2nd ed.).
blues: Odum documented secular songs from circa 1908–1910 that featured freely repeated or extended verses and flexible stanzaic forms.
blues: In Henry David Thoreau's book Walden, he mentions "the blues" in the chapter reflecting on his time in solitude.
blues: According to the historian Paul Oliver, "the roots of the blues were not to be found in the coastal and forest regions of Africa.
blues: The blues scale is often used in popular songs like Harold Arlen's "Blues in the Night", blues ballads like "Since I Fell for You" and "Please Send Me Someone to Love", and even in orchestral works such as George Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue" and "Concerto in F".
blues: Early traditional blues verses consisted of a single line repeated four times.
blues: Since the 1980s, there has been a resurgence of interest in the blues among a certain part of the African-American population, particularly around Jackson, Mississippi, and other deep South regions.
blues: Early traditional blues verses often consisted of a single line repeated four times.
blues: The first appearance of the blues is often dated to after the ending of slavery, with the development of juke joints occurring later.
blues: This music is poorly documented, partly because of racial discrimination in U.S.
blues: Burnside and Junior Kimbrough.
blues: Boogie-woogie was another important style of 1930s and early 1940s urban blues.
blues: By the late 1950s, the swamp blues genre developed near Baton Rouge, with performers such as Lightnin' Slim, Slim Harpo, Sam Myers and Jerry McCain around the producer J.
blues: Boogie-woogie style was characterized by a regular bass figure, an ostinato or riff and shifts of level in the left hand, elaborating each chord and trills and decorations in the right hand.
blues: ISBN 978-0-8180-1223-5.
blues: Waters, unsuspecting of his audience's tendency towards skiffle, an acoustic, softer brand of blues, turned up his amp and started to play his Chicago brand of electric blues.
blues: London: Studio Vista.
blues: This shows how the blues challenged moral expectations.
blues: Some scholars identify strong influences on the blues from the melodic structures of certain West African musical styles of the Savanna and Sahel.
blues: However the call-and-response format can be traced back to the music of Africa.
blues: Kunzler, Martin (1988).
blues: Other structures, including 8-bar and 16-bar progressions, are also widespread.
blues: When Jerry Lee Lewis returned to country music after the decline of 1950s style rock and roll, he sang with a blues feel and often included blues standards on his albums.
blues: In the 1920s, the blues became a major element of African-American and American popular music, also reaching white audiences via Handy's arrangements and the classic female blues performers.
blues: Although the blues gained an association with misery and oppression, the lyrics could also be humorous and raunchy:
blues: The saxophonist J.
blues: Charles Peabody mentioned the appearance of blues music at Clarksdale, Mississippi, and Gate Thomas reported similar songs in southern Texas around 1901–1902.
blues: The Devil's Music: A History of the Blues.
blues: By the beginning of the 1960s, genres influenced by African American music such as rock and roll and soul were part of mainstream popular music.
blues: Several scholars characterize the development of blues music in the early 1900s as a move from group performance to individualized performance.
blues: Lucy Durran finds similarities with the melodies of the Bambara people, and to a lesser degree, the Soninke people and Wolof people, but not as much of the Mandinka people.
blues: The result has been a uniquely American music which is still widely practiced in its original form and is at the foundation of another genre, American jazz.
blues: However, in the 1920s, when country blues began to be recorded, the use of the banjo in blues music was quite marginal and limited to individuals such as Papa Charlie Jackson and later Gus Cannon.
blues: Jump blues grew up from the boogie-woogie wave and was strongly influenced by big band music.
blues: Southern, Eileen (1997).
blues: style without accompaniment or harmony and unbounded by the formality of any particular musical structure".
blues: Comentale has noted how the blues was often used as a medium for art or self-expression, stating: "As heard from Delta shacks to Chicago tenements to Harlem cabarets, the blues proved—despite its pained origins—a remarkably flexible medium and a new arena for the shaping of identity and community."
blues: Many blues musicians based in Memphis moved to Chicago in the late 1930s or early 1940s and became part of the urban blues movement.
blues: John Lee Hooker's popularity was revived with the album The Healer in 1989.
blues: Hokum blues celebrated both comedic lyrical content and a boisterous, farcical performance style.
blues: ISBN 978-0-226-42960-1.
blues: "Hound Dog", with its unmodified 12-bar structure (in both harmony and lyrics) and a melody centered on flatted third of the tonic (and flatted seventh of the subdominant), is a blues song transformed into a rock and roll song.
blues: The "West Side sound" had strong rhythmic support from a rhythm guitar, bass guitar, and drums and as perfected by Guy, Freddie King, Magic Slim, and Luther Allison, was dominated by amplified electric lead guitar.
blues: List of blues festivals
List of blues musicians
List of blues standards
blues: He also participated in the rendition of compilations of major blues artists in a series of high-quality CDs.
blues: No specific African musical form can be identified as the single direct ancestor of the blues.
blues: Early blues frequently took the form of a loose narrative, often relating the racial segregation, discrimination, and other challenges experienced by African Americans.
blues: These artists all began their musical careers in the 1970s but they did not achieve international success until the next decade.
blues: Depending on the religious community a musician belonged to, it was more or less considered a sin to play this low-down music: blues was the devil's music.
blues: Odum, who published an anthology of folk songs from Lafayette County, Mississippi, and Newton County, Georgia, between 1905 and 1908.
blues: Encyclopedia of the Blues.
blues: It is similar to the musical instrument that griots and other Africans such as the Igbo played (called halam or akonting by African peoples such as the Wolof, Fula and Mandinka).
blues: This period corresponds to the transition from slavery to sharecropping, small-scale agricultural production, and the expansion of railroads in the southern United States.
blues: ISBN 978-1-55859-271-1.
blues: America's Musical Landscape.
blues: A form of this pre-blues was heard in slave ring shouts and field hollers, expanded into "simple solo songs laden with emotional content".
blues: Regional styles of country blues varied widely in the early 20th century.
blues: Da Capo Press.
blues: African rhythms and storytelling traditions, as described by Robert Palmer, also helped musicians connect individual experiences to the wider community.
blues: Before World War II, the boundaries between blues and jazz were less clear.
blues: At the time, there was no clear musical division between "blues" and "country", except for the ethnicity of the performer, and even that was sometimes documented incorrectly by record companies.
blues: A lot of the 1970s-era "outlaw" country music by Willie Nelson and Waylon Jennings also borrowed from the blues.
blues: Despite the Islamic influence,  Arabic music elements have not had any influence in the Sahel region according to kubik "This style has remained unaffected by the Arabic/Islamic musical intrusion which reached West Africa along the trans-Saharan trading routes".
blues: Before the blues gained its formal definition in terms of chord progressions, it was defined as the secular counterpart of spirituals.
blues: prompted a resurgence of interest in American roots music and early African-American music.
blues: Many elements, such as the call-and-response format and the use of blue notes, can be traced back to the music of Africa.
blues: Urban Blues.
blues: Chicago blues is influenced to a large extent by Delta blues, because many performers had migrated from the Mississippi region.
blues: Early country music was infused with the blues.
blues: Jerry Lee Lewis's style of rock and roll was heavily influenced by the blues and its derivative boogie-woogie.
blues: The musical forms and styles that are now considered the blues as well as modern country music arose in the same regions of the southern United States during the 19th century.
blues: Mamie Smith, more a vaudeville performer than a blues artist, was the first African American to record a blues song, in 1920; her second record, "Crazy Blues", sold 75,000 copies in its first month.
blues: In contrast with the West Side blues, the Texas style is strongly influenced by the British rock-blues movement.
blues: Reprint: ISBN 978-0-13-648360-1.
blues: Jackson, MS: University Press of Mississippi, 2019.
blues: During this period, Freddie King and Albert King often played with rock and soul musicians (Eric Clapton and Booker T & the MGs) and had a major influence on those styles of music.
blues: In the 1950s, blues had a huge influence on mainstream American popular music.
blues: The film earned Mahal a Grammy nomination for Best Original Score Written for a Motion Picture and a BAFTA nomination.
blues: ISBN 978-3-499-16316-6.
blues: In the 1960s and 1970s, a hybrid form called blues rock developed, which blended blues styles with rock music.
blues: The origins of the blues are closely related to the religious music of Afro-American community, the spirituals.
blues: Lawrence Cohn, ed.
blues: The Griot  tradition is also generally absent in Bantu speaking central, Eastern and Southern African cultures, again pointing to a Sahelian foundation (along with European 12-tone musical instruments and Harmony) of African American music.
blues: This is shown when Monkey King, Sun Wukong is introduced.
blues: According to Lawrence Levine, "there was a direct relationship between the national ideological emphasis upon the individual, the popularity of Booker T.
blues: Although she admitted being unable to describe the manner of singing she heard, Forten wrote that the songs "can't be sung without a full heart and a troubled spirit", conditions that have inspired countless blues songs.
blues: Spiritual singing developed because African-American communities could gather for mass or worship gatherings, which were called camp meetings.
blues: A singer might describe gambling, drinking, or cheating not just as bad behavior but as a reaction to hard times.
blues: Yet, if one looks back further, Arnold also started out singing bluesy songs like 'I'll Hold You in My Heart'.
blues: Performers such as Frank Stokes, Sleepy John Estes, Robert Wilkins, Kansas Joe McCoy, Casey Bill Weldon, and Memphis Minnie used a variety of unusual instruments such as washboard, fiddle, kazoo or mandolin.
blues: Charters found that many Sahelian slaves were from Muslim cultures and favored stringed, melodic, and solo melismatic singing, which differed from the drum-based music of other African regions, who generally favoured drumming and group chants.
blues: Reports of blues music in southern Texas and the Deep South were written at the dawn of the 20th century.
blues: Blues has evolved from the unaccompanied vocal music and oral traditions of slaves imported from West Africa and black Americans in rural areas into a wide variety of styles and subgenres, with regional variations across the United States.
blues: Gershwin's second "Prelude" for solo piano is an interesting example of a classical blues, maintaining the form with academic strictness.
blues: Georgia also had an early slide tradition, with Curley Weaver, Tampa Red, "Barbecue Bob" Hicks and James "Kokomo" Arnold as representatives of this style.
blues: Gospel music was nevertheless using musical forms that were compatible with Christian hymns and therefore less marked by the blues form than its secular counterpart.
blues: Gerard Kubik finds similarities to the melodic styles of both the west African savanna and central Africa, both of which were sources of enslaved people.
blues: In the 1950s, soul music by Sam Cooke, Ray Charles, and James Brown used gospel and blues music elements.
blues: The slide guitar became an important part of the Delta blues.
blues: Blues performances were organized by the Theater Owners Booking Association in nightclubs such as the Cotton Club and juke joints such as the bars along Beale Street in Memphis.
blues: University of Arkansas Press.
blues: Funk music of the 1970s was influenced by soul; funk can be seen as an antecedent of hip-hop and contemporary R&B.
blues: ISBN 978-0-06-052427-2.
blues: By this time, the blues has coalesced into an important aspect of African American culture, expressing the hardships and culture of black communities.
blues: In the 1930s, Lomax and his son Alan made a large number of non-commercial blues recordings that testify to the huge variety of proto-blues styles, such as field hollers and ring shouts.
blues: ISBN 978-0-205-13703-9.
blues: Tampa Red and Georgia Tom's "It's Tight Like That" (1928) is a sly wordplay with the double meaning of being "tight" with someone, coupled with a more salacious physical familiarity.
blues: The long boom following World War II induced another massive migration of the African-American population, the Second Great Migration, which was accompanied by a significant increase of the real income of the urban blacks.
blues: The British and blues musicians of the early 1960s inspired a number of American blues rock performers, including Canned Heat, Janis Joplin, Johnny Winter, the J.
blues: The phrase "the blues" was written by Charlotte Forten, then aged 25, in her diary on December 14, 1862.
blues: Deep Blues.
blues: ISBN 978-0-88258-178-1.
blues: These blueswomen's contributions to the genre included "increased improvisation on melodic lines, unusual phrasing which altered the emphasis and impact of the lyrics, and vocal dramatics using shouts, groans, moans, and wails.
blues: Northeastern University Press.
blues: He wrote his account of his personal quest in 1845, although it was not published until 1854.
blues: The first recording by an African-American singer was Mamie Smith's 1920 rendition of Perry Bradford's "Crazy Blues".
blues: Most artists of the Chicago blues style recorded for the Chicago-based Chess Records and Checker Records labels.
blues: Rohwolt Taschenbuch Verlag.
blues: Smaller blues labels of this era included Vee-Jay Records and J.O.B.
blues: and abroad.
blues: Contemporary African-American performers who work in this style of the blues include Bobby Rush, Denise LaSalle, Sir Charles Jones, Bettye LaVette, Marvin Sease, Peggy Scott-Adams, Clarence Carter, Charles Bradley, Trudy Lynn, Roy C, Barbara Carr, Willie Clayton, and Shirley Brown, among others.
blues: Through these artists and others, blues music influenced the development of rock music.
blues: This rolling feel became central to R&B and swing music.
blues: John Lee Hooker blended his blues style with rock elements and playing with younger white musicians, creating a musical style that can be heard on the 1971 album Endless Boogie.
blues: Musicians were therefore segregated into two categories: gospel singers and blues singers, guitar preachers and songsters.
blues: The band formed also began a successful tour under the Blues Brothers marquee.
blues: Panorama of American Popular Music.
blues: But the origins of the blues were some decades earlier, probably around 1890.
blues: Bluesmen such as Big Bill Broonzy and Willie Dixon started looking for new markets in Europe.
blues: Wald, Elijah (2004).
blues: University of North Carolina Press.
blues: The music of the civil rights movement and Free Speech Movement in the U.S.
blues: Schuller, Gunther (1968).
blues: ISBN 978-0-85649-015-6.
blues: A typical twelve-bar blues is set in 44 time signature and uses three closely related chords arranged in a fixed sequence.
blues: Tennessee-born Bobby "Blue" Bland, like B.
blues: Blues became a code word for a record designed to sell to black listeners.
blues: ISBN 978-0-19-504043-2.
blues: Additionally, there are theories that the four-beats-per-measure structure of the blues might have its origins in the Native American tradition of pow wow drumming.
blues: Dicaire, David (1999).
blues: More unusual forms appear as well, such as the nine-bar "Sitting on Top of the World" by Walter Vinson.
blues: ISBN 978-1-55553-355-7.
blues: Major artists of the Texas style are Johnny Winter, Stevie Ray Vaughan, the Fabulous Thunderbirds (led by harmonica player and singer-songwriter Kim Wilson), and ZZ Top.
blues: With the rise of recorded blues singers such as Bessie Smith, the twelve-bar form became increasingly common during the 1920s and 1930s.
blues: This rapidly evolving market was mirrored by Billboard magazine's Rhythm & Blues chart.
blues: "Muslim Roots of the Blues".
blues: Lenoir from the Chicago blues movement in the 1950s recorded several LPs using acoustic guitar, sometimes accompanied by Willie Dixon on the acoustic bass or drums.
blues: Although the audience was largely jolted by the performance, the performance influenced local musicians such as Alexis Korner and Cyril Davies to emulate this louder style, inspiring the British Invasion of the Rolling Stones and the Yardbirds.
blues: Later, several recordings were made by Robert W.
blues: His songs, originally distributed only in Europe, commented on political issues such as racism or Vietnam War issues, which was unusual for this period.
blues: Female blues singers such as Bonnie Raitt, Susan Tedeschi, Sue Foley, and Shannon Curfman also recorded albums.
blues: In the early 1970s, the Texas rock-blues style emerged, which used guitars in both solo and rhythm roles.
blues: Curiel, Jonathan (August 15, 2004).
blues: Titon, Jeff Todd (1994).
blues: While popular musicians like Bo Diddley and Chuck Berry, both recording for Chess, were influenced by the Chicago blues, their enthusiastic playing styles departed from the melancholy aspects of blues.
blues: In lyrics, the phrase is often used to describe a depressed mood.
blues: Herzhaft, Gérard; Harris, Paul; Debord, Brigitte (1997).
blues: New York: Horizon Press.
blues: ISBN 978-0-306-81018-3.
blues: Blues subgenres include country blues, Delta blues and Piedmont blues, as well as urban blues styles such as Chicago blues and West Coast blues.
blues: Zydeco musicians used electric solo guitar and cajun arrangements of blues standards.
blues: In the 1980s and 1990s, blues publications such as Living Blues and Blues Revue were launched, major cities began forming blues societies, outdoor blues festivals became more common, and Tedeschi Trucks Band and Gov't Mule released blues rock albums.
blues: World War II marked the transition from acoustic to electric blues and the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience, especially white listeners.
blues: Bransford, Steve (2004).
blues: Ma Rainey, the "Mother of Blues", and Bessie Smith each "[sang] around center tones, perhaps in order to project her voice more easily to the back of a room".
blues: In the 1960s and 1970s, gospel and blues were merged in soul blues music.
blues: In addition to Robert Johnson, influential performers of this style included his predecessors Charley Patton and Son House.
blues: Country blues performers often improvised, either without accompaniment or with only a banjo or guitar.
blues: "Cashing In: 1900–1939".
blues: Dick Waterman and the blues festivals he organized in Europe played a major role in propagating blues music abroad.
blues: These bars are often grouped into three four-bar phrases that align with an "AAB" call-and-response pattern: an opening phrase over the tonic (I), a repeated phrase over the subdominant (IV), and a concluding response over the dominant (V), with the final measures frequently forming a turnaround.
blues: Center for the Study of Southern Culture and the University of Mississippi, the foremost institution for blues scholarship in the U.S.
blues: Blue notes (or "worried notes"), usually thirds, fifths or sevenths flattened in pitch, are also an essential part of the sound.
blues: Blues music is characterized by its lyrics, bass lines, and instrumentation.
blues: The blues was highlighted in season 2012, episode 1 of In Performance at the White House, entitled "Red, White and Blues".
blues: The lyrics are often sung in a rhythmic talk style rather than a melody, resembling a form of talking blues.
blues: Dorsey helped to popularize Gospel music.
blues: blues legends, and UK blues rock-based bands had an influential role throughout the 1960s.
blues: The social and economic reasons for the appearance of the blues are not fully known.
blues: LCCN 2003052287.
blues: The origins of the blues are also closely related to the religious music of the African-American community, the spirituals.
blues: The big kora of Senegal and Guinea are played in a rhythmic-melodic style that uses constantly changing rhythms, often providing a ground bass overlaid with complex treble patterns, while vocal supplies a third rhythmic layer.
blues: Handy was a formally trained musician, composer, and arranger who helped to popularize the blues by transcribing and orchestrating blues in an almost symphonic style, with bands and singers.
blues: Gospel music developed in the 1930s, with the Golden Gate Quartet.
blues: King, Bo Diddley, Erykah Badu, Eric Clapton, Steve Winwood, Charlie Musselwhite, Blues Traveler, Jimmie Vaughan, and Jeff Baxter.
blues: Chicago boogie-woogie performers included Clarence "Pine Top" Smith and Earl Hines, who "linked the propulsive left-hand rhythms of the ragtime pianists with melodic figures similar to those of Armstrong's trumpet in the right hand".
blues: However, the jump blues of the 1940s mixed both styles.
blues: A Jazzman's Blues by Tyler Perry (2022) is a film that provides a cinematic reflection of the blues, set in the background of the 1940s Deep South.
blues: ISBN 978-1-55728-452-5.
blues: Examples include "How Long, How Long Blues", "Trouble in Mind", Big Bill Broonzy's "Key to the Highway", Ray Charles's "Sweet 16 Bars", and Herbie Hancock's "Watermelon Man".
blues: Chicago Breakdown.
blues: "Jay" Miller and the Excello label.
blues: Ewen, David (1957).
blues: Smith would "sing a song in an unusual key, and her artistry in bending and stretching notes with her beautiful, powerful contralto to accommodate her own interpretation was unsurpassed".
blues: Folklorist Howard W.
blues: Martin's Press.
blues: Many early rock and roll songs are based on blues: "That's All Right Mama", "Johnny B.
blues: The notion of blues as a separate genre arose during the black migration from the countryside to urban areas in the 1920s and the simultaneous development of the recording industry.
blues: The first Stevie Ray Vaughan recording Texas Flood was released in 1983, and the Texas-based guitarist exploded onto the international stage.
blues: The blues' 12-bar structure and the blues scale was a major influence on rock and roll music.
blues: This flexibility supports expressive phrasing and improvisation.
blues: The Griot tradition of the Sahel also may have influenced talking blues and by extension hip-hop.
blues: Instead, singers used church language because it was familiar in their communities and helped them express feelings of guilt, struggle, and desire.
blues: He composed and wrote many standard blues songs of the period, such as "Hoochie Coochie Man", "I Just Want to Make Love to You" (both penned for Muddy Waters), and "Wang Dang Doodle" and "Back Door Man" for Howlin' Wolf.
blues: Palmer, Robert (1981).
blues: By 1912, the sheet music industry had published three popular blues-like compositions, precipitating the Tin Pan Alley adoption of blues elements: "Baby Seals' Blues", by Baby Franklin Seals (arranged by Artie Matthews); "Dallas Blues", by Hart Wand; and "The Memphis Blues", by W.C.
blues: Brown played in bands led by Elmore James and by J.
blues: Blues songs with sexually explicit lyrics were known as dirty blues.
blues: During the early 1950s, the dominating Chicago labels were challenged by Sam Phillips' Sun Records company in Memphis, which recorded B.
blues: Usually, jazz had harmonic structures stemming from brass bands, whereas blues had blues forms such as the 12-bar blues.
blues: In contrast to the Chicago style, King's band used strong brass support from a saxophone, trumpet, and trombone, instead of using slide guitar or harp.
blues: Blues has incorporated spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts, chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads from the African-American culture.
blues: Rock and roll has been called "blues with a backbeat"; Carl Perkins called rockabilly "blues with a country beat".
blues: White audiences' interest in the blues during the 1960s increased due to the Chicago-based Paul Butterfield Blues Band, featuring guitarist Michael Bloomfield and singer/songwriter Nick Gravenites, and the British blues movement.
blues: Perhaps the most visible example of the blues style of music in the late 20th century came in 1980, when Dan Aykroyd and John Belushi released the film The Blues Brothers.
blues: Several record companies, such as the American Record Corporation, Okeh Records, and Paramount Records, began to record African-American music.
blues: King, also straddled the blues and R&B genres.
blues: The movie is based on a multi-generational plot of forbidden romance, family values, and issues of self-emancipation, all accompanied by blues music.
blues: Howlin' Wolf and Muddy Waters were known for their deep, "gravelly" voices.
blues: Hendrix was a skilled guitarist, and a pioneer in the innovative use of distortion and audio feedback in his music.
blues: Hosted by Barack and Michelle Obama, the show featured performances by B.B.
blues: That blue notes predate their use in blues and have an African origin is attested to by "A Negro Love Song", by the English composer Samuel Coleridge-Taylor, from his African Suite for Piano, written in 1898, which contains blue third and seventh notes.
blues: Before World War II, Tampa Red was sometimes referred to as "the Guitar Wizard".
blues: Vocal and instrumental patterns frequently display a call-and-response structure rooted in African and African-American musical traditions.
blues: The term race record, initially used by the music industry for African-American music, was replaced by the term rhythm and blues.
blues: They argue that the development of the blues is associated with the newly acquired freedom of the enslaved people.
blues: Like many other genres, blues has been called the "devil's music" or "music of the devil", even of inciting violence and other poor behavior.
blues: "Inside Poor Monkey's", Southern Spaces, June 22, 2006.
blues: It uses saxophone or other brass instruments and the guitar in the rhythm section to create a jazzy, up-tempo sound with declamatory vocals.
blues: Whereas the African slaves brought to South America and the Caribbean were largely from percussion based cultures in southern coastal west Africa (like southern Nigeria), central Africa and Bantu speaking parts of Africa lacked many elements that created the blues.
blues: However, when rural black music began to be recorded in the 1920s, both categories of musicians used similar techniques: call-and-response patterns, blue notes, and slide guitars.
blues: Later in the 1960s, British singer Jo Ann Kelly started her recording career.
blues: The first non-commercial recordings of blues music, termed proto-blues by Paul Oliver, were made by Odum for research purposes at the beginning of the 20th century.
blues: Kentucky-born Sylvester Weaver was in 1923 the first to record the slide guitar style, in which a guitar is fretted with a knife blade or the sawed-off neck of a bottle.
blues: Morales, Ed (2003).
blues: the blues was rooted in ...
blues: Nothing but the Blues: The Music and the Musicians.
blues: However, beginning in the 1990s, digital multi-track recording and other technological advances and new marketing strategies, including video clip production, increased costs, challenging the spontaneity and improvisation that are an important component of blues music.
blues: The bassist and prolific songwriter and composer Willie Dixon played a major role on the Chicago blues scene.
blues: This commercial stream had important consequences for blues music, which, together with jazz and gospel music, became a component of R&B.
blues: The historian Sylviane Diouf and ethnomusicologist Gerhard Kubik identify Islamic music as an influence on blues music.
blues: The new migrants constituted a new market for the music industry.
blues: The style also was closely related to ragtime, which developed at about the same time, though the blues better preserved "the original melodic patterns of African music".
blues: This does not always mean the music is religious.
blues: Early blues at the turn of the 20th century was not governed by a single standardized structure.
blues: In the UK, bands emulated U.S.
blues: A record of blues music as it existed before 1920 can also be found in the recordings of artists such as Lead Belly and Henry Thomas.
blues: Memphis Minnie was famous for her virtuoso guitar style.
blues: Chicago blues also influenced Louisiana's zydeco music, with Clifton Chenier using blues accents.
blues: Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be older, it has been attested to in print since 1912, when Hart Wand's "Dallas Blues" became the first copyrighted blues composition.
blues: She was a free-born black woman from Pennsylvania who was working as a schoolteacher in South Carolina, instructing both slaves and freedmen, and wrote that she "came home with the blues" because she felt lonesome and pitied herself.
blues: Reviewers have noted that Sinners uses supernatural elements to explore themes of identity, resilience, and connection across cultures.
blues: Additionally, ethnomusicologist John Storm Roberts has argued that "The parallels between African savanna-belt string-playing  and the techniques of many blues guitarists are remarkable.
blues: Escaping the Delta: Robert Johnson and the Invention of the Blues.
blues: Black and white musicians shared the same repertoire and thought of themselves as "songsters" rather than blues musicians.
blues: The Original Blues: The Emergence of the Blues in African-American Vaudeville, 1889–1926.
blues: Carr accompanied himself on the piano with Scrapper Blackwell on guitar, a format that continued well into the 1950s with artists such as Charles Brown and even Nat "King" Cole.
blues: Gordon's successor at the library was John Lomax.
blues: David Evans likewise notes that early blues allowed considerable structural variation before becoming more standardized through commercial recording.
blues: The devil's connection to the blues has faded from popular memory since then for a number of reasons, other than in the narrow sense of Robert Johnson selling his soul to the devil at the crossroads.
blues: In 1827, it was in the sense of a sad state of mind that John James Audubon wrote to his wife that he "had the blues".
blues: As time went on, the phrase lost the reference to devils and came to mean a state of agitation or depression.
blues: In the late 1950s, a new blues style emerged on Chicago's West Side pioneered by Magic Sam, Buddy Guy, and Otis Rush on Cobra Records.
blues: King introduced a sophisticated style of guitar soloing based on fluid string bending and shimmering vibrato that influenced many later electric blues guitarists.
blues: The lyrical content became slightly simpler in postwar blues, which tended to focus on relationship woes or sexual worries.
blues: In Dates, Jannette L.; Barlow, William (eds.).
blues: Scholars like Alan Lomax and Amiri Baraka note that this honest emotional expression helped shape the sound and feeling of the blues.
blues: She attributes the origins of field holler music to African Muslim slaves who accounted for an estimated 30% of African slaves in America.
blues: Recorded blues and country music can be found as far back as the 1920s, when the record industry created the marketing categories "race music" and "hillbilly music" to sell music by blacks for blacks and by whites for whites, respectively.
blues: Early blues frequently took the form of a loose narrative.
blues: W.; Godrich, John (1970).
blues: Reverend Gary Davis and Blind Willie Johnson are examples of artists often categorized as blues musicians for their music, although their lyrics clearly belong to spirituals.
blues: Nonetheless, the recordings of some of the classic female blues singers were purchased by white buyers as well.
blues: Perry was applauded by critics as presenting the blues as not a form of entertainment, but also a form of cultural as well as emotional expression that conveys messages of love, loss and survival across generations.
blues: Handy, the "AAB" pattern was adopted to avoid the monotony of lines repeated three times.
blues: The music is a mix of original pieces and traditional blues hits, with such performers as Ruth B., Joshua Boone, and Amirah Vann, and it captures the true emotional effect of the moment.
blues: Oliver, Paul; Wright, Richard (1990).
blues: Split Image: African Americans in the Mass Media (2nd ed.).
blues: King's singing and virtuoso guitar technique earned him the eponymous title "king of the blues".
blues: The first extensive research in the field was performed by Howard W.
blues: This takes place in 1930s in the Mississippi Delta, this film reinvents the origins of the blues in a supernatural fashion during which rhythm, rituals, and myth are intertwined.
blues: The film's soundtrack mixes original Delta blues with influences from Chinese music, creating a unique sound that reflects its cultural blend.
blues: The first blues recordings from the 1920s are categorized as a traditional, rural country blues and a more polished city or urban blues.
blues: The instrumental performance and arrangements make the audience feel the cultural and historical background of the blues with its development as a way of expression that has been created by suffering and survival.
blues: Alan Lomax's recordings of Mississippi Fred McDowell would eventually bring him wider attention on both the blues and folk circuit, with McDowell's droning style influencing North Mississippi hill country blues musicians.
blues: Prominent jazz, folk, or rock performers, such as Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Miles Davis, and Bob Dylan, have performed significant blues recordings.
blues: Other recordings that are still available were made in 1924 by Lawrence Gellert.
blues: The phrase 'blue devils' may also have been derived from a British usage of the 1600s referring to the "intense visual hallucinations that can accompany severe alcohol withdrawal".
blues: The Latin Beat.
blues: Blues is a music genre and musical form that originated among African Americans in the Deep South of the United States around the 1860s.
blues: New York: Amistad.
blues: Early country bluesmen such as Skip James, Charley Patton, and Georgia Tom Dorsey played country and urban blues and had influences from spiritual singing.
blues: By combing both cultures into the film it produces a cultural conversation between two different worlds where East and West fuse together, not in words but in music that breaks racial, historic and spiritual barriers.
blues: Hart Wand's "Dallas Blues" was published in 1912; W.C.
blues: Rockin' Out: Popular Music in the USA.
blues: Other blues artists, such as John Lee Hooker, had influences not directly related to the Chicago style.
blues: Rockabillies were also said to be 12-bar blues played with a bluegrass beat.
blues: ISBN 978-0-697-12516-3.
blues: ISBN 978-1-496-81002-1.
blues: Dallas-born T-Bone Walker, who is often associated with the California blues style, performed a successful transition from the early urban blues à la Lonnie Johnson and Leroy Carr to the jump blues style and dominated the blues-jazz scene at Los Angeles during the 1940s.
blues: The chords are commonly played as dominant sevenths, contributing to the genre's characteristic harmonic color.
blues: Komara, Edward M.
blues: Hill's Down Home Blues (1982) and Little Milton's The Blues is Alright (1984).
blues: His style of music was not exactly rockabilly but it has been often called real rock and roll (this is a label he shares with several African-American rock and roll performers).
blues: Welding, Peter; Brown, Toby, eds.
blues: Howard University Press.
blues: Retrieved August 24, 2005.
blues: Dixon, Robert M.
blues: Keil, Charles (1991) [1966].
blues: Howlin' Wolf, Muddy Waters, Willie Dixon and Jimmy Reed were all born in Mississippi and moved to Chicago during the Great Migration.
blues: Geils Band, Ry Cooder, and the Allman Brothers Band.
blues: 1998 brought a sequel, Blues Brothers 2000 that, while not holding as great a critical and financial success, featured a much larger number of blues artists, such as B.B.
blues: However, the most common structure of blues lyrics today was established in the first few decades of the 20th century, known as the "AAB" pattern.
blues: Handy, who first heard the blues in Tutwiler, Mississippi, in 1903.
blues: Blues has since evolved from unaccompanied vocal music and oral traditions of slaves into a wide variety of styles and subgenres.
blues: The little-recorded Robert Johnson combined elements of urban and rural blues.
blues: SBN 289-79829-9.
blues: The blues also used the idea of sin to question strict social rules.
blues: Oliver, Paul (1965).
blues: the savanna hinterland, from Senegambia through Mali, Burkina Faso, Northern Ghana, Niger, and northern Nigeria".
blues: It was only in the first decades of the 20th century that the most common current structure became standard: the AAB pattern, consisting of a line sung over the four first bars, its repetition over the next four, and then a longer concluding line over the last bars.
blues: Themes and Emotional Expression
Many blues songs use the idea of sin and redemption to show the emotional world of the singer.
blues: All these sources show the existence of many different structures distinct from twelve-, eight-, or sixteen-bar.
blues: OCLC 1034666573.
blues: Through this, Sinners presents the blues not simply as a form of artistic expression born out if trails rather than a spiritual gateway that connects people, ancestry and the spirit world.
blues: He asked several famous directors, such as Clint Eastwood and Wim Wenders, to participate in a series of documentary films for PBS called The Blues.
blues: Chroniclers began to report about blues music at the dawn of the 20th century.
blues: Though not directly influenced by boogie-woogie, his "groovy" style is sometimes called "guitar boogie".
blues: A study of the devil's role in the blues was published in 2017, called Beyond the Crossroads: The Devil & The Blues Tradition.
blues: In 2003, Martin Scorsese made significant efforts to promote the blues to a larger audience.
blues: Blues performers explored a range of musical genres, for example, from the broad array of nominees of the yearly Blues Music Awards (previously named W.C.
blues: Spirituals or religious chants in the African-American community are much better documented than the "low-down" blues.
blues: The early African-American rock musicians retained the sexual themes and innuendos of blues music: "Got a gal named Sue, knows just what to do" ("Tutti Frutti", Little Richard) or "See the girl with the red dress on, She can do the Birdland all night long" ("What'd I Say", Ray Charles).
blues: Another development in this period was big band blues.
blues: Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
blues: Blues shuffles or walking bass reinforce the trance-like rhythm and form a repetitive effect known as the groove.
blues: Some labels are famous for rediscovering and remastering blues rarities, including Arhoolie Records, Smithsonian Folkways Recordings (heir of Folkways Records), and Yazoo Records (Shanachie Records).
blues: They are now lost.
blues: Their style is characterized by the use of electric guitar, sometimes slide guitar, harmonica, and a rhythm section of bass and drums.
blues: Jimmie Rodgers, Moon Mullican, Bob Wills, Bill Monroe, and Hank Williams have all described themselves as blues singers and their music has a blues feel that is different, at first glance at least, from the later country-pop of artists like Eddy Arnold.
blues: society, including academic circles, and partly because of the low rate of literacy among rural African Americans at the time.
blues: As the recording industry grew, country blues performers like Bo Carter, Jimmie Rodgers, Blind Lemon Jefferson, Lonnie Johnson, Tampa Red, and Blind Blake became more popular in the African-American community.
blues: ISBN 0-525-93375-1.
blues: Recording the Blues.
blues: These recordings were typically labeled "race records" to distinguish them from records sold to white audiences.
blues: The repertoires of many seminal blues artists, such as Charley Patton and Skip James, included religious songs or spirituals.
blues: Boogie-woogie was pioneered by the Chicago-based Jimmy Yancey and the Boogie-Woogie Trio (Albert Ammons, Pete Johnson and Meade Lux Lewis).
blues: Blues guitarist and vocalist Keb' Mo' performed his blues rendition of "America, the Beautiful" in 2006 to close out the final season of the television series The West Wing.
blues: Oliver, Paul (1998).
blues: ISBN 978-0-312-11573-9.
blues: ISBN 978-0-521-37793-5.
blues: The film drew many of the biggest living influencers of the rhythm and blues genre together, such as Ray Charles, James Brown, Cab Calloway, Aretha Franklin, and John Lee Hooker.
blues: Blues historians and historians of African American music such as Paul Oliver and Samuel Charters have suggested that the essential elements of the blues originated in the Sahel region of West Africa, brought over by Africans via the slave trade.
blues: The Billboard Blues Album chart provides an overview of current blues hits.
blues: These narratives often detailed the specific harsh realities of the Deep South, including the difficulties of sharecropping and the economic devastation caused by the boll weevil.
blues: One blues rock performer, Jimi Hendrix, was a rarity in his field at the time: a black man who played psychedelic rock.
blues: ISBN 978-0-7864-0606-7.
blues: By combining folklore, history, and myth, the story shows how music can link people to each other, their ancestors, and the spirit world.
blues: ISBN 978-0-563-16012-0.
blues: After WWII, blues had a substantial influence on jazz.
blues: Oxford University Press.
blues: London: BBC.
blues: An early use of the term in this sense is in George Colman's one-act farce Blue Devils (1798).
blues: John blends classic rhythm and blues with blues styles.
blues: In the Mississippi Delta, where poverty and discrimination were part of daily life, the theme of sin was a way for musicians to talk about broken relationships, unfair treatment, and survival.
blues: New York: Penguin Group.
blues: The blues scale is ubiquitous in modern popular music and informs many modal frames, especially the ladder of thirds used in rock music (for example, in "A Hard Day's Night").
blues: As well, festivals such as the Newport Folk Festival brought traditional blues to a new audience, which helped to revive interest in prewar acoustic blues and performers such as Son House, Mississippi John Hurt, Skip James, and Reverend Gary Davis.
blues: ISBN 978-0-415-92699-7.
blues: These traditions, which were sometimes permitted by plantation owners who feared drums as tool of rebellion, thus evolved into the blues.
blues: This marketing strategy reinforced trends in urban blues music such as the use of electric instruments and amplification and the generalization of the blues beat, the blues shuffle, which became ubiquitous in rhythm and blues (R&B).
blues: The Music of Black Americans.
blues: Expressive guitar solos were a key feature of this music.
blues: Instead of judging people, the music gave performers a way to speak honestly about their lives.
blues: In the 1940s, the jump blues style developed.
blues: Lyrical themes that frequently appeared in prewar blues, such as economic depression, farming, devils, gambling, magic, floods and drought, were less common in postwar blues.
blues: Often termed "soul blues" or "Southern soul", the music at the heart of this movement was given new life by the unexpected success of two particular recordings on the Jackson-based Malaco label: Z.
blues: A defining feature of blues rhythm is the backbeat, with accents on the second and fourth beats reinforcing the music's characteristic swing and drive.
blues: This approach has been praised for bringing a fresh perspective to both horror and musical storytelling.
blues: Melodic lines typically draw on the minor pentatonic while highlighting blue notes, creating expressive tension through the blending of major and minor elements.
blues: Classic female urban and vaudeville blues singers were popular in the 1920s, among them "the big three"—Gertrude "Ma" Rainey, Bessie Smith, and Lucille Bogan.
blues: John Lee Hooker's blues is more "personal", based on Hooker's deep rough voice accompanied by a single electric guitar.
blues: During the blues revival of the 1960s and 1970s, acoustic blues artist Taj Mahal and Texas bluesman Lightnin' Hopkins wrote and performed music that figured prominently in the critically acclaimed film Sounder (1972).
blues: However, there are some characteristics that were present long before the creation of the modern blues.
blues: Early Jazz: Its Roots and Musical Development.
blues: The Story of the Blues (new ed.).
blues: After Phillips discovered Elvis Presley in 1954, the Sun label turned to the rapidly expanding white audience and started recording mostly rock 'n' roll.
blues: Cambridge University Press.
blues: Lenoir, but the saxophone was used as a backing instrument for rhythmic support more than as a lead instrument.
blues: The smooth Louisiana style of Professor Longhair and, more recently, Dr.
blues: In the US, from the 1970s, female singers Bonnie Raitt and Phoebe Snow performed blues.
blues: Handy Awards) or of the Grammy Awards for Best Contemporary and Traditional Blues Album.
blues: According to W.C.
