bmx: It was their sons' interest, and the lack of BMX organizations in the East, which prompted Esser to start the NBL in Florida.
bmx: BMX, an abbreviation for bicycle motocross or bike motocross, is a cycle sport performed on BMX bikes, either in competitive BMX racing or freestyle BMX, or else in general street or off-road recreation.
bmx: Previously a small niche area, BMX exploded at this time into the dominant bicycle for the younger rider, with older teenagers and even adults becoming known names through publications like BMX Bi-Weekly, featuring big names like Tim March and Andy Ruffell.
bmx: Since January 1993, BMX has been integrated into the Union Cycliste Internationale.
bmx: The 1983 cult movie BMX Bandits helped establish the sport further worldwide.
bmx: Because BMX exploded into Britain's streets so suddenly, it was perhaps inevitable that it would implode with similar speed, when the children who rode the bikes left school and went to work.
bmx: Esser founded the National Bicycle League as a non-profit bicycle motocross sanctioning organization.
bmx: Before they set up the NBL, Esser and his wife, Mary, sanctioned motorcycle races with the American Motocross Association (AMA).
bmx: The shift to freestyle from racing came in 1985 with popular styling moving from chrome frames and contrasting components in black blue or red being the norm, to brightly coloured bikes in one colour only, including their magnesium alloy wheels and even matching tyres.
bmx: The motorcycle racing documentary On Any Sunday (1971) is generally credited with inspiring the movement nationally in the United States; its opening scene shows kids riding their Sting-Rays off-road.
bmx: Multiple world and Olympic champion track sprinter Chris Hoy also began as a BMX rider.
bmx: BMX racing was a phenomenon by the mid-1970s.
bmx: Many talented BMX riders go on to other cycling sports like downhill, including Australian Olympian Jared Graves, Eric Carter and youth BMX racer Aaron Gwin.
bmx: In 2003, the International Olympic Committee made BMX a medal Olympic sport for the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing, China, and Māris Štrombergs (male, for Latvia) and Anne-Caroline Chausson (female, for France) became the first Olympic champions.
bmx: By 1986–1987, sales in the UK had dropped off dramatically, with the new all-terrain bike or mountain bike (another trend from mid-1970s California) taking off, soon to become the most popular adult bicycle.
bmx: Their two sons, Greg and Brian, raced motorcycles, but also enjoyed riding and racing BMX with their friends.
bmx: Children were racing standard road bikes off-road around purpose-built tracks in California.
bmx: By the middle of that decade, the sport achieved critical mass, and manufacturers began creating bicycles designed especially for the sport.
bmx: By 1977, the American Bicycle Association (ABA) was organized as a national sanctioning body for the growing sport.
bmx: Freestyle BMX is now one of the staple events at the annual Summer X Games Extreme Sports competition and the Etnies Backyard Jam, held primarily on the East and West coasts of the United States.
bmx: In 1980, the first BMX track in the UK was founded in Landseer Park, Ipswich, by the Ipswich BMX Club, which still provides coaching and races on a regular basis.
bmx: The size and availability of the Schwinn Sting-Ray and other wheelie bikes made them the natural bike of choice for these races, since they were easily customized for better handling and performance.
bmx: The popularity of the sport has increased due to its relative ease and availability of places to ride and do tricks.
