bowling: A strike occurs when the bowler knocks down all 10 pins on the first roll; if this occurs in any of the first nine frames, the frame ends immediately without a second roll being taken.
bowling: In 1980, urethane-shell bowling balls were introduced by Ebonite.
bowling: presidential residence, the White House, as a birthday gift for then-President Harry S.
bowling: During the 15th–17th centuries, lawn bowling spread from Germany into Austria, Switzerland, and the Low Countries, with playing surfaces made of cinders or baked clay.
bowling: "He was 'very fond of bowling' " and "Though 'a very awkward bowler,' he nevertheless 'played the game with great zest and spirit, solely for exercise and amusement' ".
bowling: Bowling pins are constructed by gluing blocks of rock maple wood into the approximate shape, and then turning on a lathe.
bowling: "Playing Rules 2024-2025" (PDF).
bowling: Spares & Strikes: History of Candlepin Bowling in New Brunswick (1996) in Canada
Schmidt, Doug.
bowling: By the late 1830s, New York's Knickerbocker Hotel housed a bowling alley with three lanes.
bowling: In 1964, Marion Ladewig, a nine-time winner of the Bowling Writers Association of America's Female Bowler of the Year Award, became the first Superior Performance inductee into the WIBC Hall of Fame.
bowling: bowling industry boom hit a brick wall in 1963.
bowling: In response, the National Bowling League (NBL) was founded to compete with the PBA.
bowling: "Psychological and psychomotor skills associated with prowess at ten-pin bowling." Journal of sports sciences 14.3 (1996): 255-268.
bowling: Duckpin bowling: similar to tenpin, but with shorter pins and bowled with a smaller handheld ball.
bowling: In 1942, the Bowling Proprietors Association of America (BPAA) held its first BPAA All-Star tournament.
bowling: On 2 February 1997, Jeremy Sonnenfeld (born 1975) bowled the first officially sanctioned 900 series of three straight perfect 300 games at Sun Valley Lanes in Lincoln, Nebraska, becoming known as "Mr.
bowling: It attracted name players such as Billy Welu and Buzz Fazio, but failed to sign top star Don Carter.
bowling: This decline in a sport focusing on skill and technique is considerably smaller than that of events dominated by muscular strength, cardiovascular endurance or agility—which are known to decrease about 10% per decade.
bowling: The size and spacing of the finger holes on non-customized balls are generally smaller on lighter balls to accommodate smaller hands.
bowling: The historical game skittles is the forerunner of modern pin bowling.
bowling: Spalding's Athletic Library.
bowling: String pinsetters are less expensive and easier to maintain, motivating bowling centers to phase them in.
bowling: In August 1939, the National Negro Bowling Association was founded in Detroit, Michigan, dropping Negro from the title in 1944 and opening membership to all races.
bowling: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
bowling: The oldest surviving bowling lanes in the United States were built in 1846 as part of Roseland Cottage, the summer estate of Henry Chandler Bowen (1831–1896) in Woodstock, Connecticut.
bowling: Some of these resemble the modern-day jack used in target bowl games.
bowling: Its name changed to World Bowling in 2014 and International Bowling Federation in 2020.
bowling: In 1903, the English Bowling Association was founded by cricketer W.
bowling: On 1 July 1982, former PBA pro Glenn Allison rolled the first 900 series (three consecutive 300 games in a three-game set) to ever be submitted to the ABC for award consideration.
bowling: In 2005 the ABC merged with the Women's International Bowling Congress (WIBC) et al.
bowling: Floretta "Doty" McCutcheon (1888–1967) defeated Smith in an exhibition match, founding a school that taught 500,000 women how to bowl.
bowling: A strike is achieved when all the pins are knocked down on the first roll, and a spare is achieved if all remaining pins are knocked over on a second roll.
bowling: Then, the now-oldest surviving bowling alley for the tenpin sport which was opened in 1908 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the basement of the Holler House tavern, containing the oldest sanctioned lanes in the United States.
bowling: The PBA had opened up its membership to women following the 2003 demise of the PWBA.
bowling: Tenpin balls are about 8.59 inches (21.8 cm) in diameter, typically have three holes, and weigh from 6 to 16 lb (2.7 to 7.3 kg).
bowling: The Pete) was first held in Chicago, Illinois, becoming bowling's richest tournament of the day.
bowling: On 16 December 1979, Willie Willis won the Brunswick National Resident Pro Tournament in Charlotte, North Carolina, becoming the first African-American bowling champion in the PBA in a non-touring event.
bowling: The USBC indicated that, effective 1 August 2023, it is certifying string pinsetters and string pin bowling as an independent category of equipment and competition separate from conventional free-fall pinsetters.
bowling: In 1982, American expressionist painter LeRoy Neiman produced a famous painting of PBA star Earl Anthony's million dollar strike.
bowling: Bowling balls vary, depending on the type of bowling.
bowling: Historical dictionary of bowling (Rowman & Littlefield, 2014) online.
bowling: In the 1880s, Brunswick Corporation (founded 1845) of Chicago, Illinois, maker of billiard tables began making bowling balls, pins, and wooden lanes to sell to taverns installing bowling alleys.
bowling: In 1962, the first PBA Tournament of Champions was held; it became an annual event in 1965, and was sponsored by Firestone Tire from 1965 through 1993.
bowling: They Came to Bowl: How Milwaukee Became America's Tenpin Capital (Wisconsin Historical Society Press, 2007)
Thomas, Patrick R., Paul J.
bowling: All about Bowls: The History, Construction and Maintenance of Bowling Greens (STRI, 2008) online.
bowling: Candlepin bowling: tallest pins (at 40 cm or 16 in), thin with matching ends, bowled with the smallest and lightest (at 1.1 kg or 2.4 lb) handheld ball of any bowling sport, and the only form with no fallen pins removed during a frame.
bowling: In 1960, the Professional Women's Bowling Association (PWBA) was founded as the first professional women's bowling association; in 2003 it then went defunct.
bowling: In 1913, the monthly Bowlers Journal was founded in Chicago, Illinois, continuing to publish to the present day.
bowling: Hurley, Andrew.
bowling: USBC lab data indicated strike percentage on string pin bowling is 7.1% lower, causing the USBC to plan additional testing to determine whether a scoring conversion should be created between the categories.
bowling: Also, the American Wheelchair Bowling Association (AWBA) was founded in Louisville, Kentucky, by Richard F.
bowling: 1965) online
Grasso, John, and Eric R.
bowling: Candlepin Bowling was invented in 1880 by a man named Justin White.
bowling: Remnants of bowling balls were found among artifacts in ancient Egypt going back to the Egyptian protodynastic period in 3200 BCE.
bowling: In contrast, traditional plastic balls are suitable for straighter shots.
bowling: The one-lane bowling alley underwent major renovations in 1994, and again in 2019.
bowling: Wet or dirty soles may not slide properly and could damage the approach surface.
bowling: In any given frame, the bowler scores one point for every pin knocked down; a spare or strike awards one extra point for each pin knocked down on the next one or two rolls, respectively.
bowling: Also in 1903, D.
bowling: In 1979, the International Olympic Committee recognized it as the official world governing body for bowling.
bowling: The lanes were moved to the Old Executive Office Building (now the Eisenhower Executive Office Building) in 1955, for the benefit of White House employees; its old location became a mimeograph room and, in 1961, the Situation Room.
bowling: A History of Recreation: America Learns to Play (2nd ed.
bowling: Miller, Mark.
bowling: Verfurth, Emily.
bowling: It featured the debut of Team USA, which won seven of the eight gold medals.
bowling: In 1819, New York writer Washington Irving made the first mention of ninepin bowling in American literature in his story "Rip Van Winkle".
bowling: On 27 January 1967, the Japan Professional Bowling Association (JPBA) was founded in Tokyo, Japan.
bowling: In 1964, "Mr.
bowling: Bowling" Don Carter became the first athlete to sign a $1 million endorsement contract: a multi-year deal with Ebonite International.
bowling: In 1952, the Fédération Internationale des Quilleurs (FIQ) was founded in Hamburg, West Germany, to coordinate international amateur competition in nine-pin and tenpin bowling.
bowling: Then, in 1864, Glasgow cotton merchant William Wallace Mitchell (1803–1884) published Manual of Bowls Playing, which became a standard reference for lawn bowling in Scotland.
bowling: On 1 January 2008, it merged with the English Women's Bowling Association to become Bowls England.
bowling: It reached 30,000 members in 2007.
bowling: In 1909, the first tenpin bowling alley in Europe was installed in Sweden, but the game failed to catch on in the rest of Europe until after World War II.
bowling: In 1971, the BPAA All-Star tournament was renamed the BPAA U.S.
bowling: Duckpins are shorter and squatter than standard tenpins and candlepins are the tallest at 15+3⁄4 in (40 cm), but only 2+15⁄16 in (7.5 cm) wide and 2 lb 8 oz (1.1 kg) in weight.
bowling: In 1995, the first Best Bowler ESPY Award was presented.
bowling: caused bowling alleys to disassociate from saloons, turning bowling into a family game and encouraging women bowlers.
bowling: Pritchard, Tony T., and Starla J.
bowling: In 2000, it was purchased by former executives of Microsoft, who moved the PBA headquarters to Seattle, Washington.
bowling: In the Roman Empire, a similar game evolved between Roman legionaries entailing the tossing of stone objects as close as possible to other stone objects, which eventually evolved into Italian bocce, or outdoor bowling.
bowling: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
bowling: A spare occurs if the bowler leaves any pins standing after the first roll, then knocks them all down on the second.
bowling: In 2015, the Professional Women's Bowling Association (PWBA) was revived after a 12-year hiatus.
bowling: Tenpin bowling is the most popular type of bowling.
bowling: On 28 January 1950, the painting Bowling Strike by George Hughes (1907–1989) appeared on the cover of the Saturday Evening Post.
bowling: Elmer Reed (1903–1983) became the first African-American to be inducted into the ABC Hall of Fame.
bowling: Later pin bowlers were sometimes called keglers.
bowling: An 1828 auction notice, also in Ipswich, explicitly mentions "ten-pin and skittle grounds".
bowling: In 1926, the International Bowling Association (IBA) was formed by the United States, Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, and Finland, holding four world championships by 1936.
bowling: The PBA later named its sportsmanship award after him.
bowling: In 1958, the Professional Bowlers Association (PBA) was founded in Akron, Ohio by 33 prominent bowlers (including Don Carter, Dick Weber, Dick Hoover, Buzz Fazio, Billy Welu, Carmen Salvino and Glenn Allison) after they listened to a presentation by sports agent Eddie Elias.
bowling: King Edward III also banned bowling as a distraction to archery practice.
bowling: A standard game of tenpin bowling consists of 10 frames, with a maximum of two rolls in each of the first nine frames and three in the tenth.
bowling: Archived (PDF) from the original on 30 January 2025.
bowling: The sole of the non-sliding shoe is generally made of rubber for traction, while the sole of the sliding shoe is made of a smooth material allowing a smooth slide into the release.
bowling: The name comes from the Greek work ikano, which means "capable" or "enable".
bowling: "Bowling History", The Historyscoper
United States Bowling Congress (USBC) (2024).
bowling: English King Henry VIII was an avid bowler.
bowling: In 2000, the Weber Cup, named after Dick Weber, was established as 10-pin bowling's equivalent to golf's Ryder Cup, with Team USA playing Team Europe in a three-day match.
bowling: He had a bowling lane built next to his home for his children, sometimes rolling a ball himself.
bowling: Bowling (Bloomsbury, 2013) online.
bowling: This occurred on October 4, during an Eastern All-Star league session in Newark, New Jersey.
bowling: There is one synthetic tenpin model approved by the USBC.
bowling: Putnam, Robert D.
bowling: On 24 January 2010, Kelly Kulick (born 1977) became the first woman to win the PBA Tournament of Champions and the first woman to win a PBA national tour event.
bowling: to become the United States Bowling Congress (USBC).
bowling: Bowling is played by 120 million people in more than 90 countries, including 70 million people in the United States alone.
bowling: In 1905, Rubber Duckpin bowling was invented by Willam Wuerthele of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, catching on in Quebec, Canada.
bowling: Rules for target bowls evolved separately in each of the other countries that adopted the predominantly British game.
bowling: 2012) online
bowling: In 1998, it was taken over by AMF.
bowling: It arranges 10 pins in a triangle at the end of a bowling lane.
bowling: Also, in 1455, lawn bowling lanes in London were first roofed over, turning bowling into an all-weather game.
bowling: On 26 May 1961 the British Tenpin Bowling Association (BTBA) was formed.
bowling: In 1905, the International Bowling Board was formed; its constitution adopted the laws of the Scottish Bowling Association, with variations allowed at the individual country level.
bowling: In September 1907, the Victorian Ladies' Bowling Association was founded in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, becoming the world's first women's lawn bowling association.
bowling: In Germany, they were called kegelbahns and were often attached to taverns and guest houses.
bowling: On 28 November 1960, the first PBA Championship in Memphis, Tennessee was won by Don Carter.
bowling: Perris, Jeff.
bowling: Because of the scarcity of suitable wood, bowling pins can be made from approved synthetics.
bowling: On 22 November 1986, George Branham III (born 1962) became the first African-American to win a PBA national touring event: the Brunswick Memorial World Open in Chicago, Illinois.
bowling: When hit by the ball, synthetic pins usually sound different from wooden pins.
bowling: Depending on the particular game, players roll or throw a ball in an attempt to land it closest to a mark or target ball within the arena.
bowling: On 2 August 1991, in Havana, Cuba, tenpin bowling became an international medal-level sport for the first time at the 1991 Pan American Games, and continues to this day.
bowling: military bases during World War II.
bowling: It was renamed the PBA World Championship in 2002, and now awards the Earl Anthony Trophy to the winner.
bowling: In 1995, the National Bowling Stadium opened in Reno, Nevada, becoming known as the Taj Mahal of Tenpins.
bowling: Their first General Secretary was Maurice Glazer.
bowling: Schlinker, and Ray Over.
bowling: The IKAN Bowler, a device designed by a quadriplegic engineer named Bill Miller, attaches to a wheelchair and allows the user to control the speed, direction, and timing of the tenpin bowling ball's release.
bowling: After the lathe shapes the pin, it is coated with a plastic material, painted, and covered with a glossy finish.
bowling: "Bowling" (PDF).
bowling: On 27 January 1962, ABC Television aired its first Saturday afternoon broadcast of a PBA Tour event, the Empire State Open held at Redwood Lanes in Albany, New York, beginning a partnership between ABC and the PBA that lasted through 1997.
bowling: In 1954, the first FIQ World Bowling Championships were held in Helsinki, Finland.
bowling: In 1982, the 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane, Australia, added women's bowls to the events.
bowling: Protestant Reformation founder Martin Luther set the number of pins (which varied from 3 to 17) at nine.
bowling: It held the first Australian women's national lawn bowling championship in Sydney in 1949, which was won by Mrs.
bowling: In the 1992–1993 season, the ABC introduced resin bowling balls, causing perfect 300 scores to increase by 20%.
bowling: Presidents ====
bowling: On 18 April 1948, the Professional Women Bowling Writers (PWBW) was founded in Dallas, Texas, admitting men in 1975.
bowling: Duckpin and candlepin balls fit in the palm, and have no holes.
bowling: Most references to bowling are to pin bowling, specifically tenpin bowling, played in the United Kingdom and Commonwealth countries.
bowling: In 2004, the Brunswick Euro Challenge was founded for amateur and pro 10-pin bowling players from Europe, Asia, and the U.S.
bowling: It uses, as the name suggests, 9 pins instead of 10 pins.
bowling: A circa 1810 painting of Ipswich, England shows a man bowling with a triangular formation of ten pins, before that variant of the sport is believed to have appeared in the United States.
bowling: On 1 January 2007, it merged with the Bowling Writers Association of America.
bowling: The PBA eventually reached about 4,300 members in 14 countries worldwide.
bowling: Dutchmen in the late 17th century liked to bowl at the Old King's Arms Tavern near modern-day 2nd and Broadway in New York City.
bowling: Bowling pins are the target of the bowling ball in pin bowling variations.
bowling: A study of professional and master tenpin bowlers found that average scores declined less than 10% from age 20 to age 70.
bowling: zoomed from 65,000 in 1957 to 160,000 in 1962, the U.S.
bowling: In 1733, Bowling Green in New York City was built on the site of a Dutch cattle market and parade ground, becoming the city's oldest public park to survive to modern times.
bowling: In 1952, American Machine and Foundry (AMF) of Brooklyn, New York, began marketing automatic Pinsetter machines.
bowling: The size and shape of pins vary but are generally cylindrical and widen where the ball strikes the pin.
bowling: Curling may be considered target bowling but on ice.
bowling: In 1969, friends of then-President Richard Nixon, who was said to be an avid bowler, had a one-lane alley built in an underground space below the building's North Portico.
bowling: Lawn bowls, bocce, carpet bowls, pétanque, and boules can have both indoor and outdoor varieties.
bowling: In 1953, Grazio Castellano of Brooklyn, New York, was the first to roll a perfect game on live television.
bowling: The most common variation of pin bowling is tenpin; other variations include candlepin, duckpin, nine-pin (kegel), and five-pin.
bowling: Bowling can also refer to target bowling, such as lawn bowls.
bowling: Bowling is a target sport and recreational activity in which a player rolls a ball toward pins (in pin bowling) or another target (in target bowling).
bowling: Balls were made using the husks of grains, covered in a material such as leather, and bound with string.
bowling: In the early 1890s, Duckpin bowling was invented in Boston, Massachusetts; from then it spread to Baltimore, Maryland in about 1899.
bowling: On 21 March 1934, the National Bowling Writers Association was founded in Peoria, Illinois, by four bowling journalists; it changed its name in 1953 to the Bowling Writers Association of America.
bowling: In 1975, Earl Anthony became the first PBA member with $100,000 yearly earnings, and the first to reach $1,000,000 total earnings in 1982.
bowling: House of Representatives (1847–1849), he lived near a bowling alley.
bowling: Bowling Alone: the Collapse and Revival of American Community (Simon & Schuster, 2000)
Randall, Carol.
bowling: Joe Thum—who would become known as the "father of modern bowling"—began opening tenpin bowling alleys including at 401 Greenwich Street in the Tribeca West Historic District and strove to elevate the sport's image to compete with upper-class diversions such as theaters and opera houses.
bowling: Prohibition in the U.S.
bowling: In Germany in the third or fourth century AD, a religious ritual involved a believed cleansing of oneself of sin by rolling a rock into a club (kegel) representing the heathen.
bowling: The Saturday afternoon bowling telecasts garnered very good ratings through the early 1980s, until the cable television-fueled explosion of sports viewing choices caused ratings to decline.
bowling: "Bowling for a lifetime using sport education." Journal of Physical Education, Recreation & Dance 79.3 (2008): 17-23.
bowling: The earliest known forms of bowling date back to ancient Egypt, with wall drawings depicting bowling being found in a royal Egyptian tomb dated to 3200 BCE and miniature pins and balls in an Egyptian child's grave about 3200 BCE.
bowling: In 1993 women were allowed to join the ABC.
bowling: "Bowling together?
bowling: In 1980, he became the first African-American in the Firestone Tournament of Champions, placing 13th.
bowling: On 18 September 1988, the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, featured tenpin bowling as a demonstration sport.
bowling: Bowling shoes can be bought, and may be rented from bowling centers.
bowling: The ABC, however, refused to certify the score, citing non-complying lane conditions.
bowling: Berlin and Cologne passed laws in 1325 that limited bets on lawn bowling to five shillings.
bowling: Meanwhile, tenpin bowling caught on in Great Britain after hundreds of bowling lanes were installed on U.S.
bowling: In 1982, the Young American Bowling Alliance was formed from a merger of the American Junior Bowling Congress, the Youth Bowling Association, and the collegiate divisions of the ABC and WIBC.
bowling: Lanes have a wood or synthetic surface with protective lubricating oil applied in different oil patterns that affect ball motion.
bowling: One year later, Liz Johnson became the first woman to make the televised final round of a PBA Tour event.
bowling: In 1978, National Negro Bowling Association pioneer J.
bowling: The lanes, now part of Historic New England's Roseland Cottage House Museum contain Gothic Revival architectural elements in keeping with the style of the entire estate.
bowling: Professional bowlers made salaries rivaling those of baseball, football, and hockey players during this time; this ended in the late 1970s.
bowling: Currently there are synthetic pins sanctioned for play in five-pin, duckpin, and candlepin.
bowling: The WIBC followed suit the following year.
bowling: In 1998, the World Tenpin Masters 10-pin bowling tournament was established.
bowling: In 1951, the first ABC Masters tournament was held, becoming one of the four majors by 2000.
bowling: The Complete Guide to Bowling Principles: The Encyclopedia of Principles (Tempe Publishers, 1982)
Dulles, Foster Rhea.
bowling: Between 3 and 10 November 1963, the Fifth FIQ World Bowling Championships in Mexico City, Mexico were attended by 132 men and 45 women (first time) from 19 nations.
bowling: Five-pin bowling: pins are taller than duckpins and shorter than tenpins, between duckpins and candlepins in diameter with a rubber girdle, bowled with a handheld ball, mostly found in Canada.
bowling: What is thought to be a child's game involving porphyry (stone) balls, a miniature trilithon, and nine breccia-veined alabaster vase-shaped figures—thought to resemble the more modern game of skittles—was found in Naqada, Egypt, in 1895.
bowling: (December 1892).
bowling: The first ABC champion (1906–1921) was Jimmy Smith (1885–1948).
bowling: In 1947, the Australian Women's Bowling Council was founded.
bowling: In 1848, the Scottish Bowling Association for lawn bowling was founded in Scotland by 200 clubs; it was dissolved then refounded later in 1892.
bowling: In 1511, he banned bowling for the lower classes and imposed a levy on private lanes to limit them to the wealthy.
bowling: Other balls made of porcelain have also been found, indicating that these were rolled along the ground rather than thrown due to their size and weight.
bowling: This eliminated the need for pinboys and caused bowling to rocket in popularity, making the 1950s the Decade of the Bowler.
bowling: The highest possible score for a single game is 300, achieved by rolling 12 consecutive strikes (a "perfect game").
bowling: "He took victory and defeat 'with like good nature and humor, and left the alley at the conclusion of the game without a sorrow or disappointment' ".
bowling: In 2013, the PBA League was founded, composed of eight permanent five-person teams, with an annual draft.
bowling: In 1299, the oldest-surviving known bowling green for target style bowling was built: Master's Close (now the Old Bowling Green of the Southampton Bowling Club) in Southampton, England, which is still in use.
bowling: Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 March 2020.
bowling: On 28 June 1963, the first British-made tenpin was made by H Massil and sons who received permit no.1 from the British Tenpin Bowling Association (BTBA).
bowling: Open, and officially became one of the PBA's major tournaments.
bowling: Strikes, spares, and gutter balls: A history of Women's bowling in twentieth century American.
bowling: Peifer of Chicago, Illinois, invented a handicap method for bowling.
bowling: In the tenth frame, the bowler gets one extra roll for making a spare, or two for a strike.
bowling: Bowling games of different forms are also noted by Herodotus as an invention of the Lydians in Asia Minor.
bowling: It commonly referred to as just bowling.
bowling: On 2 October 1921, the annual Petersen Open Bowling Tournament (a.k.a.
bowling: The ABC initially used bowling balls made of Lignum vitae hardwood from the Caribbean, which were eventually supplanted by the "Evertrue" rubber bowling ball, and the Brunswick "Mineralite" rubber ball, in 1905.
bowling: Cranley of Queensland.
bowling: On 31 March 2004, Missy Bellinder (born 1981) (later changing her name to Parkin) became the first female member of the PBA.
bowling: Modern resin covers (surfaces) available since the early 1990s enhance a ball's hook (curve) potential, and the shape of the balls' cores (pictured) permit fine-tuning of desired ball paths.
bowling: Tenpin bowling pins are the largest and heaviest, weighing 3 lb 6 oz (1.5 kg).
bowling: In 1948, two bowling lanes were installed in the ground floor of the West Wing of the U.S.
bowling: (PhD dissertation, Texas Tech U.
bowling: In 1927 Mrs.
bowling: Columbia Industries, founded in 1960, was the first manufacturer to successfully use polyester resin ("plastic") in bowling balls.
bowling: In 1954, Steve Nagy (1913–1966) became the first person to bowl a perfect 300 game while filmed.
bowling: In 1965, the AMF Bowling World Cup was established by the FIQ.
bowling: Practices of belonging and becoming in a London ten-pin bowling league." Sociology 54.3 (2020): 518-533.
bowling: New York: American Sports Publishing Company.
bowling: The league's failure to get a TV contract caused it to fold following its first championship in 1962.
bowling: Cambridge University Press.
bowling: This was compensated, however, by a new boom in Europe and Japan, making 10-pin bowling an international sport.
bowling: Newspaper articles and advertisements at least as early as 1820 refer to "ten pin alleys", usually in the context of a side attraction to a main business or property as distinguished from dedicated "bowling alley" establishments as presently understood.
bowling: Diners, Bowling Alleys, and Trailer Parks: Chasing the American Dream in Postwar Consumer Culture (Basic Books, 2001)
Jackson, Emma.
bowling: In late 1916, the Women's International Bowling Congress (originally the Woman's National Bowling Association) was founded in Saint Louis, Missouri, merging with the United States Bowling Congress in 2005.
bowling: In 1463, a public feast was held in Frankfurt, Germany, with a venison dinner followed by lawn bowling.
