boxing: The chin is tucked into the chest to avoid punches to the jaw which commonly cause knock-outs and is often kept slightly off-center.
boxing: Going into the final round, Taylor held a secure lead on the scorecards of two of the three judges.
boxing: Early fighting had no written rules, weight divisions, round limits, or referees.
boxing: Recently, however, eight-division world champion Manny Pacquiao skillfully used the strategy to gauge the power of welterweight titlist Miguel Cotto in November 2009.
boxing: A mouthguard is important to protect the teeth and gums from injury, and to cushion the jaw, resulting in a decreased chance of knockout.
boxing: Also it allows swift neck movements as well quick duckings and bad returning damage, usually by rising uppercuts or even rising hooks.
boxing: Despite its lack of power, the jab is the most important punch in boxing, usable not only for attack but also defense, as a good quick, stiff jab can interrupt a much more powerful punch, such as a hook or uppercut.
boxing: The forearm and elbow can be used to block uppercuts, and the glove and elbow can also be used to block hooks.
boxing: This style is so effective for counterpunching because it allows fighters to slip punches by rotating and dipping their upper body and causing blows to glance off the fighter.
boxing: In addition, the corner is responsible for stopping the fight if they feel their fighter is in grave danger of permanent injury.
boxing: A famous example of this type of match-up advantage would be George Foreman's knockout victory over Joe Frazier in their original bout "The Sunshine Showdown".
boxing: An illegal punch to the back of the head or neck is known as a rabbit punch.
boxing: Bob-and-weave — bobbing moves the head laterally and beneath an incoming punch.
boxing: The goal is to control the opponent's head by bending it down and to the side.
boxing: You've got to keep that right hand in its normal position, ready to (1) guard against the possibility of a following left hook, and (2) smash a straight right counter to your opponent's solar plexus or chin." - Jack Dempsey's Championship Boxing Explosive Punching and Aggressive Defense.
boxing: As the opponent lunges in, the boxer should throw the hook and pivot on his left foot and swing his right foot 180 degrees around.
boxing: Many fighters don't strictly use a single position, but rather adapt to the situation when choosing a certain position to protect them.
boxing: This allows the boxer to set up attacks like uppercuts and hooks, or to create angles.
boxing: Technically speaking it has been said that there is no such thing as a check hook and that it is simply a hook applied to an opponent that has lurched forward and past his opponent who simply hooks him on the way past.
boxing: There are various organization and websites, that rank boxers in both weight class and pound-for-pound manner.
boxing: The Cross can also follow a jab, creating the classic "one-two combo." When the same punch is used to counter a jab, aiming for the opponent's head it is called a "cross" or "cross-counter".
boxing: To protect the head, the boxer presses both fists against the front of the face with the forearms parallel and facing outwards.
boxing: An Australian study published in the Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport in 2022 found that efforts made to improve safety in the sport in 2011 were unsuccessful at preventing deaths of participants in the sport.
boxing: Oftentimes they place focus on training on their upper body instead of their entire body, to increase power and endurance.
boxing: Cross block — is often done with the rear arm (right for an orthodox fighter and left for a southpaw) but can also be done with the lead arm (left for an orthodox fighter and right for a southpaw).
boxing: Reverse elbow block — Crab Style fighters are unique as the low lead allows them to use the reverse elbows to block their heads.
boxing: Typically, three individuals stand in the corner besides the boxer; these are the trainer, the assistant trainer and the cutman.
boxing: There were twelve rules in all, specifying that fights should be "a fair stand-up boxing match" in a 24-foot-square or similar ring.
boxing: The first documented account of a bare-knuckle fight in England appeared in 1681 in the London Protestant Mercury, and the first English bare-knuckle champion was James Figg in 1719.
boxing: Competitors wear protective headgear and gloves with a white strip or circle across the knuckle.
boxing: Amateur boxing has a point scoring system that measures the number of clean blows landed rather than physical damage.
boxing: The earliest visual evidence of any boxing comes from Egypt and Sumer both from the third millennium BC.
boxing: Old history of the development of boxing and its prevalence contribute to fusion of various types of martial arts and the emergence of new ones that are based on them.
boxing: Still, throughout this period, some notable bare-knuckle champions developed fairly sophisticated fighting tactics.
boxing: Through the early 20th century, it was common for fights to have unlimited rounds, ending only when one fighter quit, benefiting high-energy fighters like Jack Dempsey.
boxing: Headgear is not permitted in professional bouts, and boxers are generally allowed to take much more damage before a fight is halted.
boxing: Classic long guard - This is a hybrid guard that combines the extended lead arm of the mummy guard with the rear hand in a classic guard, typically positioned at a 90-degree angle near the face.
boxing: Meaning that the now protected head of the boxer, is a closer target than the body.
boxing: These different punch types can be thrown in rapid succession to form combinations or "combos".
boxing: Prior to a bout, both boxers agree upon the weight of gloves to be used in the bout, with the understanding that lighter gloves allow heavy punchers to inflict more damage.
boxing: When using these punches in combinations they are often referred to as numbers, with the jab being the number 1, cross being 2, lead hook 3, rear hook 4, lead uppercut 5 and rear uppercut 6.
boxing: Clinching techniques can also be used to move an opponent to a position where they are unable to effectively strike from.
boxing: While the other lies low, protecting the body.
boxing: The British sportswriter Pierce Egan coined the term "the sweet science" as an epithet for prizefighting—or more fully "the sweet science of bruising"—as a description of England's bare-knuckle fight scene in the early nineteenth century.
boxing: The rules were published under the patronage of John Sholto Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry, whose name has always been associated with them.
boxing: A hook may also target the lower body and this technique is sometimes called the "rip" to distinguish it from the conventional hook to the head.
boxing: The Mahabharata describes two combatants boxing with clenched fists and fighting with kicks, finger strikes, knee strikes and headbutts during the time of King Virata.
boxing: "If, however, his right lead is thrown at you when you are out of normal position-when, for example, you have permitted your left hand to drop down in an overzealous feint to the body-you must block with your left shoulder.
boxing: With about a minute left in the round, Chávez hit Taylor squarely with several hard punches and stayed on the attack, continuing to hit Taylor with well-placed shots.
boxing: To defend against this headlock, one should walk their hips under for a straighter posture and use their legs to lift up.
boxing: The power for the cross is generated from the ground up, originating from a strong push off the ball of the rear foot.
boxing: It lacks redundant defense lines, relying heavily on hand blocks, which can delay counterpunches and make fighters vulnerable to hand traps, framing, and predictable punches.
boxing: In 1790, in Waddington, Lincolnshire, Mary Farmery and Susanna Locker both laid claim to the affections of a young man; this led Farmery to challenge Locker to a fight for the prize, which was accepted.
boxing: The fighter with the higher score at the end of the fight is ruled the winner.
boxing: These include bare-knuckle boxing, kickboxing, Muay Thai, Lethwei, savate, and sanda.
boxing: Professional boxing is forbidden in Iceland, Iran, and North Korea.
boxing: In 1997, the American Association of Professional Ringside Physicians was established to develop medical protocols, based on research and education, to prevent injuries in boxing.
boxing: They are often regarded as the best boxing strategists due to their ability to control the pace of the fight and lead their opponent, methodically wearing him down and exhibiting more skill and finesse than a brawler.
boxing: Deontay Wilder heavily favours and is otherwise known for knocking many of his opponents out with one of his right overhands.
boxing: But don't do it.
boxing: In that fight, Corrales' corner surrendered despite Corrales' steadfast refusal.
boxing: Fighting events were held in Roman amphitheatres.
boxing: Uppercut – A vertical, rising punch thrown with the rear hand.
boxing: According to Rubin, "boxing lost its appeal with the American middle class, and most of who boxes in modern America come from the streets and are street fighters".
boxing: There is no clear division between the force required to knock a person out and the force likely to kill a person.
boxing: Sway / fade — To anticipate a punch and move the upper body or head back so that it misses or has its force appreciably lessened.
boxing: A properly executed collar tie involves pressing the elbow to the chest and using the forearm to create a strong frame, preventing the opponent from escaping or generating power for their own attacks.
boxing: They also aim to intimidate their opponents because of their power, stature and ability to take a punch.
boxing: Boxing matches typically take place in a boxing ring, a raised platform surrounded by ropes attached to posts rising in each corner.
boxing: Both feet are parallel, and the right heel is off the ground.
boxing: No two fighters' styles are alike, as each is determined by that individual's physical and mental attributes.
boxing: Hitting with extremities of the body, such as kicks and punches, as an act of human aggression, has existed across the world's cultures throughout human history, being a combat system as old as wrestling.
boxing: This additional surety of foot placement gives them a stronger base of support to strike from.
boxing: In close range a slightly crouched posture can be used and usually a front foot heavy squared stance.
boxing: Brawling and wrestling tactics continued, and riots at prizefights were common occurrences.
boxing: As a result of their introduction, bouts became longer and more strategic, with greater importance placed on defensive maneuvers such as slipping, bobbing, countering, and angling.
boxing: Since boxing involves forceful, repetitive punching, precautions must be taken to prevent damage to bones in the hand.
boxing: The body is open if the guard is kept high, but most fighters who use this style bend and lean to protect the body, but while upright and unaltered the body is there to be hit.
boxing: While older boxing boots more commonly resembled those of a professional wrestler, modern boxing shoes and boots tend to be quite similar to their amateur wrestling counterparts.
boxing: There were no rounds, and boxers fought until one acknowledged defeat or could not continue.
boxing: It follows the rock paper scissors scenario – boxer beats brawler, brawler beats swarmer, and swarmer beats boxer.
boxing: You'll be tempted to use your right hand to help your left shoulder in that block.
boxing: Chávez remained relentless in his pursuit of Taylor and due to his greater punching power Chávez slowly punished Taylor.
boxing: It exposes the lead side of the body and allows opponents to gauge reach and distance easily.
boxing: This action will either force the opponent to release the grip or lift them off their feet.
boxing: Pulling — Moving the body backward to create distance and avoid punches.
boxing: Referees will stop the bout if a boxer is seriously injured, if one boxer is significantly dominating the other or if the score is severely imbalanced.
boxing: Footwork — involves moving the feet to create angles, create distance, or get out of the way of punches, including linear and circular movements.
boxing: From Egypt, boxing spread to other lands, including Greece, eastward to Mesopotamia, and northward to Rome.
boxing: The fighter positions their lead shoulder high, tucking their chin behind it.
boxing: The rear shoulder is thrust forward and finishes just touching the outside of the chin.
boxing: A measure of an ideally extended cross is that the shoulder of the striking arm, the knee of the front leg and the ball of the front foot are on the same vertical plane.
boxing: An intentional foul that causes injury that prevents a fight from continuing usually causes the boxer who committed it to be disqualified.
boxing: It is accompanied by a small, clockwise rotation of the torso and hips, while the fist rotates 90 degrees, becoming horizontal upon impact.
boxing: The right uppercut followed by a left hook is a deadly combination employing the uppercut to lift an opponent's chin into a vulnerable position, then the hook to knock the opponent out.
boxing: If a boxer is right-handed (orthodox), their left hand is the lead hand and his right hand is the rear hand.
boxing: These rules gave fighters an advantage not enjoyed by today's boxers; they allowed a fighter to drop to one knee to end the round and begin the 30-second count at any time.
boxing: This style of boxing was also used by fictional boxers Rocky Balboa and James "Clubber" Lang.
boxing: Like the jab, a half-step forward may be added.
boxing: A brawler is a fighter who generally lacks finesse and footwork in the ring, but makes up for it through sheer punching power.
boxing: It is this exclusive fight film library that will separate the Boxing Hall of Fame Las Vegas from the other halls of fame which do not have rights to any video of their sports.
boxing: Amateur boxing is part of both the Olympics and Commonwealth Games, and is a standard feature in most international games.
boxing: Coney in 1882 found that a bare-knuckle fight was an assault occasioning actual bodily harm, despite the consent of the participants.
boxing: Their hand can be placed on their upper arm, shoulder or back.
boxing: The fans who come to Canastota for the Induction Weekend are treated to a number of events, including scheduled autograph sessions, boxing exhibitions, a parade featuring past and present inductees, and the induction ceremony itself.
boxing: If the boxer uses their rear hand in a closed stance they would grab their opponents lead side.
boxing: The cutman is a cutaneous doctor responsible for keeping the boxer's face and eyes free of cuts, blood and excessive swelling.
boxing: A 2011 study of bouts from 1890 to 2011 calculated an average mortality rate of 13 participants per year for the years studied.
boxing: To beat this style, fighters like to jab their opponents shoulder causing the shoulder and arm to be in pain and to demobilize that arm.
boxing: In March 1981, neurosurgeon Fred Sonstein sought to use CT scans to track the degeneration of boxers' cognitive functions after seeing the decline of Bennie Briscoe.
boxing: They often have a higher chance than other fighting styles to score a knockout against their opponents because they focus on landing big, powerful hits, instead of smaller, faster attacks.
boxing: If successful, the attacking opponent will eventually tire, creating defensive flaws which the boxer can exploit.
boxing: However, this was considered "unmanly", and it was frequently disallowed by additional rules negotiated by the seconds of the boxers.
boxing: Generally speaking, the hands are held high to protect the head and chin and the forearms are tucked against the torso to impede body shots.
boxing: It is usually done wearing protective equipment, such as protective gloves, hand wraps, and mouthguards.
boxing: Boxing Prints Collection.
boxing: Should the referee count to ten, then the knocked-down boxer is ruled "knocked out" (whether unconscious or not) and the other boxer is ruled the winner by knockout (KO).
boxing: A belt worn over the torso represents the lower limit of punches – any boxer repeatedly landing low blows below the belt is disqualified.
boxing: For this reason, the haymaker or roundhouse is not a conventional punch, and is regarded by trainers as a mark of poor technique or desperation.
boxing: Weathering the blows that do land, the defender lures the opponent into expending energy while conserving his/her own.
boxing: Most trainers do not allow boxers to train and spar without wrist wraps and boxing gloves.
boxing: A large advantage in counter-hitting is the forward momentum of the attacker, which drives them further into your return strike.
boxing: This technique is effective because it avoids absorbing the impact from the punch directly, which can be more forceful and put you off balance, instead, it guides the punch away from the intended target.
boxing: Covering – covering up is the last opportunity to avoid an incoming strike to an unprotected face or body.
boxing: After the straight is thrown, the hand is retracted quickly and the guard position resumed.
boxing: Out-fighters need reach, hand speed, reflexes, and footwork.
boxing: For example, the swarming Joe Frazier, though easily dominated by the slugger George Foreman, was able to create many more problems for the boxer Muhammad Ali in their three fights.
boxing: Recently boxing clubs have started using something called music boxing machines to train newbies in a more musical way to gain rhythm.
boxing: This was done in part to level the playing field and give all of the athletes the same opportunities government-sponsored boxers from socialist countries and post-Soviet republics have.
boxing: This style was also used by Olympic boxer Sydney Greve and fictional boxer Apollo Creed.
boxing: They may also have a tendency to ignore combination punching in favor of continuous beat-downs with one hand and by throwing slower, more powerful single punches (such as hooks and uppercuts).
boxing: A fighter who suffers an accidental low-blow may be given up to five minutes to recover, after which they may be ruled knocked out if they are unable to continue.
boxing: The lead (left) fist is held vertically about six inches in front of the face at eye level.
boxing: Square stance – North American fighters tend to favor a more balanced stance, facing the opponent almost squarely.
boxing: The position of the lead arm (left for an orthodox fighter and right for a southpaw) is greatly varied when it rises vertically.
boxing: Striking an individual unconscious or even inflicting a concussion could result in permanent brain damage.
boxing: The essence of a swarmer is non-stop aggression.
boxing: A punch is considered a scoring punch only when the boxers connect with the white portion of the gloves.
boxing: Finally, with about 25 seconds to go, Chávez landed a hard right hand that caused Taylor to stagger forward towards a corner, forcing Chávez back ahead of him.
boxing: A number of boxing forms existed in ancient India.
boxing: This guard allows fighters to block their opponent's vision and smother jabs, particularly against Classic or Peek-a-boo guards, though it is less effective against low-hand styles like the Crab Guards.
boxing: After making contact with the target, the lead hand is retracted quickly to resume a guard position in front of the face.
boxing: Examples of this style include George Foreman, Rocky Marciano, Jack Dempsey, Riddick Bowe, Danny García, Wilfredo Gómez, Sonny Liston, John L.
boxing: This type of guard is weak against attacks from below.
boxing: A properly executed cross collar tie involves using the forearm to create a strong frame, preventing the opponent from escaping or generating power for their own attacks.
boxing: An average pair of boxing gloves resembles a bloated pair of mittens and is laced up around the wrists.
boxing: Each boxer enters into the ring from their assigned corners at the beginning of each round and must cease fighting and return to their corner at the signalled end of each round.
boxing: This is especially the case with power punches.
boxing: Straight / Cross — a powerful straight punch thrown with the rear hand.
boxing: Marvin Hagler was known for his hard "chin", punching power, body attack and the stalking of his opponents.
boxing: Since it is a defense designed for close range fighting, it is mainly used by in-fighters.
boxing: The in-fighter is generally successful in this case, due to his intensity in advancing on his opponent and his good agility, which makes him difficult to evade.
boxing: Chávez would have to knock Taylor out to claim a victory, whereas Taylor merely needed to stay away from the Mexican legend.
boxing: The Marquess of Queensberry Rules have been the general rules governing modern boxing since their publication in 1867.
boxing: Many short in-fighters use their stature to their advantage, employing a bob-and-weave defense by bending at the waist to slip underneath or to the sides of incoming punches.
boxing: On the inside, the out-fighter loses a lot of his combat effectiveness, because he cannot throw the hard punches.
boxing: Official website of the International Boxing Hall of Fame
"Boxing".
boxing: Because less emphasis was placed on the forearms and more on the gloves, the classical forearms-outwards, torso-lean-back stance of the bare-knuckle boxer was modified into a more modern stance in which the torso is tilted forward, and the hands are held closer to the face.
boxing: Depending on the fighter's stance, the footwork varies to either maintain a wide base for a quick retreat or to step in for more power and balance, though the punch often leaves the thrower exposed, requiring a defensive roll to avoid counters.
boxing: When the fight reaches the end of its final round, and both opponents are still standing, the winner is determined by the judges' scorecards.
boxing: Thus, a fighter realizing he was in trouble had an opportunity to recover.
boxing: It benefits fighters with slower reflexes by keeping hands closer for quicker blocks and parries but limits visibility and leaves the centerline exposed, requiring active defense against straight punches and uppercuts.
boxing: The International Boxing Hall of Fame (IBHOF) opened in Canastota, New York in 1989.
boxing: For example, a jab and cross combination would be referred to as a 1-2 combination.
boxing: In addition to these distinctive pieces of equipment, boxers also use sport-nonspecific training equipment to build strength, speed, agility, and stamina.
boxing: This involves planting their feet which means pushing firmly into the ground to ensure that they are in a stable stance.
boxing: Due to this reliance on weaker punches, out-fighters tend to win by point decisions rather than by knockout, though some out-fighters have notable knockout records.
boxing: Peek-a-Boo — a defensive style often used by a fighter where the hands are placed in front of the boxer's face, like in the babies' game of the same name.
boxing: This style can be incredibly difficult, especially against seasoned fighters, but winning a fight without getting hit is often worth the pay-off.
boxing: A literature review study analyses present knowledge about protecting headgear and injury prevention in boxing to determine if injury risks associated with not head guard usage increased.
boxing: Taller fighters benefit from this stance as it discourages hooks and uppercuts, while shorter fighters can adjust by raising their shoulders and tucking elbows.
boxing: The origin of the sport of boxing is unknown.
boxing: Executed by driving off the back leg and dropping the body weight into the punch, its mechanics involve a coordinated step and weight transfer similar to throwing a baseball to generate significant power.
boxing: The boxer's shorts are raised so the opponent is not allowed to hit to the groin area with intent to cause pain or injury.
boxing: However, this guard is also effective in a bladed stance and while moving or leaning backwards to block an opponent's counterpunches after a missed punch.
boxing: The jab extends from the side of the torso and typically does not pass in front of it.
boxing: Case in point, many fast fighters have their hands down and have almost exaggerated footwork, while brawlers or bully fighters tend to slowly stalk their opponents.
boxing: By establishing a physical barrier, framing can prevent punches, set up counters, manipulate an opponent's guard, or create openings for a boxer's own attacks.
boxing: 'fist-fighting'; also transliterated as pygmachía) was a well-developed sport and enjoyed consistent popularity.
boxing: They are prohibited from holding the ropes for support when punching, holding an opponent while punching, or ducking below the belt of their opponent (dropping below the waist of your opponent, no matter the distance between).
boxing: The term "ring" has come to be used as a metaphor for many aspects of prize fighting in general.
boxing: Common training equipment includes free weights, rowing machines, jump rope, and medicine balls.
boxing: Deaths of boxers during or after a bout from injuries received in the ring do occur.
boxing: Advantages include the lead hand controls distance, blocks vision, parries, traps hands, and frames.
boxing: The article, a single page in his manual of wrestling and fencing, Progymnasmata: The inn-play, or Cornish-hugg wrestler, described a system of headbutting, punching, eye-gouging, chokes, and hard throws, not recognized in boxing today.
boxing: The punch begins by pushing off the ball of the rear foot, transferring body weight forward into the strike.
boxing: When one collar tie is used it is called a single collar tie and when two collar ties are used it is called a double collar tie.
boxing: In case both fighters gain equal scores from the judges, it is considered a draw.
boxing: In 2007, one study of amateur boxers showed that protective headgear did not prevent brain damage, and another found that amateur boxers faced a high risk of brain damage.
boxing: This is usually an effective combination, because the jab blocks the opponent's view of the cross, making it easier to land cleanly and forcefully.
boxing: The main philosophy of the styles is, that each style has an advantage over one, but disadvantage over the other one.
boxing: The first instance of film censorship in the United States occurred in 1897 when several states banned the showing of prize-fighting films from the state of Nevada, where it was legal at the time.
boxing: Leaning back — moving the upper body backward to evade punches, often combined with shifting weight onto the back leg.
boxing: Advantages include that it is good for obscuring vision and setting up traps.
boxing: Boxing also has its own world championships, which are governed by the WBA, WBC, IBF, and WBO.
boxing: Weight is also transferred from the rear foot to the lead foot, resulting in the rear heel turning outwards as it acts as a fulcrum for the transfer of weight.
boxing: Check hook: A check hook is employed to prevent aggressive boxers from lunging in.
boxing: The cross collar tie is often used with an elbow tie on the same side to keep an opponent from punching and allowing the boxer to circle outside of their opponent.
boxing: The white end is just a way to make it easier for judges to score clean hits.
boxing: From there, the sport of boxing spread to various regions, including Greece, eastward to Mesopotamia, and northward to Rome.
boxing: Bouts consist of three rounds of three minutes in the Olympic and Commonwealth Games, and three rounds of three minutes in a national ABA (Amateur Boxing Association) bout, each with a one-minute interval between rounds.
boxing: The shoulder is rolled forward to meet the incoming punch, deflecting it away from the head and body.
boxing: Injuries to the head are most commonly experienced by participants.
boxing: Boxers always strive to be very light-footed in their movement around the ring.
boxing: The rear hand remains next to the face to guard the jaw.
boxing: Metal studs were introduced to the strips to make the cestus.
boxing: Meldrick Taylor).
boxing: Clinching also includes framing, pinning, posting and trapping an opponent's hand or arm to prevent them from punching.
boxing: This is more of a gimmick than a technical maneuver; this punch is not taught, being on the same plane in boxing technicality as is the Ali shuffle.
boxing: Protects against straight punches, hooks, and uppercuts.
boxing: The reverse elbow block also functions as an intermediating position between a wedge block and a shoulder roll, allowing a boxer to move from a reverse elbow block to a wedge block or shoulder roll.
boxing: Duels (niyuddham) were often fought to the death.
boxing: Another unconventional punch is the rarely used bolo punch, in which the opponent swings an arm out several times in a wide arc, usually as a distraction, before delivering with either that or the other arm.
boxing: Peek-a-Boo boxing was developed by legendary trainer Cus D'Amato.
boxing: However, the data show that the concussion rate in boxing is the highest of all contact sports.
boxing: Failure to abide by the former may result in a foul.
boxing: Taking place in a boxing ring, it involves two opponents throwing punches at each other for a predetermined amount of time.
boxing: The jab is the most important punch in a boxer's arsenal because it provides a fair amount of its own cover and it leaves the least amount of space for a counter-punch from the opponent.
boxing: A half-step may be added, moving the entire body into the punch, for additional power.
boxing: The Gurbilas Shemi, an 18th-century Sikh text, gives numerous references to musti-yuddha.
boxing: Steele then concluded that Taylor was unfit to continue and signaled that he was ending the fight, resulting in a TKO victory for Chávez with only two seconds to go in the bout.
boxing: Wedge block — also known as the horizontal forearm block or leverage block.
boxing: The second, trickier part involves the footwork.
boxing: The head is titled towards the rear shoulder to keep the head off of center-line, and to make space to use the shoulder to block.
boxing: When a boxer is knocked down, the other boxer must immediately cease fighting and move to the furthest neutral corner of the ring until the referee has either ruled a knockout or called for the fight to continue.
boxing: They usually try to stay away from the center of the ring, in order to outmaneuver and chip away at their opponents.
boxing: With the cross block the glove is usually used to block straight punches, but the forearm can also be used.
boxing: A large, swinging circular punch starting from a cocked-back position with the arm at a longer extension than the hook and all of the fighter's weight behind it is sometimes referred to as a "roundhouse", "haymaker", or sucker-punch.
boxing: If he is successful enough, he may even apply extra pressure in the later rounds in an attempt to achieve a knockout.
boxing: Open stance - refers to when one fighter is in an orthodox stance and the other is in a southpaw stance.
boxing: Their movement and tactics are similar to that of an out-fighter (although they are generally not as mobile as an out-fighter), but instead of winning by decision, they tend to wear their opponents down using combinations and then move in to score the knockout.
boxing: 1350 BC shows both boxers and spectators.
boxing: Fighters protected their knuckles with leather strips wrapped around their fists.
boxing: The first part consists of a regular hook.
boxing: Each fighter was given a 10-second count if knocked down, and wrestling was banned.
boxing: Rounds were 3 minutes, with 1-minute rest intervals between rounds.
boxing: Front headlock or chancery, is when a fighter secures a clinch, then uses their shoulder and arm to lock the opponent's head under their armpit.
boxing: To move outside the opponent's extended arm is called "bobbing to the outside".
boxing: Humans have engaged in hand-to-hand combat since the beginning of human history.
boxing: Jab — a quick, straight punch thrown with the lead hand from the guard position.
boxing: For leftwards movement, both orthodox and unorthodox fighters will typically move their left foot first and then their right foot.
boxing: Under these rules, if a man went down and could not continue after a count of 30 seconds, the fight was over.
boxing: However, there are detailed records of various fist-fighting sports that were maintained in different cities and provinces of Italy between the 12th and 17th centuries.
boxing: It is believed that when the Egyptians invaded Nubia, they adopted boxing from the local populace, subsequently popularizing it in Egypt.
boxing: The number system e.g.
boxing: This style is used for reducing head damage at close range, but can be used to defend the body as well.
boxing: An early article on boxing was published in Nottingham in 1713 by Sir Thomas Parkyns, 2nd Baronet, a wrestling patron from Bunny, Nottinghamshire, who had practised the techniques he described.
boxing: 4 (11th ed.).
boxing: Boxing (disambiguation)
List of boxing films
List of current world boxing champions
List of female boxers
List of male boxers
Milling – military training exercise related to boxing
Undisputed champion
Weight class in boxing
Women's boxing
World Colored Heavyweight Championship
boxing: The earliest evidence of the use of gloves can be found in Minoan Crete (c.
boxing: It is unclear when boxing became a sport, but some sources suggest prehistoric origins, dating back to as early as the 6th millennium BC in what is now Ethiopia.
boxing: Broughton encouraged the use of "mufflers", a form of padded bandage or mitten, to be used in "jousting" or sparring sessions in training, and in exhibition matches.
boxing: The out-fighter's main concern is to stay alert, as the brawler only needs to land one good punch to finish the fight.
boxing: Outlawed in England and much of the United States, prizefights were often held at gambling venues and broken up by police.
boxing: As the wearing of swords became less common, there was renewed interest in fencing with the fists.
boxing: Slipping — involves moving the head slightly offline of an incoming punch, often by leaning and twisting the upper body.
boxing: Sullivan in 1892 at the Pelican Athletic Club in New Orleans, Louisiana.
boxing: This action traps their arms on the inside, preventing them from punching.
boxing: The ability to move very lightly on their feet one moment and then suddenly plant them in order to strike the next is one of the main skills a boxer needs to develop.
boxing: Boxing is a combat sport and martial art.
boxing: To perform a clinch, the boxer loops both hands around the outside of the opponent's shoulders, scooping back under the forearms to grasp the opponent's arms tightly against his own body.
boxing: Floyd Mayweather Jr.
boxing: In some cases, one hand is across the face with the forearm horizontal or diagonal.
boxing: The corner will occasionally throw in a white towel to signify a boxer's surrender (the idiomatic phrase "to throw in the towel", meaning to give up, derives from this practice).
boxing: Its advantages include ease of learning, passive defense against straight punches, uppercuts, partial defense against hooks, and better power generation due to bent arms, while also protecting the centerline.
boxing: Although in-fighters struggle against heavy sluggers, they typically enjoy more success against out-fighters or boxers.
boxing: Right-handed or orthodox boxers lead with the left foot and fist (for most penetration power).
boxing: This is generally used against uppercuts to the head.
boxing: Some damage is still done to the boxer while covering, but the goal is to reduce the damage by using the gloves or arms as shock absorbers lessening the severity of blows.
boxing: Cross collar tie also known as a forearm smash, is a clinch technique.
boxing: A relief sculpture from Egyptian Thebes c.
boxing: If a lead left hook is thrown from this position, it will produce a powerful springing action in the lead leg and produce a more explosive punch.
boxing: Left-handed or southpaw fighters use a mirror image of the orthodox stance, which can create problems for orthodox fighters unaccustomed to receiving jabs, hooks, or crosses from the opposite side.
boxing: The more the opponent misses, the faster they tire, and the psychological effects of being unable to land a hit will start to sink in.
boxing: They also are prohibited from kicking, head-butting, or hitting with any part of the arm other than the knuckles of a closed fist (including hitting with the elbow, shoulder or forearm, as well as with open gloves, the wrist, the inside, back or side of the hand).
boxing: The only head punch that a fighter is susceptible to is a punch to the top of the head.
boxing: The sport later resurfaced in England during the early 16th century as bare-knuckle boxing, also known as prizefighting.
boxing: The London Prize Ring Rules introduced measures that remain in effect for professional boxing to this day, such as outlawing butting, gouging, scratching, kicking, hitting a man while down, holding the ropes, and using resin, stones, or hard objects in the hands, and biting.
boxing: The power for the jab originates not from the arm, but from the legs.
boxing: From a closed stance the boxer uses the lead hand to grab the opponent's rear side collar or the back of their neck and their forearm presses against the opponent's collarbone or the back of their neck to control their posture and head movement.
boxing: They are prohibited as well from hitting the back, back of the head or neck (called a "rabbit-punch") or the kidneys.
boxing: Upright stance – In a fully upright stance, the boxer stands with the legs shoulder-width apart and the rear foot a half-step in front of the lead man.
boxing: It also virtually eliminates all head damage.
boxing: A majority of young talent still comes from poverty-stricken areas around the world.
boxing: Closed stance - refers to when both fighters are in orthodox stances or both fighters are in southpaw stances.
boxing: Both sides are allowed to inspect the wraps and gloves of the opponent to help ensure both are within agreed upon specifications and no tampering has taken place.
boxing: Catching is often used for straight punches like the jab.
boxing: A distinct advantage that in-fighters have is when throwing uppercuts, they can channel their entire bodyweight behind the punch; Mike Tyson was famous for throwing devastating uppercuts.
boxing: Arm-in hug usually occurs when the opponent is in a high guard while changing levels to enter the clinch.
boxing: Named for its resemblance to Dracula hiding behind a cape, it uses the lead arm to block vision, control distance, parry, and trap hands, while the rear hand remains ready for power punches and defense.
boxing: Disadvantages include a weak passive defense against uppercuts and straights that bypass the lead arm.
boxing: The boxer must therefore decide how much they want to plant their feet before the punch in order to be in a strong posture to strike from, and how much they want to plant their feet as a concurrent part of the punch.
boxing: The chin is also tucked while covering.
boxing: A "technical knock-out" (TKO) is possible as well, and is ruled by the referee, fight doctor, or a fighter's corner if a fighter is unable to safely continue to fight, based upon injuries or being judged unable to effectively defend themselves.
boxing: Clinch – clinching is a rough form of grappling and occurs when the distance between both fighters has closed and straight punches cannot be employed.
boxing: If a "clinch" – a defensive move in which a boxer wraps their opponent's arms and holds on to create a pause – is broken by the referee, each fighter must take a full step back before punching again (alternatively, the referee may direct the fighters to "punch out" of the clinch).
boxing: The first boxing rules, called the Broughton Rules, were introduced by champion Jack Broughton in 1743 to protect fighters in the ring, where deaths sometimes occurred.
boxing: But if mastered and perfected it can be an effective way to play defense in the sport of boxing.
boxing: The first inductees in 1990 included Jack Johnson, Benny Leonard, Jack Dempsey, Henry Armstrong, Sugar Ray Robinson, Archie Moore, and Muhammad Ali.
boxing: When they move backwards, they will first step backwards with their right foot and then their left foot.
boxing: Any punch other than a jab is considered a power punch.
boxing: Boxers also use punch/focus mitts in which a trainer calls out certain combinations and the fighter strikes the mitts accordingly.
boxing: For additional power, the torso and hips are rotated counter-clockwise as the cross is thrown.
boxing: Mastering this guard demands high defensive specificity despite its initial ease of learning.
boxing: Transnational Boxing Rankings Board (ratings Archived 6 May 2019 at the Wayback Machine)
ESPN (ratings)
The Ring (ratings)
BoxRec (ratings)
Fightstat (rating)
boxing: Dracula guard - A hybrid boxing guard that combines elements of the extended lead arm of the Mummy guard and the rear hand in a Cross Guard positioned for defense.
boxing: For example, an out-fighter will sometimes plant his feet and counter punch, or a slugger may have the stamina to pressure fight with his power punches.
boxing: To move inside the opponent's extended arm is called "bobbing to the inside".
boxing: The in-fighter tries to close that gap and unleash furious flurries.
boxing: As the opponent's punch arrives, the boxer bends the legs quickly and simultaneously shifts the body either slightly right or left.
boxing: The counter puncher often tries to outplay their opponent entirely, not just in a physical sense, but also in a mental and emotional sense.
boxing: Both fighters must wear soft soled shoes to reduce the damage from accidental (or intentional) stepping on feet.
boxing: As the punch reaches full extension, the lead shoulder is brought up to guard the chin.
boxing: However, Bert Blewett, in his 1999 A-Z of World Boxing, states it may have prehistoric origins in present-day Ethiopia, where it appeared in the sixth millennium BC.
boxing: Framing is a defensive technique where a boxer uses their hand, forearm, or body to control an opponent's position, create distance, or disrupt their balance.
boxing: Today the term, "boxing" is also used to refer to any combat sport focused on striking, where two opponents fight each other using their fists, and could possibly involve kicks, elbow strikes, knee strikes, and headbutts, depending on the rules.
boxing: A boxer must be well rounded to be effective using this style.
boxing: Even in the U.S., places like the inner cities of New York and Chicago have produced promising young talent.
boxing: Because of the open-ended style of boxing judging, many fights have controversial results, in which one or both fighters believe they have been "robbed" or unfairly denied a victory.
boxing: Gloves worn by the fighters must be twelve ounces in weight unless the fighters weigh under 165 pounds (75 kg), thus allowing them to wear ten ounce gloves.
boxing: The trainer and assistant typically give advice to the boxer on what they are doing wrong as well as encouraging them if they are losing.
boxing: Western boxers typically participate in one Olympics and then turn pro, while Cubans and boxers from other socialist countries have an opportunity to collect multiple medals.
boxing: Defensive techniques generally fall into 4 categories of evading, blocking, covering and clinching.
boxing: Southpaw stance – refers to a stance where the right leg, and usually the right arm, is forward.
boxing: High guard - This guard involves bending both arms at 90 degrees or less, positioning the gloves in front of the face at eyebrow level, with hands resembling holding binoculars or making a heart shape, with raised shoulders to protect the jaw and elbows pressed together to block uppercuts.
boxing: The fight is controlled by a referee who works within the ring to judge and control the conduct of the fighters, rule on their ability to fight safely, count knocked-down fighters, and rule on fouls.
boxing: The most common is the jab and cross combination, nicknamed the "one-two combo".
boxing: A TKO is considered a knockout in a fighter's record.
boxing: Philly Shell or Michigan Defense — This is a variation of the cross-armed guard.
boxing: This marked the end of widespread public bare-knuckle contests in England.
boxing: In addition, repetitive and subconcussive blows to the head, and not just concussions, cause CTE, and evidence indicates that brain damage and the effects of CTE are more severe in boxing.
boxing: The weakness to this style is that when a fighter is stationary and not rotating they are open to be hit so a fighter must be athletic and well conditioned to effectively execute this style.
boxing: In addition, they also allow trainers to make boxers utilize footwork and distances more accurately.
boxing: The stance described is considered the "textbook" stance and fighters are encouraged to change it around once it's been mastered as a base.
boxing: It involves moving the arm in a half-circle motion, typically starting from the outside and moving inwards, to clear the punch to the side.
boxing: However, Taylor did not stay away, but continued to trade blows with Chávez.
boxing: For crab style fighters with a low lead hand in a closed stance, the fighter must turn their waist towards the incoming hook while using a hook cover to be able to shoulder block, shoulder roll or elbow block a follow-up cross.
boxing: The English case of R v.
boxing: At the same time, the lead hand is retracted and tucked against the face to protect the inside of the chin.
boxing: Uppercut catch — is a defensive technique where a fighter uses their open palm to intercept an incoming uppercut, aiming to slow the momentum of the strike and stopping it from hitting its intended target.
boxing: This position can be difficult to counterpunch from for beginners, but can be highly effective for counterpunching by more experienced fighters.
boxing: To execute this guard a fighter must be very athletic and experienced.
boxing: From the guard position, the rear hand is thrown from the chin, crossing the body and traveling towards the target in a straight line.
boxing: The Boxing Hall of Fame Las Vegas features the $75 million ESPN Classic Sports fight film and tape library and radio broadcast collection.
boxing: Additionally, contact sports, especially combat sports, are directly related to an irreversible neurological disease known as chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE).
boxing: The latter opened in Las Vegas, Nevada in 2013 and was founded by Steve Lott, former assistant manager for Mike Tyson.
boxing: The importance of being light-footed, and the extent to which some fighters achieve it, is demonstrated by Muhammad Ali and Sugar Ray Robinson who were said to be so light-footed that they floated around the ring.
boxing: The brand of gloves can also affect the impact of punches, so this too is usually stipulated before a bout.
boxing: Some in-fighters, like Mike Tyson, have been known for being notoriously hard to hit.
boxing: From this position, the rear hand is thrust upwards in a rising arc towards the opponent's chin or torso.
boxing: It is a defensive technique where a fighter raises their forearm and hand to protect their head, it resembles a person using a hammer.
boxing: In modern boxing, the rope-a-dope is generally discouraged since most opponents are not fooled by it and few boxers possess the physical toughness to withstand a prolonged, unanswered assault.
boxing: A technical knockout would also be awarded if a fighter lands a punch that opens a cut on the opponent, and the opponent is later deemed not fit to continue by a doctor because of the cut.
boxing: Also called "rolling with the punch" or "riding the punch".
boxing: The boxers would wind leather thongs around their hands in order to protect them.
boxing: These early Middle Eastern and Egyptian reliefs depicted contests wherein fighters were either bare-fisted or had a band supporting the wrist.
boxing: Almost all period manuals have powerful straight punches with the whole body behind them to the face (including forehead) as the basic blows.
boxing: Chávez then nailed Taylor with a tremendous right hand that dropped the younger man.
boxing: Since then, the British, Canadian, and Australian Medical Associations have called for bans on boxing.
boxing: Encyclopædia Britannica.
boxing: Boxers practice their skills on several types of punching bags.
boxing: Using the lead hand the glove is over the rear shoulder with the palm facing towards the opponent.
boxing: This style of boxing is also used by fictional boxer Little Mac.
boxing: The earliest evidence of boxing rules dates back to Ancient Greece, when boxing was added to the Olympic games in 688 BC.
boxing: Boxing evolved through the prizefights of the 16th - 18th-centuries, largely in Great Britain, to its modern forerunner in the mid-19th century, with the introduction of the Marquess of Queensberry Rules in 1867.
boxing: Unlike blocking, covering puts the gloves on the boxer's head or body directly.
boxing: As such, knockouts are more common than one would expect from a defensive style.
boxing: As he did so, Taylor showed signs of extreme exhaustion, and every tick of the clock brought Taylor closer to victory unless Chávez could knock him out.
boxing: Encyclopædia Britannica Online.
boxing: In many other venues sanctioned by amateur boxing associations.
boxing: When a boxer strikes they set themselves to do so.
boxing: Furthermore, as the contestants did not have heavy leather gloves and wristwraps to protect their hands, they used different punching techniques to avoid injury, since the head was a common target to hit full force.
boxing: In 1983, editorials in the Journal of the American Medical Association called for a ban on boxing.
boxing: Powerful lead hooks and uppercuts are harder to throw since the arm must retract first, telegraphing the punch.
boxing: The editor, George Lundberg, called boxing an "obscenity" that "should not be sanctioned by any civilized society".
boxing: amateur boxing ==
boxing: Referees also ensure that the boxers don't use holding tactics to prevent the opponent from swinging.
boxing: Chávez was the epitome of the "Mexican" style of boxing.
boxing: The boxer's arm is placed under their opponent's arm or armpit.
boxing: The rear (right) fist is held beside the chin and the elbow tucked against the ribcage to protect the body.
boxing: In general when boxers are in a closed stance the boxer uses their rear hand to catch a lead uppercut and their lead hand to catch a rear uppercut.
boxing: A boxer may win the bout before a decision is reached through a knock-out; such bouts are said to have ended "inside the distance".
boxing: Wide, looping punches have the further disadvantage of taking more time to deliver, giving the opponent ample warning to react and counter.
boxing: And for rightwards movement their right foot first and then their left foot.
boxing: The torso and hips are rotated clockwise, propelling the fist through a tight, clockwise arc across the front of the body and connecting with the target.
boxing: The preparatory positioning of the bodyweight over the bent lead leg is also known as an isometric preload.
boxing: However, not all brawler/slugger fighters are not mobile; some can move around and switch styles if needed but still have the brawler/slugger style such as Wilfredo Gómez, Prince Naseem Hamed and Danny García.
boxing: Boxing techniques have been incorporated into many martial arts, military systems, as well as other combat sports.
boxing: When protecting the body, the boxer rotates the hips and lets incoming punches "roll" off the guard.
boxing: Sometimes it has been used, because of its immense potential power, to finish off an already staggering opponent who seems unable or unlikely to take advantage of the poor position it leaves the puncher in.
boxing: Additionally, opponents can exploit lateral movement to close the distance and land punches before the extended arms can react.
boxing: The literature review indicates that head guards provide effective protection against lacerations and skull fractures.
boxing: A successful in-fighter often needs a good "chin" because swarming usually involves being hit with many jabs before they can maneuver inside where they are more effective.
boxing: A fight with a skilled counter-puncher can turn into a war of attrition, where each shot landed is a battle in itself.
boxing: Thus, the blow thuds into your shoulder instead of into your face (Figure 53).
boxing: The arms are wrapped around the opponent, covering the whole body.
boxing: Underhook is a position that a boxer may use in a clinch.
boxing: As the opponent's punch arrives, the boxer delivers a sharp, lateral, open-handed blow to the opponent's wrist or forearm, redirecting the punch.
boxing: Up to three judges are typically present at ringside to score the bout and assign points to the boxers, based on punches and elbows that connect, defense, knockdowns, hugging and other, more subjective, measures.
boxing: In this situation, the boxer attempts to hold or "tie up" the opponent's hands so he is unable to throw hooks or uppercuts.
boxing: Others have argued that the check hook exists but is an illegal punch due to it being a pivot punch which is illegal in the sport.
boxing: When a boxer secures one underhook it is called a single underhook and when using both underhooks it is called double underhooks.
boxing: When the Middle Kingdom of Egypt invaded Nubia, it learned the art of boxing from the local population and brought the sport back to Egypt, where it became popular.
boxing: During the period of the Western Satraps, the ruler Rudradaman—in addition to being well-versed in Indian classical music, Sanskrit grammar, and logic—was said to be an excellent horseman, charioteer, elephant rider, swordsman, and boxer.
boxing: Proper sidespersons were chosen, and every matter was conducted in form.
boxing: It is often used in combination with other arm positions such as an overhook which is called an over-under position.
boxing: Gloves have been required in competition since the late nineteenth century, though modern boxing gloves are much heavier than those worn by early twentieth-century fighters.
boxing: The lead shoulder is brought in tight against the side of the face.
boxing: Classic guards or Basic Guards: The modern Classic Guards are often the first Guards taught to boxers as the initial guard position is easy to learn, and they are effective against haymakers, which is the type of punch many untrained fighters and beginners use often.
boxing: Guards fitting into this category include:
boxing: This style is used by fighters who like to counterpunch.
boxing: Long guards, also known as Extended Guard: In boxing these guards are often used by taller fighters or fighters with longer reach to keep opponents out of punching range, but shorter fighters or fighters with shorter reach often use them intermittently.
boxing: Some fighters may have their guard higher for more head protection while others have their guard lower to provide better protection against body punches.
boxing: It was banned in Sweden until 2007, when the ban was lifted, but strict restrictions, including four three-minute rounds for fights, were imposed.
boxing: In that case, the other participant is awarded a technical knockout win.
boxing: Crouching stance – Some boxers fight from a crouch, leaning forward and keeping their feet closer together.
boxing: Many brawlers tend to lack mobility, preferring a less mobile, more stable platform and have difficulty pursuing fighters who are fast on their feet.
boxing: Bobo Olson was the first known champion to use this as a defense.
boxing: The lead arm (left for an orthodox fighter and right for a southpaw) is placed across the abdomen, below the rear arm, to protect the body.
boxing: Boxing could also be used to settle disputes, even by females.
boxing: 1500–1000 BCE) and Ramayana (c.
boxing: This technique is often used when facing opponents who throw high-impact punches to defend against hooks and overhands.
boxing: Due to its relatively weak power, the jab is often used as a tool to gauge distances, probe an opponent's defenses, and set up heavier, more powerful punches.
boxing: Both the hook and uppercut may be thrown with both hands, resulting in differing footwork and positioning from that described above if thrown by the other hand.
boxing: This is a great exercise for stamina as the boxer isn't allowed to go at his own pace but that of the trainer, typically forcing the fighter to endure a higher output and volume than usual.
boxing: Corbett, who defeated John L.
boxing: The Hall of Fame's induction ceremony is held every June as part of a four-day event.
boxing: In-fighters/swarmers (sometimes called "pressure fighters") attempt to stay close to an opponent, throwing intense flurries and combinations of hooks and uppercuts.
boxing: Cross-armed guard (sometimes known as the armadillo) - the forearms are placed on top of each other horizontally in front of the face with the glove of one arm being on the top of the elbow of the other arm.
boxing: In this position, the opponent's arms are pinned and cannot be used to attack.
boxing: Helmet cover – also known as a Hammer cover, is a variation of the Hook cover.
boxing: The hook may also be thrown with the rear hand.
boxing: Exposes the lead side of the body and makes reach more predictable.
boxing: And vice versa for unorthodox south-paw fighters.
boxing: Orthodox stance refers to a stance where the left leg, and usually the left arm, is forward.
boxing: Middleweight champion Ceferino Garcia is regarded as the inventor of the bolo punch.
boxing: There are two parts to the check hook.
boxing: The feet are not just planted before a punch but also during it.
boxing: Weight categories were not used, which led to heavier fighters often dominating.
boxing: The straight sets up the lead hook well.
boxing: A brawler's most important assets are power and chin (the ability to absorb punishment while remaining able to continue boxing).
boxing: For this reason, fighters often employ cutmen, whose job is to treat cuts between rounds so that the boxer is able to continue despite the cut.
boxing: However, several fighters tall for their division have been relatively adept at in-fighting as well as out-fighting.
boxing: A haymaker is a wide-angle punch similar to a hook, but instead of getting power from body rotation, it gets its power from its large loop.
boxing: The southpaw stance, conversely, is vulnerable to a straight right hand.
boxing: Mike Tyson was a keen practitioner of a crouched stance and this style of power punching.
boxing: Modern sport arose from illegal venues and outlawed prizefighting and has become a multibillion-dollar commercial enterprise.
boxing: It was at this point that the term "boxing" first came to be used, though the earliest form of modern boxing was very different from boxing as practiced now.
boxing: The guard also limits close-range effectiveness and lateral movement, as the high hand position makes punches more predictable, and reliance on blocking with the hands can delay counterpunching opportunities.
boxing: If a boxer simply quits fighting, or if his corner stops the fight, then the winning boxer is also awarded a technical knockout victory.
boxing: The sport of boxing has two internationally recognized boxing halls of fame; the International Boxing Hall of Fame (IBHOF) and the Boxing Hall of Fame Las Vegas.
boxing: Wrists are slightly bent to avoid damage when punching and the elbows are kept tucked in to protect the ribcage.
boxing: Each punch that lands cleanly on the head or torso with sufficient force is awarded a point.
boxing: However, in terms of sports competition, due to the lack of writing in the prehistory and the lack of references, it is not possible to determine rules of any kind of boxing in prehistory; ancient history can be inferred from only the few intact sources and references to boxing-like activities.
boxing: The martial art is related to other forms of martial arts found in other parts of Greater India, including Muay Thai in Thailand, Muay Lao in Laos, Pradal Serey in Cambodia, and Lethwei in Myanmar.
boxing: Unlike blocking, causing an opponent to miss a punch disrupts his balance, this permits forward movement past the opponent's extended arm and keeps the hands free to counter.
boxing: The boxer or out-fighter tends to be most successful against a brawler, whose slow speed (both hand and foot) and poor technique make him an easy target for the faster out-fighter.
boxing: In 2016, professional boxers were admitted in the Olympic Games and other tournaments sanctioned by AIBA.
boxing: The very fast planting of the feet as a part of the punch makes it more powerful and explosive.
boxing: Counter punchers usually wear their opponents down by causing them to miss their punches.
boxing: An opponent will often go for a headlock to get out of a defensive body lock that has been applied.
boxing: Places like Mexico, Africa, South America, and Eastern Europe prove to be filled with young aspiring athletes who wish to become the future of boxing.
boxing: Tyson Fury also attempted this against Francesco Pianeto but did not pull it off as smoothly.
boxing: The inaugural inductees included Muhammad Ali, Henry Armstrong, Tony Canzoneri, Ezzard Charles, Julio César Chávez Sr., Jack Dempsey, Roberto Durán, Joe Louis, and Sugar Ray Robinson.
boxing: A boxing match typically consists of a determined number of three-minute rounds, a total of up to 9 to 12 rounds with a minute spent between each round with the fighters resting in their assigned corners and receiving advice and attention from their coach and staff.
boxing: The lead overhand and rear overhand are the remaining basic punches.
boxing: Relying on body weight and centripetal force within a wide arc, the roundhouse can be a powerful blow, but it is often a wild and uncontrolled punch that leaves the fighter delivering it off balance and with an open guard.
boxing: Their slowness and predictable punching pattern (single punches with obvious leads) often leaves them open to counter punches, so successful brawlers must be able to absorb a substantial amount of punishment.
boxing: Violations of these rules may be ruled "fouls" by the referee, who may issue warnings, deduct points, or disqualify an offending boxer, causing an automatic loss, depending on the seriousness and intentionality of the foul.
boxing: From a closed stance the boxer uses the lead hand to go across their body to grab the opponent's lead side collar, or the back of their neck and their forearm presses against the opponent's collarbone or the back of their neck to control their posture and head movement.
boxing: The back-leaning posture, which does not cause the defending boxer to become as unbalanced as he would during normal backward movement, also maximizes the distance of the defender's head from his opponent, increasing the probability that punches will miss their intended target.
boxing: Norway legalized professional boxing in December 2014.
boxing: If the out-fighter can avoid those power punches, he can often wear the brawler down with fast jabs, tiring him out.
boxing: Forearm body blocks — Boxers, especially classic guard fighters, will often turn their body towards straight strikes and uppercuts to the midsection using their forearms to block.
boxing: For clarity, the following assumes a right-handed boxer.
boxing: Parry — parrying uses the boxer's hands as defensive tools to deflect incoming attacks.
boxing: This can be seen in the fight between Diego Corrales and Floyd Mayweather.
boxing: Shoulder block — a defensive technique where a fighter uses their shoulder to deflect or block punches, particularly the opponent's lead hand punch like a right cross or a southpaw jab.
boxing: An underhook can be used to push the opponent's arm down or lift the opponent up and destabilize them, breaking their balance and getting them off their base.
boxing: 1500–1400 BC).
boxing: Variations include:
boxing: General Collection, Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Yale University.
boxing: The double-end bag is usually connected by elastic on the top and bottom and moves randomly upon getting struck and helps the fighter work on accuracy and reflexes.
boxing: Notable left hookers include Joe Frazier, Roy Jones Jr.
boxing: This guard offers passive defense against hooks by using the gloves, forearms, and elbows to block, while the bent-arm position allows for powerful punches and better visibility than other classic guards.
boxing: The earliest references to musti-yuddha come from Indian epic poetry, such as the Rig Veda (c.
boxing: 700–400 BCE).
boxing: You give your left shoulder a frantic, whirling hunch to protect
your already snuggled chin.
boxing: If executed correctly, the aggressive boxer will lunge in and sail harmlessly past his opponent like a bull missing a matador.
boxing: Many jurisdictions and sanctioning agencies also have a "three-knockdown rule", in which three knockdowns in a given round result in a TKO.
boxing: There are cases however, where white ended gloves are not required but any solid color may be worn.
boxing: This style is greatly varied when the back hand (right for an orthodox fighter and left for a southpaw) rises vertically.
boxing: Therefore, AIBA's decision to terminate the head guard must be considered cautiously, and injury rates among (male) boxers should be continuously evaluated.
boxing: Shoulder roll – To execute the shoulder roll a fighter rotates and ducks (to the right for orthodox fighters and to the left for southpaws) when their opponents punch is coming towards them and then rotates back towards their opponent while their opponent is bringing their hand back.
boxing: Other unique features includes side to side head movements, bobbing, weaving and blind siding your opponent.
boxing: This disease begins during the athlete's life and continues even after sports activity has ceased.
boxing: Amateur boxing may be found at the collegiate level, at the Olympic Games, Commonwealth Games, Asian Games, etc.
boxing: Collar tie also known as the head pull, is a clinch technique.
boxing: Participating in boxing causes physical injuries.
boxing: They must be ready to switch between stepping and striking very quickly.
boxing: Eventually, harder leather was used, and the strips became a weapon.
boxing: Brawlers tend to be more predictable and easy to hit but usually fare well enough against other fighting styles because they train to take punches very well.
boxing: Mainly Mexican, Irish, Irish-American, Puerto Rican, and Mexican-American boxers popularized this style.
boxing: An example of a style matchup was the historical fight of Julio César Chávez, a swarmer or in-fighter, against Meldrick Taylor, the boxer or out-fighter (see Julio César Chávez vs.
boxing: They were aided by the influence of promoters like Tex Rickard and the popularity of great champions such as John L.
boxing: At the same time, the knees push upwards quickly and the torso and hips rotate anti-clockwise and the rear heel turns outward, mimicking the body movement of the cross.
boxing: If the boxer uses their rear hand in a closed stance they would cross their body and grab their opponents rear side.
boxing: Boxing is overseen by a referee and consists of a series of 1 - 3 minute intervals called "rounds".
boxing: The gloves can be used to block an opponent's blows.
boxing: Amateur bouts which end this way may be noted as "RSC" (referee stopped contest) with notations for an outclassed opponent (RSCO), outscored opponent (RSCOS), injury (RSCI) or head injury (RSCH).
boxing: Suddenly Chávez stepped around Taylor, positioning him so that Taylor was trapped in the corner, with no way to escape from Chávez' desperate final flurry.
boxing: Referee Richard Steele asked Taylor twice if he was able to continue fighting, but Taylor failed to answer.
boxing: This enables them to move quickly in and out of range and position themselves to attack from different angles.
boxing: Some notable boxers who have been able to develop relative power in their jabs and use it to punish or wear down their opponents to some effect include Larry Holmes and Wladimir Klitschko.
boxing: In a cross block position with the rear hand, the glove is over the lead shoulder with the palm facing towards the opponent.
boxing: Pacquiao followed up the rope-a-dope gambit with a withering knockdown.
boxing: Four main styles exist in boxing: In-Fighter, Out-Boxer, Slugger and Boxer-Puncher.
boxing: A "standing eight" count rule may also be in effect.
boxing: Intentionally going down in modern boxing will result in the recovering fighter losing points under the scoring system.
boxing: For instance, a crouched stance allows for the bodyweight to be positioned further forward over the lead left leg.
boxing: In modern boxing, there is a three-minute limit to rounds (unlike the downed fighter ends the round rule).
boxing: Boxing was banned in Albania from 1965 until the fall of communism in 1991.
boxing: How a boxer uses their feet is related to the boxing stance which they are in.
boxing: In ancient Rus, bare-knuckle boxing was known as kulachniy boy (Russian: кулачный бой, lit.
boxing: The style of boxing typically featured an advanced left-leg stance, with the left arm semi-extended as a guard, used for striking, and the right arm drawn back, ready to strike.
boxing: and Mike Tyson.
boxing: From 1980 to 2007, more than 200 amateur boxers, professional boxers and Toughman fighters died due to ring or training injuries.
boxing: The fighter will throw a punch with their back hand as they are rotating towards their undefended opponent.
boxing: Most classic boxers, such as Muhammad Ali, enjoyed their best successes against sluggers.
boxing: The positioning of the hands may also vary, as some fighters prefer to have both hands raised in front of the face, risking exposure to body shots.
boxing: This is of particular importance because many fights are stopped because of cuts or swelling that threaten the boxer's eyes.
boxing: A bout in which the predetermined number of rounds passes is decided by the judges, and is said to "go the distance".
boxing: The strategic utility of the uppercut depends on its ability to "lift" an opponent's body, setting it off-balance for successive attacks.
boxing: After the punch glances off, the fighter's back hand is in perfect position to hit their out-of-position opponent.
boxing: Low parry — is a defensive technique used to deflect punches aimed at the body, particularly low punches.
boxing: In addition, effective training methods and a short career can reduce the effects of brain damage.
boxing: As a result, it was an extremely chaotic and brutal affair.
boxing: After counting the referee will observe the fighter, and decide if the fighter is fit to continue.
boxing: For scoring purposes, a standing eight count is treated as a knockdown.
boxing: Elbow body blocks — Boxers often use their elbows to block hooks to the liver and kidneys by moving their elbows or leaning their bodies so the elbow connects with their opponent's fists.
boxing: The head of the opponent was primarily targeted, and there is little evidence that targeting the body or using kicks was common, thus resembling modern Western boxing.
boxing: For most fighters, an amateur career, especially at the Olympics, serves to develop skills and gain experience in preparation for a professional career.
boxing: This block is used primarily with the lead arm to defend against straight punches by moving the arm upwards towards the incoming punch.
boxing: In 1867, the Marquess of Queensberry rules were drafted by John Graham Chambers for amateur championships held at Lillie Bridge in London for lightweights, middleweights, and heavyweights.
boxing: Throughout the 17th to 19th centuries, boxing bouts were motivated by money, as the fighters competed for prize money, promoters controlled the gate, and spectators bet on the result.
boxing: The first world heavyweight champion under the Queensberry Rules was James J.
boxing: Hitting a downed fighter and grasping below the waist were prohibited.
boxing: However, professional organizations strongly opposed that decision.
boxing: Upon contact, the hook's circular path ends abruptly and the lead hand is pulled quickly back into the guard position.
boxing: The rear hand is tucked firmly against the jaw to protect the chin.
boxing: If the crab style boxer does not turn their waist the hook will pin the boxer's glove to their head making them unable to turn their waist to shoulder block, shoulder roll or reverse elbow block a follow up cross, with the low lead this will leave them open to being hit by the cross.
boxing: These styles may be divided into several special subgroups, such as counter puncher, etc.
boxing: The match was nicknamed "Thunder Meets Lightning" as an allusion to punching power of Chávez and blinding speed of Taylor.
boxing: The collection includes the fights of many great champions, including: Muhammad Ali, Mike Tyson, George Foreman, Roberto Durán, Marvin Hagler, Jack Dempsey, Joe Louis, Joe Frazier, Rocky Marciano and Sugar Ray Robinson.
boxing: If this occurs, the referee separates the opponents and orders them to continue boxing.
boxing: From the guard position, the torso shifts slightly to the right, the rear hand drops below the level of the opponent's chest and the knees are bent slightly.
boxing: Although the term 'boxing' commonly refers to the Western style, where only the fists are used, it has evolved differently in various regions and cultures across the world.
boxing: Taylor's hand and foot speed and boxing abilities gave him the early advantage, allowing him to begin building a large lead on points.
boxing: A small, tear-drop-shaped "speed bag" is used to hone reflexes and repetitive punching skills, while a large cylindrical "heavy bag" filled with sand, a synthetic substitute, or water is used to practice power punching and body blows.
boxing: You'll be tempted to make a "shell defense" with shoulder and hand.
boxing: Some jurisdictions require the referee to count to eight regardless of if the fighter gets up before.
boxing: Hook cover – a hook cover is a defense against a hook where a boxer raises their hand up, bending the elbow as if answering a phone creating a position where the glove covers the head against the hook.
boxing: employed the use of a check hook against Ricky Hatton, which sent Hatton flying head first into the corner post and being knocked down.
boxing: The style adapts to different boxing approaches: infighters use it to advance safely, out-boxers rely on one-handed defense to strike while evading, and sluggers use it to cover up after missed power shots.
boxing: Ancient Greek boxing (Ancient Greek: πυγμαχία, romanized: pygmakhia, lit.
boxing: Traditional guard - This guard involves bending both arms at 90 degrees or less, with the lead arm extended slightly away from the head and the rear fist held near the chin or jaw.
boxing: Allows quick jabs and rear hand power punches.
boxing: With three judges, unanimous and split decisions are possible, as are draws.
boxing: It is especially popular with smaller stature boxers trying to reach taller opponents.
boxing: Bladed stance – many European fighters stand with their torso turned more to the side.
boxing: For example, a combination of boxing and sportive sambo techniques gave rise to a combat sambo.
boxing: Professional bouts are usually much longer than amateur bouts, typically ranging from ten to twelve rounds, though four-round fights are common for less experienced fighters or club fighters.
boxing: For a left-handed boxer or southpaw, the hand positions are reversed.
boxing: Clinching is a temporary match state and is quickly dissipated by the referee.
boxing: In boxing, each fighter is given a corner of the ring where they rest in between rounds for one minute and where their trainers stand.
boxing: At any time, the referee may stop the contest if he believes that one participant cannot defend himself due to injury.
boxing: Reverse cross-armed guard - The forearms can be placed on top of each other horizontally or diagonally in front of the face with the lead arm (left for an orthodox fighter and right for a southpaw) being on the top of the rear arm with lead glove over the rear shoulder.
boxing: From the guard position, the elbow is drawn back with a horizontal fist (palm facing down) though in modern times a wide percentage of fighters throw the hook with a vertical fist (palm facing themselves).
boxing: Overhand — The overhand punch, also known as a drop or overcut, is a powerful, semi-circular strike thrown in a vertical, arcing motion designed to go over an opponent's guard or strike, like a jab, to hit their head.
boxing: Overhand: The overhand is a punch, thrown from the rear hand, not found in every boxer's arsenal.
boxing: On 6 January 1681, the first recorded boxing match took place in Britain with Christopher Monck, 2nd Duke of Albemarle (later the lieutenant governor of Jamaica) engineering a match between his butler and his butcher; the latter won the prize.
boxing: Accidental fouls that cause injury ending a bout may lead to a "no contest" result, or else cause the fight to go to a decision if enough rounds (typically four or more, or at least three in a four-round fight) have passed.
boxing: The boxer may also slightly lean the upper body away from the incoming hook, coordinating this lean with a small step or shift in their weight to maintain balance and create space for a counter.
boxing: It has the longest reach of any punch and does not require commitment or large weight transfers.
boxing: In Olympic boxing, because a winner must be declared, judges award the contest to one fighter based on technical criteria.
boxing: 'fist fight'), first appearing in the Church Slavonic Primary Chronicle published c.
boxing: However, the Mummy Guard limits power punches since strikes require retracting the arms first, telegraphing movements and leaving the lead side vulnerable.
boxing: Unlike the cross, which has a trajectory parallel to the ground, the overhand has a looping circular arc as it is thrown over the shoulder with the palm facing away from the boxer.
boxing: By using the ring ropes to pull himself up, Taylor managed to return to his feet and was given the mandatory 8-count.
boxing: Generally the analogous opposite is true of the footwork and torso movement.
boxing: Contests in Figg's time, in addition to fistfighting, also included fencing and cudgeling.
boxing: The many variations of this defense include:
boxing: Hook – A semi-circular punch thrown with the lead hand to the side of the opponent's head.
boxing: Once the punch has been evaded, the boxer "weaves" back to an upright position, emerging on either the outside or inside of the opponent's still-extended arm.
boxing: Crab style guards: Work at all ranges, allowing fighters to defend while countering—such as using a lead arm to block jabs while keeping the rear hand free to punch.
boxing: Out-fighters prefer a slower fight, with some distance between themselves and the opponent.
boxing: Repeated holding can result in a boxer being penalized or ultimately disqualified.
boxing: However, it leaves the centerline exposed, requiring quick reflexes and active defense, like parries, against straight punches and uppercuts, which can be difficult to master due to the need for specific blocking.
boxing: This gives the referee the right to step in and administer a count of eight to a fighter that the referee feels may be in danger, even if no knockdown has taken place.
boxing: In contrast with amateur boxing, professional male boxers have to be bare-chested.
boxing: Hand wraps are used to secure the bones in the hand, and the gloves are used to protect the hands from blunt injury, allowing boxers to throw punches with more force than if they did not use them.
boxing: For an orthodox left-handed boxer who has a left foot forward stance, they will standardly step forward first with their left foot and then follow with their right.
boxing: Boxing utilizes different frames, including entrance frames for closing distance and exit frames for creating space after an attack.
boxing: Boxing was a popular spectator sport in Ancient Rome.
boxing: Thus, fighting against counter punchers requires constant feinting and the ability to avoid telegraphing one's attacks.
boxing: A classic "boxer" or stylist (also known as an "out-fighter") seeks to maintain distance between himself and his opponent, fighting with faster, longer range punches, most notably the jab, and gradually wearing his opponent down.
boxing: Boxing was introduced in the Ancient Olympic Games of 688 BC.
boxing: It is considered an unsophisticated punch, and leaves one open to a counter.
boxing: The International Boxing Association (AIBA) restricted the use of head guards for senior male competitors at the World Championships and the Olympics after 2013.
boxing: In an open stance the boxer generally uses their lead hand to catch a lead uppercut and their rear hand to catch a rear uppercut.
boxing: A winner can be decided before the rounds are complete if a referee determines that an opponent is unable to continue, disqualifies an opponent, or if the opponent is knocked out or quits.
boxing: At the same time, the lead foot pivots clockwise, turning the left heel outwards.
boxing: It can be used against hooks by moving the arm up and outwards towards the incoming hook, or outwards to jam uppercuts in boxing.
boxing: There are also some two- and three-round professional bouts, especially in Australia.
boxing: The arm-in hug is a rather weak position that should not be relied on too much as an opponent can easily break out of it by pushing, or putting a frame with the forearm or elbow.
boxing: Peek-a-Boo boxing utilizes relaxed hands with the forearms in front of the face and the fist at nose-eye level.
boxing: The boxer can also grab the opponent's shoulder and pull it down and to the side in the same way as they would against their opponent's head.
boxing: Professional boxing remains by far the most popular form of the sport globally, though amateur boxing is dominant in Cuba and some former Soviet republics.
boxing: It offers extra protection to the face and makes it easier to jab the opponent's face.
boxing: This springing action could not be generated effectively, for this punch, if an upright stance was used or if the bodyweight was positioned predominantly over the back leg.
boxing: In-fighters operate best at close range because they are generally shorter and have less reach than their opponents and thus are more effective at a short distance where the longer arms of their opponents make punching awkward.
boxing: The reverse elbow block can be used from a shoulder roll position.
boxing: This is rarely seen in professional boxing as it requires a great disparity in skill level to execute.
boxing: Joe Louis, after retirement, admitted that he hated being crowded, and that swarmers like untied/undefeated champ Rocky Marciano would have caused him style problems even in his prime.
boxing: Each competitor must have their hands properly wrapped, pre-fight, for added protection on their hands and for added cushion under the gloves.
boxing: The key to a swarmer is aggression, endurance, chin, and bobbing-and-weaving.
boxing: Throughout the early 20th century, boxers struggled to achieve legitimacy.
boxing: Additionally, it offers only one line of defense, makes counterpunching slower, and leaves fighters vulnerable to hand traps, framing, and split guards, though skilled boxers can bait opponents into counterattacks.
boxing: Sullivan, Max Baer, Prince Naseem Hamed, Ray Mancini, David Tua, Arturo Gatti, Micky Ward, Brandon Ríos, Ruslan Provodnikov, Michael Katsidis, James Kirkland, Marcos Maidana, Vitali Klitschko, Jake LaMotta, Manny Pacquiao, and Ireland's John Duddy.
boxing: In general, boxers are prohibited from hitting below the belt, holding, tripping, pushing, biting, or spitting.
boxing: The rear hand remains ready for power punches and defends against hooks.
boxing: Disadvantages include it limits powerful lead hooks and uppercuts as it requires pulling the arm back first, telegraphing the strike.
boxing: Nevertheless, a few professional boxers have used the bolo-punch to great effect, including former welterweight champions Sugar Ray Leonard, and Kid Gavilán as well as current British fighter Chris Eubank Jr.
boxing: Its flexibility makes it effective for both offense and defense.
boxing: Boxers who have used this punch consistently and effectively include former heavyweight champions Rocky Marciano and Tim Witherspoon, as well as MMA champions Chuck Liddell and Fedor Emelianenko.
boxing: However, it limits visibility, allows opponents to close distance more easily, leaves ears and jaw exposed to hooks, and exposes the lower body to attacks, relying heavily on forearm blocking, which can cause cumulative damage.
boxing: A cross-counter is a counterpunch begun immediately after an opponent throws a jab, exploiting the opening in the opponent's position.
boxing: Punch catch — is a defensive technique where a fighter uses their open palm to intercept an incoming punch, aiming to slow the momentum of the strike and stopping it from hitting its intended target.
boxing: The Gothenburg study analyzed temporary levels of neurofilament light in cerebrospinal fluid which they conclude is evidence of damage, even though the levels soon subside.
boxing: Each fighter has an assigned corner of the ring, where their coach, as well as one or more "seconds" may administer to the fighter at the beginning of the fight and between rounds.
boxing: Mummy guard is a boxing stance where both arms are extended with slightly bent elbows and palms facing the opponent, while the chin is tucked and shoulders are raised for protection.
boxing: The modern Olympic movement revived interest in amateur sports, and amateur boxing became an Olympic sport in 1908.
boxing: In their current form, Olympic and other amateur bouts are typically limited to three or four rounds, scoring is computed by points based on the number of clean blows landed, regardless of impact, and fighters wear protective headgear, reducing the number of injuries, knockdowns, and knockouts.
boxing: The earliest visual evidence of boxing comes from Egypt and Sumer, both from the 3rd millennium, and are found in Sumerian carvings dating to the 3rd and 2nd millennium BC.
boxing: The goal is to control the opponent's head by bending it down.
boxing: The overhand has become a popular weapon in other tournaments that involve fist striking.
boxing: Records of boxing activity disappeared in the West after the fall of the Western Roman Empire, when the wearing of weapons became common once again and interest in fistfighting waned.
boxing: They use their well-rounded defense to avoid or block shots and then immediately catch the opponent off guard with a well placed and timed punch.
boxing: A referee monitors the fight to ensure that competitors use only legal blows.
boxing: While there was little doubt that Taylor had solidly won the first three quarters of the fight, the question at hand was whether he would survive the final quarter.
boxing: To be truly successful using this style they must have good reflexes, a high level of prediction and awareness, pinpoint accuracy and speed, both in striking and in footwork.
boxing: The introduction of boxing gloves of "fair-size" also changed the nature of the bouts.
boxing: There is a generally accepted rule of thumb about the success each of these boxing styles has against the others.
boxing: Naturally, many other factors, such as the skill level and training of the combatants, determine the outcome of a fight, but the widely held belief in this relationship among the styles is embodied in the cliché amongst boxing fans and writers that "styles make fights".
boxing: The modern stance has a more upright vertical-armed guard, as opposed to the more horizontal, knuckles-facing-forward guard adopted by early 20th century hook users such as Jack Johnson.
boxing: Supporters of the ban argue that boxing is the only sport in which hurting the other athlete is the goal.
boxing: After several knock-down blows on both sides, the battle ended in favour of Farmery.
