brand: Self-image: How one brand-customer portrays their ideal self – how they want to look and behave; what they aspire to – brands can target their messaging accordingly and make the brand's aspirations reflect theirs.
brand: The Quaker Oats Company began using the image of the Quaker Man in place of a trademark from the late 1870s, with great success.
brand: This began the modern practice now known as branding, where the consumers buy the brand instead of the product and rely on the brand name instead of a retailer's recommendation.
brand: –  For "Nothing is as volatile than a dream."
"Growth without End" – Avoiding to be perceived as an omnipresent, diluting brand appeal.
brand: Examples of this include the #ShareACoke campaign by Coca-Cola which printed people's names and place names on their bottles encouraging people.
brand: Examples of successful subbranding can be seen through Gatorade and Porsche.
brand: A doppelgänger brand image or "DBI"  is a disparaging image or story about a brand that is circulated in popular culture.
brand: Quite literally, one can easily describe a successful brand identity as if it were a person.
brand: Over time, manufacturers began to use branded messages to give the brand a unique personality.
brand: Roman glassmakers branded their works, with the name of Ennion appearing most prominently.
brand: For example, a brand may showcase its primary attribute as environmental friendliness.
brand: It can alter a brand's identity as subbranding can modify associations of the parent brand.
brand: In order for brands to effectively communicate to customers, marketers must "…consider all touch point|s, or sources of contact, that a customer has with the brand".
brand: Branding was used to differentiate one person's cattle from another's by means of a distinctive symbol burned into the animal's skin with a hot branding iron.
brand: The psychological aspect, sometimes referred to as the brand image, is a symbolic construct created within the minds of people, consisting of all the information and expectations associated with a product, with a service, or with the companies providing them.
brand: The practice of branding—in the original literal sense of marking by burning—is thought to have begun with the ancient Egyptians, who are known to have engaged in livestock branding and branded slaves as early as 2,700 BCE.
brand: Hallmarks, although known from the 4th-century, especially in Byzantium, only came into general use during the Medieval period.
brand: British silversmiths introduced hallmarks for silver in 1300.
brand: Identity marks, such as stamps on ceramics, were also used in ancient Egypt.
brand: Sometimes the target organization is forced to address the root concern or to re-position the brand in a way that defuses the criticism.
brand: Multibranding is best used as an approach when each brand in intended for a different market segment.
brand: Doppelgänger brands are typically created by individuals or groups to express criticism of a brand and its perceived values, through a form of parody, and are typically unflattering in nature.
brand: "Longing versus Belonging" – Playing with the opposing desires of people for Inclusion on the one hand and Exclusivity on the other.
brand: Blind stamps, hallmarks, and silver-makers' marks—all types of brand—became widely used across Europe during this period.
brand: However, over time, a product's brand identity may acquire (evolve), gaining new attributes from consumer perspective but not necessarily from the marketing communications, an owner percolates to targeted consumers.
brand: This does not necessarily require consumers to identify or recall the brand name.
brand: This means that shoppers will purchase within a group of accepted brands rather than choosing one specific brand.
brand: "The cultural brand management process" – Actively engaging in the myth-making process in making sure the brand maintains its position as an icon.
brand: Successful brands are those that consistently generate a high level of brand awareness, as this can be the pivotal factor in securing customer transactions.
brand: In this context, a "brand name" constitutes a type of trademark, if the brand name exclusively identifies the brand owner as the commercial source of products or services.
brand: For retail outlets, these types of collaborations give them greater control over the design process as well as access to exclusive store brands that can potentially drive store traffic.
brand: Cannibalization is a particular challenge with a multi-brand strategy approach, in which the new brand takes business away from an established one which the organization also owns.
brand: Various forms of brand awareness can be identified.
brand: A positive brand image fosters trust among consumers, leading to increased loyalty and repeat purchases.
brand: Overall, a brand has the ability to strengthen brand equity by using IMC branding communications through touchpoints.
brand: The brand identity works as a guideline, as the frame in which a brand will evolve and define itself, or in the words of David Aaker, "…a unique set of brand associations that the brand strategist aspires to create or maintain."
brand: When shipping their items, the factories would literally brand their logo or company insignia on the barrels used, effectively using a corporate trademark as a quasi-brand.
brand: Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.211-6 states that "where an item in [a] solicitation is identified as "brand name or equal", the purchase description [should] reflect the characteristics and level of quality that will satisfy the Government's needs.
brand: Open Knowledge Foundation created in December 2013 the BSIN (Brand Standard Identification Number).
brand: Designer-private labels involve a collaborative contract between a well-known fashion designer and a retailer.
brand: A great brand raises the bar – it adds a greater sense of purpose to the experience, whether it's the challenge to do your best in sports and fitness, or the affirmation that the cup of coffee you're drinking really matters.
brand: Gillette catered to females with Gillette for Women which has now become known as Venus.
brand: Culture: The values, the principles on which a brand bases its behaviour.
brand: Making it the center of attention, while keeping it fresh.
brand: Two other ISO standards are being developed by ISO/TC 289:
brand: For example, Qantas, Australia's largest flag carrier airline, introduced Jetstar to go head-to-head against the low-cost carrier, Virgin Australia (formerly known as Virgin Blue).
brand: The oldest generic brand in continuous use, known in India since the Vedic period (c.
brand: Disruptor brands try to create a new market or utilize technology and innovation to transform the existing market.
brand: Most products have some kind of brand identity, from common table salt to designer jeans.
brand: In other words, a difference with the way consumers are and how they wish they were.
brand: In the European Middle Ages, heraldry developed a language of visual symbolism which would feed into the evolution of branding,
and with the rise of the merchant guilds the use of marks resurfaced and was applied to specific types of goods.
brand: Thus the name Unisys originated in 1986 when Burroughs bought and incorporated UNIVAC; and the newly named International Business Machines represented a broadening of scope in 1924 from its original name, the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company.
brand: Marketers typically identify two distinct types of brand awareness; namely brand recall (also known as unaided recall or occasionally spontaneous recall) and brand recognition (also known as aided brand recall).
brand: This level of brand awareness is stronger than brand recognition, as the brand must be firmly cemented in the consumer's memory to enable unassisted remembrance.
brand: One popular method of eWOM involves social networking sites (SNSs) such as Twitter.
brand: Images of the branding of cattle occur in ancient Egyptian tombs dating to around 2,700 BCE.
brand: One article suggests that other senses, apart from vision, need to be targeted when trying to communicate a brand with consumers.
brand: Brands whose value to consumers comes primarily from having identity value are said to be "identity brands".
brand: This may be acceptable (indeed to be expected) if there is a net gain overall.
brand: A vase manufactured around 490 BCE bears the inscription "Sophilos painted me", indicating that the object was both fabricated and painted by a single potter.
brand: The risk of over-extension is brand dilution where the brand loses its brand associations with a market segment, product area, or quality, price or cachet.
brand: The etymology of the word “brand” originates from the Old Norse word "brandr" from the 10th Century, which means “to burn".
brand: Integrated marketing communications (IMC) relates to how a brand transmits a clear consistent message to its stakeholders .
brand: A brand is a name, term, design, symbol or any other feature that distinguishes one seller's goods or service from those of other sellers.
brand: There are kinds of branding that treat individuals and organizations as the products to be branded.
brand: Specsavers has joined up with Sydney designer, Alex Perry to create an exclusive range of spectacle frames while Big W stocks frame designed by Peter Morrissey.
brand: Finally, the receiver retrieves the message and attempts to understand what the sender was aiming to render.
brand: Brand identity includes both the core identity and the extended identity.
brand: The most frequently quoted example is Intel, which positions itself in the PC market with the slogan (and sticker) "Intel Inside".
brand: This was an early commercial explanation of what scholars now recognize as modern branding and the beginnings of brand management.
brand: The main purpose of fighting brands is to challenge competitor brands.
brand: One well-documented early example of a highly developed brand is that of White Rabbit sewing needles, dating from China's Song dynasty (960 to 1127 CE).
brand: If a customer loves Pillsbury biscuits and trusts the brand, he or she is more likely to try other products offered by the company – such as chocolate-chip cookies, for example.
brand: The launching of Jetstar allowed Qantas to rival Virgin Australia without the criticism being affiliated with Qantas because of the distinct brand name.
brand: In contrast to brand recall, where few consumers are able to spontaneously recall brand names within a given category, when prompted with a brand name, a larger number of consumers are typically able to recognize it.
brand: Some approaches applied, such as an increasing importance on the symbolic value of products, have led countries to emphasize their distinctive characteristics.
brand: A multiproduct branding strategy has many advantages.
brand: In Australia, for example, the department store, Myer, now offers a range of exclusive designer private labels including Jayson Brundson, Karen Walker, Leona Edmiston, Wayne Cooper, Fleur Wood and 'L' for Lisa Ho.
brand: By the 13th century, the use of maker's marks had become evident on a broad range of goods.
brand: She has shown that amphorae used in Mediterranean trade between 1,500 and 500 BCE exhibited a wide variety of shapes and markings, which consumers used to glean information about the type of goods and the quality.
brand: English potters based at Colchester and Chichester used stamps on their ceramic wares by the 1st century CE.
brand: Any point where a customer has an interaction with the brand - whether watching a television advertisement, hearing about a brand through word of mouth or even noticing a branded license plate – defines a touchpoint.
brand: During the COVID-19 pandemic, 75% of US customers tried different stores, websites or brands, and 60% of those expect to integrate new brands or stores into their post-pandemic lives.
brand: They have over 100 soup flavours putting forward varieties such as regular Campbell soup, condensed, chunky, fresh-brewed, organic, and soup on the go.
brand: Although IMC is a broad strategic concept, the most crucial brand communication elements are pinpointed to how the brand sends a message and what touch points the brand uses to connect with its customers [Chitty 2005].
brand: This no-brand strategy means that little is spent on advertisement or classical marketing and Muji's success is attributed to the word-of-mouth, simple shopping experience and the anti-brand movement.
brand: Subbranding merges a corporate, family or umbrella brand with the introduction of a new brand in order to differentiate part of a product line from others in the whole brand system.
brand: The core identity reflects consistent long-term associations with the brand; whereas the extended identity involves the intricate details of the brand that help generate a constant motif.
brand: The OKFN Brand repository is critical for the Open Data movement.
brand: For example, Coca-Cola not only protects the brand name, Coca-Cola, but also protects the distinctive Spencerian script and the contoured shape of the bottle.
brand: The orientation of an entire organization towards its brand is called brand orientation.
brand: Michelin, one of the largest tire manufacturers allowed Sears, an American retail chain to place their brand name on the tires.
brand: These activities are often undertaken by governments, but can also result from the work of community associations.
brand: When a brand communicates a brand identity to a receiver, it runs the risk of the receiver incorrectly interpreting the message.
brand: Brand identity is what the owner wants to communicate to its potential consumers.
brand: Although, certain large multiband companies have come across that the cost and difficulty of implementing a multibranding strategy can overshadow the benefits.
brand: Aside from attributes and benefits, a brand's identity may also involve branding to focus on representing its core set of values.
brand: Nation branding is a field of theory and practice which aims to measure, build and manage the reputation of countries (closely related to place branding).
brand: Not doing so risks undermining the brand.
brand: A product line extension is the procedure of entering a new market segment in its product class by means of using a current brand name.
brand: In 1988, for example, Philip Morris Companies purchased Kraft Foods Inc.
brand: In this case, a strong brand name (or company name) becomes the vehicle for marketing a range of products (for example, Mercedes-Benz or Black & Decker) or a range of subsidiary brands (such as Cadbury Dairy Milk, Cadbury Flake, or Cadbury Fingers in the UK).
brand: Many companies believe that there is often little to differentiate between several types of products in the 21st century, hence branding is among a few remaining forms of product differentiation.
brand: However, a brand's attributes alone are not enough to persuade a customer into purchasing the product.
brand: The Destination Marketing Association International is the industry leading organization.
brand: Examples include:
brand: In the U.S., Toyota was regarded as a valuable car brand being economical, family orientated and known as a vehicle that rarely broke down.
brand: In recent years, branding has also emerged in the public sector, however, researchers in the field cautions against adopting a branding logic from the private sector.
brand: Top-of-mind awareness is a special case of brand recall.
brand: The brand is often intended to create an emotional response and recognition, leading to potential loyalty and repeat purchases.
brand: A brand name is the part of a brand that can be spoken or written and identifies a product, service or company and sets it apart from other comparable products within a category.
brand: Most NGOs and non-profit organizations carry their brand as a fundraising tool.
brand: Often, this form of brand awareness assists customers in choosing one brand over another when faced with a low-involvement purchasing decision.
brand: Joe Chemo campaign organized to criticize the marketing of tobacco products to children and their harmful effects.
brand: Brand extension is the system of employing a current brand name to enter a different product class.
brand: Marketers associate separate products or lines with separate brand names - such as Seven-Up, Kool-Aid, or Nivea Sun (Beiersdorf - which may compete against other brands from the same company (for example, Unilever owns Persil, Omo, Surf, and Lynx).
brand: "Behold!" – Making products and associated brand rituals reflect the essence of the brand mission and myth.
brand: An example of this is the Campbell Soup Company, primarily a producer of canned soups.
brand: When the company's trade name is used, multiproduct branding is also known as corporate branding, family branding or umbrella branding.
brand: The distinction(s) that set a product apart from the competition is/are also known as the unique selling point or USP.
brand: When Coca-Cola launched Diet Coke and Cherry Coke, they stayed within the originating product category: non-alcoholic carbonated beverages.
brand: Kimberly-Clark is a corporation that produces personal and health care products being able to extend the Huggies brand name across a full line of toiletries for toddlers and babies.
brand: The power of brands to communicate a complex message quickly, with emotional impact and with the ability of brands to attract media attention, makes them ideal tools in the hands of activists.
brand: This is in contrast to the brand image, which is a customer's mental picture of a brand.
brand: Private branding is popular because it typically produces high profits for manufacturers and resellers.
brand: These ancient societies imposed strict forms of quality-control over commodities, and also needed to convey value to the consumer through branding.
brand: Therefore, a brand should use appropriate communication channels to positively "…affect how the psychological and physical aspects of a brand are perceived".
brand: Brand valuation is a management technique that ascribes a monetary value to a brand.
brand: Private branding is when a company manufactures products but it is sold under the brand name of a wholesaler or retailer.
brand: In the commercial world, the intangible aspect of brand trust impacts the behavior and performance of its business stakeholders in many intriguing ways.
brand: Marketers generally began to realize that brands, to which personalities were attached, outsold rival brands.
brand: Challengers change the marketing or perception of the product or service being sold.
brand: The use of hallmarks, a type of brand, on precious metals dates to around the 4th century CE.
brand: Naomi Klein has described this development as "brand equity mania".
brand: These must be seen as legitimate and respected by consumers for stories to be accepted.
brand: This approach usually results in higher promotion costs and advertising.
brand: It creates the foundation of a strong brand connect with all stakeholders, converting simple awareness to strong commitment.
brand: The term stems from the combination of the German words doppel ('double') and gänger ('walker').
brand: David Wengrow has argued that branding became necessary following the urban revolution in ancient Mesopotamia in the 4th century BCE, when large-scale economies started mass-producing commodities such as alcoholic drinks, cosmetics and textiles.
brand: It capitalizes on brand equity as consumers that have a good experience with the product will in turn pass on this positive opinion to supplementary objects in the same product class as they share the same name.
brand: Roman marks or inscriptions were applied to a very wide variety of goods, including, pots, ceramics, amphorae (storage/shipping containers) and on factory-produced oil-lamps.
brand: Other brands which date from that era, such as Ben's Original rice and Kellogg's breakfast cereal, furnish illustrations of the trend.
brand: Examples would be the individual Kinder chocolates by Ferrero SpA, the subtypes of Coca-Cola, or special editions of popular brands.
brand: Examples are: Apple, Nike and Harley-Davidson.
brand: In the 2006 article "Emotional Branding and the Strategic Value of the Doppelgänger Brand Image", Thompson, Rindfleisch, and Arsel suggest that a doppelgänger brand image can be a benefit to a brand if taken as an early warning sign that the brand is losing emotional authenticity with its market.
brand: There is no risk that a product failure will affect other products in the line as each brand is unique to each market segment.
brand: Gatorade, a manufacturer of sport-themed food and beverages effectively introduced Gatorade G2, a low-calorie line of Gatorade drinks.
brand: When presented with a product at the point-of-sale, or after viewing its visual packaging, consumers are able to recognize the brand and may be able to associate it with attributes or meanings acquired through exposure to promotion or word-of-mouth referrals.
brand: BSIN is universal and is used by the Open Product Data Working Group  of the Open Knowledge Foundation to assign a brand to a product.
brand: When customers experience brand recognition, they are triggered by either a visual or verbal cue.
brand: Due to the ability of doppelgänger brands to rapidly propagate virally through digital media channels, they can represent a real threat to the equity of the target brand.
brand: "No brand" branding may be construed as a type of branding as the product is made conspicuous through the absence of a brand name.
brand: Although brand identity is a fundamental asset to a brand's equity, the worth of a brand's identity would become obsolete without ongoing brand communication.
brand: Forms of branding or proto-branding emerged spontaneously and independently throughout Africa, Asia and Europe at different times, depending on local conditions.
brand: When consumers perceive a brand positively, they are more likely to choose it over competitors.
brand: The systematic use of stamped labels dates from around the fourth century BCE.
brand: Challenger brands are categorized by a mindset that sees them have business ambitions beyond conventional resources and an intent to bring change to an industry.
brand: They allow us to be, to hold a mirror up to ourselves, and it is clear.
brand: LIQUAMEN/ OPTIMUM/ EX OFFICI[n]/A SCAURI (translated as: "The best liquamen, from the shop of Scaurus")
Scaurus' fish sauce was known by people across the Mediterranean to be of very high quality, and its reputation traveled as far away as modern France.
brand: The launch of Venus was conducted in order to fulfil the feminine market of the previously dominating masculine razor industry.
brand: Cultural conflict over a brand's meaning has also influences the diffusion of an innovation.
brand: For example, 3rd-century Gaulish pots bearing the names of well-known potters and the place of manufacture (such as Attianus of Lezoux, Tetturo of Lezoux and Cinnamus of Vichy) have been found as far away as Essex and Hadrian's Wall in England.
brand: Brand trust is the intrinsic 'believability' that any entity evokes.
brand: For example, if a brand consistently uses a pleasant smell as a primary touchpoint, the brand has a much higher chance of creating a positive lasting effect on its customers' senses as well as memory.
brand: Industrialization moved the production of many household items, such as soap, from local communities to centralized factories.
brand: Managing brands for value creation will often involve applying marketing-mix modeling techniques in conjunction with brand valuation.
brand: Private label brands, also called own brands, or store brands have become popular.
brand: Multibranding strategy has many advantages.
brand: In 1266, makers' marks on bread became compulsory in England.
brand: (2010), every touchpoint has the "…potential to add positive – or suppress negative – associations to the brand's equity" Thus, a brand's IMC should cohesively deliver positive messages through appropriate touch points associated with its target market.
brand: Virgin, a multination conglomerate uses the punk-inspired, handwritten red logo with the iconic tick for all its products ranging from airlines, hot air balloons, telecommunication to healthcare.
brand: We like what we see."
brand: Brand names are sometimes distinguished from generic or store brands.
brand: When given a cue, consumers able to retrieve the memory node associated with the brand exhibit brand recognition.
brand: These attributes must be communicated through benefits, which are more emotional translations.
brand: McKee (2014) also looked into brand communication and states that when communicating a brand, a company should look to simplify its message as this will lead to more value being portrayed as well as an increased chance of target consumers recalling and recognizing the brand.
brand: Diana Twede has argued that the "consumer packaging functions of protection, utility and communication have been necessary whenever packages were the object of transactions".
brand: Brand is product identity.
brand: The salient physical, functional, or performance characteristics that "equal" products must meet are [to be] specified in the solicitation.
brand: Such personality traits can assist marketers to create unique, brands that are differentiated from rival brands.
brand: By the 1880s, large manufacturers had learned to imbue their brands' identity with personality traits such as youthfulness, fun, sex appeal, luxury or the "cool" factor.
brand: According to Dahlen et al.
brand: Gradually, manufacturers began using personal identifiers to differentiate their goods from generic products on the market.
brand: Thus, the brand offers the customer a short-cut to understanding the different product or service offerings that make up a particular category.
brand: A name change may signal different ownership or new product directions.
brand: The term "brand name" is quite often used interchangeably with "brand", although it is more correctly used to specifically denote written or spoken linguistic elements of any product.
brand: In largely pre-literate society, the shape of the amphora and its pictorial markings conveyed information about the contents, region of origin and even the identity of the producer, which were understood to convey information about product quality.
brand: Examples of brand extension can be seen through Kimberly-Clark and Honda.
brand: For consumers, a brand name is a "memory heuristic": a convenient way to remember preferred product choices.
brand: Similarly, Toyota, an automobile manufacturer used mixed branding.
brand: In this case the supplier of a key component, used by a number of suppliers of the end-product, may wish to guarantee its own position by promoting that component as a brand in its own right.
brand: Brand orientation develops in response to market intelligence.
brand: Once the customer is visually or verbally faced with a brand, they may remember being introduced to it before.
brand: Brand recognition is often the mode of brand awareness that operates in retail shopping environments.
brand: Brand identity is distinct from brand image.
brand: NGOs and non-profit organizations moved beyond using their brands for fundraising to express their internal identity and to clarify their social goals and long-term aims.
brand: Therefore, a brand can become one of the most valuable elements in an advertising strategy as it demonstrates what the brand owner is able to offer in the marketplace.
brand: This source must encode the intended message in a way that the receiver will potentially understand.
brand: The use of identity marks on products declined following the fall of the Roman Empire.
brand: Wine jars, for example, were stamped with names, such as "Lassius" and "L.
brand: Research further found that the more consumers "retweeted" and communicated with a brand, the more they trusted the brand.
brand: "Cultural contradictions" – Some kind of mismatch between prevailing ideology and emergent undercurrents in society.
brand: One method of brand communication that companies can exploit involves electronic word-of-mouth (eWOM).
brand: The pricing of private brand product are usually cheaper compared to competing name brands.
brand: Mars extended its brand to ice cream, Caterpillar to shoes and watches, Michelin to a restaurant guide, Adidas and Puma to personal hygiene.
brand: Thus radiating the brand myth from the inside out, consistently and through all brand manifestations.
brand: eWOM is a relatively new approach [Phelps et al., 2004] identified to communicate with consumers.
brand: Amnesty International, Habitat for Humanity, World Wildlife Fund and AIESEC are among the most recognized brands around the world.
brand: Thus, brand recall is a confirmation that previous branding touchpoints have successfully fermented in the minds of its consumers.
brand: There is a difference between brand extension and line extension.
brand: Other multibrand companies introduce new product brands as a protective measure to respond to competition called fighting brands or fighter brands.
brand: Corporate name-changes offer particularly stark examples of branding-related decisions.
brand: In 1876, its red-triangle brand became the first registered trademark issued by the British government.
brand: Nevertheless, brand extension has its disadvantages.
brand: Having a strong brand equity allows for brand extension; for example, many fashion and designer companies extended brands into fragrances, shoes and accessories, home textile, home decor, luggage, (sun-) glasses, furniture, hotels, etc.
brand: Brand development, often performed by a design team, takes time to produce.
brand: Some brands still in existence as of 2018 date from the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries' period of mass-production.
brand: Private branding (also known as reseller branding, private labelling, store brands, or own brands) have increased in popularity.
brand: One way a company can do this involves choosing a product or service's brand name, as this name will need to be suitable for the marketplace that it aims to enter.
brand: It became apparent that a generic package of soap had difficulty competing with familiar, local products.
brand: From the perspective of brand owners, branded products or services can command higher prices.
brand: For example, Google flexible office hours and fun environment so the employees feel happy and creative at work.
brand: Examples of companies that use corporate branding are Microsoft, Samsung, Apple, and Sony as the company's brand name is identical to their trade name.
brand: Tiffany & Co.'s trademarked the color in 1998.
brand: Even more extensive than its perceived values is a brand's personality.
brand: For example, Elizabeth Arden, Inc., a major American cosmetics and fragrance company, uses mixed branding strategy.
brand: sounds: a unique tune or set of notes can denote a brand.
brand: By the 1940s, manufacturers began to recognize the way in which consumers had started to develop relationships with their brands in a social/psychological/anthropological sense.
brand: Disruptors change the actual product or service being sold.
brand: Business analysts reported that what they really purchased was the brand name.
brand: "Living the Dream" – Living the brand mission as an organization and through its actions.
brand: That is, customers will not consider a brand if they are not aware of it.
brand: For example, a brand may recognize that advertising touchpoints are most effective during the pre-purchase experience stage therefore they may target their advertisements to new customers rather than to existing customers.
brand: Carbonized loaves of bread, found at Herculaneum, indicate that some bakers stamped their bread with the producer's name.
brand: A brand name is not to be confused with a trademark which refers to the brand name or part of a brand that is legally protected.
brand: "Necessary conditions" – The performance of the product must at least be acceptable, preferably with a reputation of having good quality.
brand: Exactly how the company name relates to product and services names forms part of a brand architecture.
brand: Brands help customers to understand which brands or products belong to which product or service category.
brand: Today, brands play a much bigger role.
brand: Multibranding is used in an assortment of ways with selected companies grouping their brands based on price-quality segments.
brand: 1100 BCE to 500 BCE), is the herbal paste known as chyawanprash, consumed for its purported health benefits and attributed to a revered rishi (or seer) named Chyawan.
brand: Intellectual property infringements, in particular counterfeiting, can affect consumer trust and ultimately damage brand equity.
brand: Marketers or product managers responsible for branding seek to develop or align the expectations behind the brand experience.
brand: ISO/AWI 23353 Brand evaluation - Guidelines for brands relating to geographical indications 
ISO/AWI 24051 Brand evaluation - Guide for the annual brand evaluation.
brand: In IMC, channels may include media elements such as advertising, public relations, sales promotions, etc.
brand: If a person stole any of the cattle, anyone else who saw the symbol could deduce the actual owner.
brand: This gives the company huge advantage over its competitors because the customer is already willing to buy or at least know the company offering available in the market.
brand: As suggested Figure 2, certain touch points link with a specific stage in customer-brand-involvement.
brand: Another up-market department store, David Jones, currently offers 'Collette' for leading Australian designer, Collette Dinnigan, and has recently announced its intention to extend the number of exclusive designer brands.
brand: One methodology involves using sensory stimuli touch points to activate customer emotion.
brand: For example, in the United States, Paragon Trade Brands, Ralcorp Holdings, and Rayovac are major suppliers of diapers, grocery products, and private label alkaline batteries, correspondingly.
brand: It is at this point where the message can often deter from its original purpose as the message must go through the process of being decoded, which can often lead to unintended misinterpretation.
brand: They utilize a multiproduct branding strategy by way of soup line extensions.
brand: Consumers may look on branding as an aspect of products or services, as it often serves to denote a certain attractive quality or characteristic (see also brand promise).
brand: Five key components comprise IMC:
brand: Advertising spokespersons have also become part of some brands, for example: Mr.
brand: Color is a particularly important element of visual brand identity and color mapping provides an effective way of ensuring color contributes to differentiation in a visually cluttered marketplace.
brand: 13 One of the most well-known is co-branding, a strategy in which two firms combine their brands into a single product.
brand: A brand owner may seek to protect proprietary rights in relation to a brand name through trademark registration – such trademarks are called "Registered Trademarks".
brand: Soap manufacturers sponsored many of the earliest radio drama series, and the genre became known as soap opera.
brand: There are four key elements to creating iconic brands (Holt 2004):
brand: Iconic brands are defined as having aspects that contribute to consumer's self-expression and personal identity.
brand: The match-up between the product, the consumer lifestyle, and the endorser is important for the effectiveness of brand communication.
brand: Other examples of multiproduct branding strategy include Virgin and Church & Dwight.
brand: – Howard Schultz (President, CEO, and Chairman of Starbucks)
brand: Factories established following the Industrial Revolution introduced mass-produced goods and needed to sell their products to a wider market—that is, to customers previously familiar only with locally produced goods.
brand: For example, Disney successfully branded its particular script font (originally created for Walt Disney's "signature" logo), which it used in the logo for go.com.
brand: Marketing-mix modeling can help marketing leaders optimize how they spend marketing budgets to maximize the impact on brand awareness or on sales.
brand: Producers began by attaching simple stone seals to products which, over time, gave way to clay seals bearing impressed images, often associated with the producer's personal identity thus giving the product a personality.
brand: This means that building a strong brand helps to distinguish a product from similar ones and sets it apart from competitors.
brand: In ancient Rome, a commercial brand or inscription applied to objects offered for sale was known as a titulus pictus.
brand: Marketing labeled as attitude branding include that of Nike, Starbucks, The Body Shop, Safeway and Apple.
brand: "Myth-making" – A meaningful storytelling fabricated by cultural insiders.
brand: Therefore, when looking to communicate a brand with chosen consumers, companies should investigate a channel of communication that is most suitable for their short-term and long-term aims and should choose a method of communication that is most likely to reach their target consumers.
brand: Decisions about company names and product names and their relationship depend on more than a dozen strategic considerations.
brand: Instead 'growing with gravitas' by leveraging scarcity/high prices, 'sideways expansion' and other means.
brand: Each form reflects a different stage in a customer's cognitive ability to address the brand in a given circumstance.
brand: Over time, purchasers realized that the brand provided information about origin as well as about ownership, and could serve as a guide to quality.
brand: Details in the image show a white rabbit crushing herbs, and text includes advice to shoppers to look for the stone white rabbit in front of the maker's shop.
brand: which sets the brand aside from others.
brand: The FUH2 campaign protesting the Hummer SUV as a symbol of corporate and public irresponsibility toward public safety and the environment.
brand: Brand recognition is most successful when people can elicit recognition without being explicitly exposed to the company's name, but rather through visual signifiers like logos, slogans, and colors.
brand: For example, in 2017, Louis Vuitton partnered with the skateboarding brand Supreme.
brand: Stamps were used on bricks, pottery, and storage containers as well as on fine ceramics.
brand: Subsequent research studies have suggested that Aaker's dimensions of brand personality are relatively stable across different industries, market segments and over time.
brand: Consequently, the multiproduct branding strategy makes product line extension possible.
brand: "Un-Selling" – First and foremost seeking to seduce through pride and provocation, rather than to sell through arguments.
brand: The process of giving a brand "human" characteristics represented, at least in part, a response to consumer concerns about mass-produced goods.
brand: In so doing, social media brands are arguably more charismatic, in that consumers are compelled to spend time with them, because the time spent is in the meeting of fundamental human drivers related to belonging and individualism.
brand: The experiential aspect consists of the sum of all points of contact with the brand and is termed the consumer's brand experience.
brand: When a customer is familiar with a brand or favors it incomparably over its competitors, a corporation has reached a high level of brand equity.
brand: In the modern era, the concept of branding has expanded to include deployment by a manager of the marketing and communication techniques and tools that help to distinguish a company or products from competitors, aiming to create a lasting impression in the minds of customers.
brand: Slogans, mascots, and jingles began to appear on radio in the 1920s and in early television in the 1930s.
brand: Line extensions work at their best when they deliver an increase in company revenue by enticing new buyers or by removing sales from competitors.
brand: For example, a jingle or background music can have a positive effect on brand recognition, purchasing behaviour and brand recall.
brand: A brandnomer is a brand name that has colloquially become a generic term for a product or service, such as Band-Aid, Nylon, or Kleenex—which are often used to describe any brand of adhesive bandage; any type of hosiery; or any brand of facial tissue respectively.
brand: Much of the literature on branding suggests that consumers prefer brands with personalities that are congruent with their own.
brand: Brand awareness involves a customer's ability to recall and/or recognize brands, logos, and branded advertising.
brand: Strong branded campaigns for Chrysler and Exxon/Esso, using insights drawn from research into psychology and cultural anthropology, led to some of the most enduring campaigns of the 20th century.
brand: Twinings tea has used the same logo –  capitalized font beneath a lion crest –  since 1787, making it the world's oldest in continuous use.
brand: Disruptor brands ignore the market leader.
brand: The Italians used brands in the form of watermarks on paper in the 13th century.
brand: Bass Brewery, the British brewery founded in 1777, became a pioneer in international brand marketing.
brand: Such as warranties or services during and after purchase help maintain a sustainable relationship and keep the consumer trust.
brand: Many iconic brands include almost ritual-like behaviour in purchasing or consuming the products.
brand: Firstly, a source/sender wishes to convey a message to a receiver.
brand: Because the identity is assembled by the brand owner, it reflects how the owner wants the consumer to perceive the brand – and by extension the branded company, organization, product or service.
brand: The brand experience is a brand's action perceived by a person.
brand: The success of this brand extension strategy is apparent in the $500 million in annual sales generated globally.
brand: Branding probably began with the practice of branding livestock to deter theft.
brand: According to Kapferer (2004), there are six facets to a brand's identity:
brand: This trend continued to the 1980s, and as of 2018 is quantified by marketers in concepts such as brand value and brand equity.
brand: Physique: The physical characteristics and iconography of your brand (such as the Nike swoosh or the orange pantone of easyJet).
brand: These include:
brand: attributes
benefits
values
personality
A brand's attributes are a set of labels with which the corporation wishes to be associated.
brand: With the rise of mass media in the early 20th century, companies adopted techniques that allowed their messages to stand out.
brand: "Tapa Amarilla" or "Yellow Cap" in Venezuela during the 1980s is another good example of no-brand strategy.
brand: "From Myth To Meaning" – Leveraging the power of myth – 'Ueber-Stories' that have fascinated- and guided humans forever.
brand: US government purchasing rules allow for federal departments to seek bids using a "brand name or equal" provision in their solicitation.
brand: This approach is seen as favourable as it can result in lower promotion costs and advertising due to the same name being used on all products, therefore increasing the level of brand awareness.
brand: The final stage of this process is when the receiver responds to the message, which is received by the original sender as feedback.
brand: Jetstar is an Australian low-cost airline for budget conscious travellers, but it receives many negative reviews due to this.
brand: Relationship: The bond between a brand and its customers, and the customer expectations of the brand (the experience beyond the tangible product).
brand: Brand image refers to the perception consumers have about a brand, shaped by their interactions, experiences, and beliefs regarding the brand's products or services.
brand: Dunlop extended its brand from tires to other rubber products such as shoes, golf balls, tennis racquets, and adhesives.
brand: Careful brand management seeks to make products or services relevant and meaningful to a target audience.
brand: NBC's chimes provide a famous example.
brand: Putting a value on a brand by brand valuation or using marketing mix modeling techniques is distinct to valuing a trademark.
brand: (2009), a brand's identity may deliver 4 levels of meaning:
brand: G[ari] F[los] SCOM[bri]/ SCAURI (translated as: "The flower of garum, made of the mackerel, a product of Scaurus")
4.
brand: This suggests that a company could look to employ a social-media campaign to gain consumer trust and loyalty as well as in the pursuit of communicating brand messages.
brand: A study found that consumers classed their relationship with a brand as closer if that brand was active on a specific social media site (Twitter).
brand: Around 1900, advertising guru James Walter Thompson published a housing advertisement explaining trademark advertising.
brand: Individual brand names naturally allow greater flexibility by permitting a variety of different products, of differing quality, to be sold without confusing the consumer's perception of what
business the company is in or diluting higher quality products.
brand: Reflection: The "stereotypical user" of the brand.
brand: In both Pompeii and nearby Herculaneum, archaeological evidence also points to evidence of branding and labeling in relatively common use across a broad range of goods.
brand: Both retailer and designer collaborate to design goods with popular appeal pitched at price points that fit the consumer's budget.
brand: Touch points represent the channel stage in the traditional communication model, where a message travels from the sender to the receiver.
brand: The company sells its Elizabeth Arden brand through department stores and line of skin care products at Walmart with the "skin simple" brand name.
brand: Archaeological evidence of potters' stamps has been found across the breadth of the Roman Empire and in ancient Greece.
brand: Parody of the Pepsi logo as an obese man to highlight the relationship between soft drink consumption and obesity.
brand: "We wear our physical brands like badges, to help define us – but we use our digital brands to help express who we are.
brand: Pears' soap, Campbell's soup, Coca-Cola, Juicy Fruit chewing gum and Aunt Jemima pancake mix were also among the first products to be "branded" in an effort to increase the consumer's familiarity with the product's merits.
brand: For example, Unilever, the world's third-largest multination consumer goods company recently streamlined its brands from over 400 brands to center their attention onto 14 brands with sales of over 1 billion euros.
brand: LIQU[minis]/ FLOS (translated as: "The flower of Liquamen")
3.
brand: It's the impression that resides in the minds of consumers, influencing their purchasing decisions and loyalty.
brand: scents: the rose-jasmine-musk scent of Chanel No.
brand: If brands can find ways to help people feel empowered and regain a sense of control in uncertain times, they can help people reconnect and heal (and be appreciated for it).
brand: Some of the earliest use of maker's marks, dating to about 1,300 BCE, have been found in India.
brand: For a company to exude a strong sense of brand identity, it must have an in-depth understanding of its target market, competitors and the surrounding business environment.
brand: Advertisers began to use motivational research and consumer research to gather insights into consumer purchasing.
brand: Strategic awareness occurs when a brand is not only top-of-mind to consumers, but also has distinctive qualities which consumers perceive as making it better than other brands in the particular market.
brand: DBI targets tend to be widely known and recognizable brands.
brand: The purpose of DBIs is to undermine the positive brand meanings the brand owners are trying to instill through their marketing activities.
brand: They use private branding strategy to specifically target consumer markets.
brand: The art of creating and maintaining a brand is called brand management.
brand: The brand owner will seek to bridge the gap between the brand image and the brand identity.
brand: Examples include the Japanese company Muji, which means "No label" in English (from 無印良品 – "Mujirushi Ryohin" – literally, "No brand quality goods"), and the Florida company No-Ad Sunscreen.
brand: Although, line extension has potential negative outcomes with one being that other items in the company's line may be disadvantaged because of the sale of the extension.
brand: Instead, it is important to have brand equity which is "the perception that a good or service with a given brand name is different, better, and can be trusted" according to Kenneth E Clow.
brand: Designer Private Labels
A relatively recent innovation in retailing is the introduction of designer private labels.
brand: Thus, this form of brand identification attracts customers who also share this same value.
brand: The purpose of most NGOs is to leave a social impact so their brand becomes associated with specific social life matters.
brand: They derived them from studying successful modern Prestige brands and what elevates them above mass competitors and beyond considerations of performance and price (alone) in the minds of consumers:
brand: Scholarly studies have found evidence of branding, packaging, and labeling in antiquity.
brand: Unilever accomplished this through product deletion and sales to other companies.
brand: The mosaic depicts four different amphora, one at each corner of the atrium, and bearing labels as follows:
brand: Their goal is to create the impression that a brand associated with a product or service has certain qualities or characteristics which make it special or unique.
brand: Brand owners manage their brands carefully to create shareholder value.
brand: Other examples of mixed branding strategy include Michelin, Epson, Microsoft, Gillette, and Toyota.
brand: Brand identity is fundamental to consumer recognition and symbolizes the brand's differentiation from competitors.
brand: Brands are studied in business, marketing, and advertising and used for recognition and, importantly, to create and store value as brand equity for the object identified, to the benefit of the brand's customers, its owners and shareholders.
brand: Brand protection is the set of preventive, monitoring and reactive measures taken by brand owners to eliminate, reduce or mitigate  these infringements and their effect.
brand: A challenger brand is a brand in an industry where it is neither the market leader nor a niche brand.
brand: A brand name may include words, phrases, signs, symbols, designs, or any combination of these elements.
brand: Most recently, some brands have engaged in unconventional brand collaborations, partnering with other brands or designers with a significantly different design, esthetic, positioning or set of values.
brand: Many years before 1855, Bass applied a red triangle to casks of its pale ale.
brand: Often, a message may be incorrectly received due to noise in the market, which is caused by "…unplanned static or distortion during the communication process".
brand: A characteristic feature of 19th-century mass-marketing was the widespread use of branding, originating with the advent of packaged goods.
brand: Frequently, the product is no different from what else is on the market, except a brand name marking.
brand: Target Australia has teamed up with Dannii Minogue to produce her "Petites" range.
brand: Brands came to embrace a performance or benefit promise, for the product, certainly, but eventually also for the company behind the brand.
brand: "Mission Incomparable" – Having a differentiated and meaningful brand purpose beyond 'making money.'  Setting rules that follow this purpose – even when it violates the mass marketing mantra of "Consumer is always Boss/right".
brand: Consumers may distinguish the psychological aspect (brand associations like thoughts, feelings, perceptions, images, experiences, beliefs, attitudes, and so on that become linked to the brand) of a brand from the experiential aspect.
brand: Branding was adapted by farmers, potters, and traders for use on other types of goods such as pottery and ceramics.
brand: Brand advertisers began to imbue goods and services with a personality, based on the insight that consumers searched for brands with personalities that matched their own.
brand: Brand awareness is a key step in the customer's purchase decision process, since some kind of awareness is a precondition to purchasing.
brand: In the 1999 book No Logo, Naomi Klein describes attitude branding as a "fetish strategy".
brand: Schaefer and Kuehlwein analyzed brands such as Apple, Ben & Jerry's or Chanel describing them as 'Ueber-Brands' – brands that are able to gain and retain "meaning beyond the material."
brand: Microsoft, a multinational technology company is seriously regarded as a corporate technology brand but it sells its versatile home entertainment hub under the brand Xbox to better align with the new and crazy identity.
brand: Where the retailer has a particularly strong identity (such as Marks & Spencer in the United Kingdom clothing sector) this "own brand" may be able to compete against even the strongest brand leaders, and may outperform those products that are not otherwise strongly branded.
brand: Brand collaborations are short-lived or ephemeral "partnerships between brands in which their images, legacies and values intertwine."p.
brand: Rather than being given a choice of multiple brands to satisfy a need, consumers are faced with a need first, and then must recall a brand from their memory to satisfy that need.
brand: Advertising
Sales promotions
Direct marketing
Personal selling
Public relations
The effectiveness of a brand's communication is determined by how accurately the customer perceives the brand's intended message through its IMC.
brand: The inscription typically specified information such as place of origin, destination, type of product and occasionally quality claims or the name of the manufacturer.
brand: For example, when someone is asked to name a type of facial tissue, the common answer, "Kleenex", will represent a top-of-mind brand.
brand: Costco, Walmart, RadioShack, Sears and Kroger are large retailers that have their own brand names.
brand: Most companies aim for "Top-of-Mind" which occurs when a brand pops into a consumer's mind when asked to name brands in a product category.
brand: When communicating a brand, a company needs to be aware that they must not just visually communicate their brand message and should take advantage of portraying their message through multi-sensory information.
brand: 'ISO 10668:2010'   Brand valuation - Requirements for monetary brand valuation ,
 'ISO 20671:2021'   Brand evaluation - Principles and fundamentals .
brand: One can analyze the traditional communication model into several consecutive steps:
brand: A series of five marks occurs on Byzantine silver dating from this period.
brand: According to Kotler et al.
brand: For example, when looking to satisfy a category need such as a toilet paper, the customer would firstly be presented with multiple brands to choose from.
brand: Brand awareness is a key component in understanding the effectiveness both of a brand's identity and of its communication methods.
brand: After the encoding stage, the forming of the message is complete and is portrayed through a selected channel.
brand: Branding may have been necessary to support the extensive trade in such pots.
brand: Brand equity is the measurable totality of a brand's worth and is validated by observing the effectiveness of these branding components.
brand: For instance, Head & Shoulders that helps consumers relieve dandruff in the form of a shampoo, Oral-B which offers inter-dental products, Vicks which offers cough and cold products, and Downy which offers dryer sheets and fabric softeners.
brand: Another way a brand can ensure that it is utilizing the best communication channel is by focusing on touchpoints that suit particular areas associated with customer experience.
brand: Similarly, Honda using their reputable name for automobiles has spread to other products such as motorcycles, power equipment, engines, robots, aircraft, and bikes.
brand: Consumers are commonly deterred by these prices in good economic circumstances, as it sets a perception of lower quality and standard, but this view shifts in less ideal economic circumstances.
brand: for six times what the company was worth on paper.
brand: For example, Lou Yetu and the Parisian chic profile.
brand: There is a risk that too many uses for one brand name can oversaturate the market resulting in a blurred and weak brand for consumers.
brand: Whipple of Charmin toilet tissue and Tony the Tiger of Kellogg's Frosted Flakes.
brand: Likewise, Porsche, a specialized automobile manufacturer successfully markets its lower-end line, Porsche Boxster and higher-end line, Porsche Carrera.
brand: Brands assist customers to understand the constellation of benefits offered by individual brands, and how a given brand within a category is differentiated from its competing brands, and thus the brand helps customers & potential customers understand which brand satisfies their needs.
brand: The branding and image of a nation-state "and the successful transference of this image to its exports – is just as important as what they actually produce and sell."
brand: When brand parity operates, quality is often not a major concern because consumers believe that only minor quality differences exist.
brand: This is due to the company being required to generate awareness among consumers and retailers for each new brand name without the benefit of any previous impressions.
brand: Mosaic patterns in the atrium of his house feature images of amphorae bearing his personal brand and quality claims.
brand: Organizational brands have well-determined brand guidelines and logo variables.
brand: It came to also mean the mark from burning with a branding iron.
brand: Companies such as Whirlpool, Del Monte, and Dial produce private brands of home appliances, pet foods, and soap, correspondingly.
brand: In Australia, their leading supermarket chains, both Woolworths and Coles are saturated with store brands (or private labels).
brand: Although there is a distinct Muji brand, Muji products are not branded.
brand: The key components that form a brand's toolbox include a brand's identity, personality, product design, brand communication (such as by logos and trademarks), brand awareness, brand loyalty, and various branding (brand management) strategies.
brand: By the early 1900s, trade press publications, advertising agencies, and advertising experts began producing books and pamphlets exhorting manufacturers to bypass retailers and to advertise directly to consumers with strongly branded messages.
brand: These types of awareness operate in entirely different ways with important implications for marketing strategy and advertising.
brand: Some of these brands have such a strong identity that they become more or less cultural icons which makes them "iconic brands".
brand: Eumachius"; probably references to the name of the producer.
brand: A line extension is when a current brand name is used to enter a new market segment in the existing product class, with new varieties or flavors or sizes.
brand: For example, Nike's brand represents the value of a "just do it" attitude.
brand: Alternatively, it may be the price the organization is willing to pay for shifting its position in the market; the new product being one stage in this process.
brand: Brand communication is important in ensuring brand success in the business world and refers to how  businesses transmit their brand messages, characteristics and attributes to their consumers.
brand: Personality: The persona, how a brand communicates with their audience, which is expressed through its tone of voice, design assets and then integrates this into communication touchpoints in a coherent way.
brand: Procter & Gamble, a multinational consumer goods company that offers over 100 brands, each suited for different consumer needs.
brand: A brand is likely to be purchased by several buyer's profiles but they will have a go-to person that they use in their campaigns.
brand: Pottery marking had become commonplace in ancient Greece by the 6th century BCE.
brand: It was simply recognized by the color of the cap of this cleaning products company.
brand: It is important that if a company wishes to develop a global market, the company name will also need to be suitable in different cultures and not cause offense or be misunderstood.
brand: Brand recognition (also known as aided brand recall) refers to consumers' ability to correctly differentiate a brand when they come into contact with it.
brand: Church & Dwight, a manufacturer of household products displays the Arm & Hammer family brand name for all its products containing baking soda as the main ingredient.
brand: But Toyota sought out to fulfil a higher end, expensive market segment, thus they created Lexus, the luxury vehicle division of premium cars.
brand: Schaefer and Kuehlwein propose the following 'Ueber-Branding' principles.
brand: Subbranding assists to articulate and construct offerings.
brand: If a company is seen to symbolize specific values, it will, in turn, attract customers who also believe in these values.
brand: The term "brand" has been extended to mean a strategic personality for a product or company, so that "brand" now suggests the values and promises that a consumer may perceive and buy into.
brand: Packaged-goods manufacturers needed to convince the market that the public could place just as much trust in the non-local product.
brand: If a brand's attribute is being environmentally friendly, customers will receive the benefit of feeling that they are helping the environment by associating with the brand.
brand: Instead, public organisations need to carefully adapt branding concepts and models to suit a public context.
brand: One merchant that made good use of the titulus pictus was Umbricius Scaurus, a manufacturer of fish sauce (also known as garum) in Pompeii, c.
brand: Cranfield management professor Christopher Martin has referred to research confirming that consumers choose from a "portfolio of brands", and that factors such as availability will be a major determinant of actual choice.
brand: AirBNB has created the facility for users to create their own symbol for the software to replace the brand's mark known as The Bélo.
brand: Guinness World Records recognizes Tate & Lyle (of Lyle's Golden Syrup) as Britain's, and the world's, oldest branding and packaging, with its green-and-gold packaging having remained almost unchanged since 1885.
brand: Xerox, for example, has become synonymous with the word "copy".
brand: G(ari) F(los) SCO[m]/ SCAURI/ EX OFFI[ci]/NA SCAU/RI (translated as: "The flower of garum, made of the mackerel, a product of Scaurus, from the shop of Scaurus")
2.
brand: Challenger brands target the market leader.
brand: Therefore, businesses research consumer's brand associations.
brand: Procter & Gamble did likewise extending its strong lines (such as Fairy Soap) into neighboring products (Fairy Liquid and Fairy Automatic) within the same category, dish washing detergents.
brand: Other examples include Coca-Cola, Nestlé, Kellogg's, and Mars.
