budget: Revenues are made up of taxes and other duties that the government levies.
budget: The first budget of India was submitted on 18 February 1860 by James Wilson.
budget: Conditional budgeting is a budgeting approach designed for companies with fluctuating income, high fixed costs, or income depending on sunk costs, as well as NPOs and NGOs.
budget: Nearly all American states are required to have balanced budgets, but the federal government is allowed to run deficits.
budget: This process of budget takes into account the end results.
budget: There are several methods and tools available for creating, using, and adjusting a personal budget.
budget: In the field of commerce, a budget is also a financial document or report that details the cost that a service will have if performed.
budget: The project budget is often broken down into specific tasks, with task budgets assigned to each.
budget: A third category (other than income and expenses) may be assets (such as property, investments, or other savings or value) representing a potential reserve for funds in case of budget shortfalls.
budget: Performance budget – it is mostly used by organization and ministries involved in the development activities.
budget: The master budget  aggregates these all.
budget: Capital budget – used to determine whether an organization's long-term investments such as new machinery, replacement machinery, new plants, new products, and research development projects are worth pursuing.
budget: Cash flow/cash budget – a prediction of future cash receipts and expenditures for a particular time period.
budget: A cost estimate is used to establish a project budget.
budget: Personal budget – A budget type focusing on expenses for self or for home, usually involves an income to budget.
budget: The present Indian Finance minister is Nirmala Sitharaman.
budget: Support and management functions may be revisited, and the resultant "fixed" costs, such as rent and payroll, will be adjusted - at a minimum for inflation.
budget: P C Mahalanobis is known as the father of Indian budget.
budget: Under all approaches expected sales or revenue, is typically the starting point;  this will be based on the business' planning for the period in question.
budget: There are two types of budget bill veto: the line-item veto and the veto of the whole budget.
budget: The dictionary definition of budget at Wiktionary
 Media related to Budget at Wikimedia Commons
 Quotations related to Budget at Wikiquote
Origin of the word
budget: It is thus a key element in integrated business planning, with measurable targets correspondingly devolved to departmental managers (and becoming KPIs);
budgets may then also specify non-cash resources, such as staff or time.
budget: The budget of a government is a summary or plan of the anticipated resources (often but not always from taxes) and expenditures of that government.
budget: The budget is prepared by the Budget Division  Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance annually.
budget: The Budget includes supplementary excess grants and when a proclamation by the President as to failure of Constitutional machinery is in operation in relation to a State or a Union Territory, preparation of the Budget of such State.
budget: Directly related elements and costs are typically linked to these (activity based costing may be employed).
budget: See Financial forecast, Cash flow forecast, Financial modeling § Accounting.
budget: Appropriation budget – a maximum amount is established for certain expenditure based on management judgement.
budget: A personal budget or home budget is a finance plan that allocates future personal income towards expenses, savings and debt repayment.
budget: Each of them provides a money flow to the corresponding revenue budget levels.
budget: There are three types of government budgets: the operating or current budget, the capital or investment budget, and the cash or cash flow budget.
budget: Here, if the actual figures delivered come close to those budgeted, this suggests that managers understand their business and have been successful in delivering.
budget: Various countries and unions have created four types of tax jurisdictions: interstate, state, local and tax jurisdictions with a special status (Free-trade zones).
budget: The production budget also estimates the various costs involved with manufacturing those units, including labor and material.
budget: The GAB will go through budget deliberations and voting; the same process occurs when the GAB is transmitted to the Philippine Senate.
budget: A budget may express a surplus, providing resources for use at a future time, or a deficit in which expenditures exceed income or other resources.
budget: Zero based budgeting takes more time to create as all pieces of the budget need to be reviewed by management.
budget: Preparing a budget allows companies, authorities, private entities or families to establish priorities and evaluate the achievement of their objectives.
budget: Created by product oriented companies.
budget: in mining,
 
this may be quarterly - 
the monitoring is ongoing, with financial and operational adjustments (or interventions) made as warranted; see Financial risk management § Corporate finance for further discussion.
budget: Invariably, Congress makes many and substantial changes.
budget: Flexibility budget – it is established for fixed cost and variable rate is determined per activity measure for variable cost.
budget: The responsibility usually sits within the company's financial management area in general, sometimes, specifically in "FP&A".
budget: These costs include labour, materials, and other related expenses.
budget: A budget is a calculation plan, usually but not always financial, for a defined period, often one year or a month.
budget: Marketing budget – an estimate of the funds needed for promotion, advertising, and public relations in order to market the product or service.
budget: Revenue budget – consists of revenue receipts of government and the expenditure met from these revenues.
budget: Expenditure budget – includes spending data items.
budget: Past spending and personal debt are considered when creating a personal budget.
budget: The federal budget is prepared by the Office of Management and Budget, and submitted to Congress for consideration.
budget: A second observation is that managers' thinking may emphasize short term, operational thinking at the expense of a long term and strategic perspective, particularly when  bonus payments are linked to budget.
budget: This type of budget has a clear advantage when the limited resources are to be allocated carefully and objectively.
budget: A budget expresses intended expenditures along with proposals for how to meet them with resources.
budget: Criticism is sometimes directed at the nature of budgeting, and its impact on the organization.
budget: See  Strategic planning § Strategic planning vs.
budget: Zero based budget – A budget type where every item added to the budget needs approval and no items are carried forward from the prior years budget.
budget: Incremental budgeting starts with the budget from the previous period, while under zero-based budgeting activities/costs are included only if justified.
budget: The cash flow budget helps the business to determine when income will be sufficient to cover expenses and when the company will need to seek outside financing.
budget: The Department of Budget and Management (DBM) prepares the National Expenditure Program and forwards it to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives to come up with a General Appropriations Bill (GAB).
budget: The  budgeting process requires considerable effort,
 
often involving dozens of staff; 
final sign-off resides with both the financial director and operations director.
budget: The budget of a business, division, or corporation
budget: Whereas the budget is typically compiled on an annual basis 
- although, e.g.
budget: It is used to create company and sales goals.
budget: is a financial forecast for the near-term future, usually the next accounting period, aggregating the expected revenues and expenses of the various departments – operations, human resources, IT, etc.
budget: Organisations may produce  functional budgets, relating to activities, and / or cash budgets, focused on receipts and payments.
budget: Project budget – a prediction of the costs associated with a particular company project.
budget: It usually covers a period in the short-term future.
budget: The Finance Minister is the head of the budget making committee.
budget: Capital expenditure, both new investments and maintenance, may be budgeted separately;
debt servicing and repayments likewise.
budget: For example, jobs are an income source, while bills and rent payments are expenses.
budget: financial planning.
budget: Professionals employed in this role are often designated "Budget Analyst", 
a specialized financial analyst function.
budget: A budget may include anticipated sales volumes and revenues, resource quantities including time, costs and expenses, environmental impacts such as greenhouse gas emissions, other impacts, assets, liabilities and cash flows.
budget: Production budget – an estimate of the number of units that must be manufactured to meet the sales goals.
budget: Whoever makes the budget must adhere to it and cannot change it if the client accepts the service.
budget: On the other hand, if the figures diverge this sends an "out of control" signal; 
additionally, the share price could suffer where these figures have been communicated to analysts.
budget: To achieve these goals it may be necessary to incur a deficit (expenses exceed income) or, on the contrary, it may be possible to save, in which case the budget will present a surplus (income exceed expenses).
budget: Companies, governments, families, and other organizations use budgets to express strategic plans of activities in measurable terms.
budget: After both houses of Congress approves the GAB, the President signs the bill into a General Appropriations Act (GAA); also, the President may opt to veto the GAB and have it returned to the legislative branch or leave the bill unsigned for 30 days and lapse into law.
