canada: At the federal level, Canada has been dominated by two relatively centrist parties practising "brokerage politics": the centre-left leaning Liberal Party of Canada and the centre-right leaning Conservative Party of Canada (or its predecessors).
canada: It is believed that the first documented European to explore the east coast of Canada was Norse explorer Leif Erikson.
canada: The delay underscored Canada's independence.
canada: Several Indigenous languages have official status in the Northwest Territories.
canada: About 80 percent of the population lives within 150 kilometres (93 mi) of the border with the contiguous United States.
canada: The role of Aboriginal law and the rights they support were reaffirmed by section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982.
canada: Established in 2015, Lake Superior National Marine Conservation Area is the world's largest freshwater protected area.
canada: "The Maple Leaf Forever", written in 1866, was popular and served as an unofficial national anthem of English Canada.
canada: The historically predominant Liberals position themselves at the centre of the political scale.
canada: Canada ranks among the lowest of the most developed countries for housing affordability and foreign direct investment.
canada: Laurent announced in the Canadian House of Commons that in light of the Statute of Westminster, 1931, and the changes to the Commonwealth, dominion was no longer an accurate term to use to refer to Canada and would no longer be used by the federal government.
canada: Beginning in the 16th century, British and French expeditions explored and later settled along the Atlantic coast.
canada: Education in Canada is for the most part provided publicly, funded and overseen by federal, provincial, and local governments.
canada: The country co-hosted the 2026 FIFA World Cup alongside Mexico and the United States.
canada: Common law prevails everywhere except Quebec, where civil law predominates.
canada: Achievements in music are recognized through various awards and prizes, most notably, the  Juno Awards presented by the Canadian Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences.
canada: The signing of the Oregon Treaty by Britain and the United States in 1846 ended the Oregon boundary dispute, extending the border westward along the 49th parallel.
canada: American Sign Language (ASL) is used across the country due to the prevalence of ASL in primary and secondary schools.
canada: According to a 2022 report by the OECD, Canada is one of the most educated countries in the world; the country ranks first worldwide in the percentage of adults having tertiary education, with over 56 percent of Canadian adults having attained at least an undergraduate college or university degree.
canada: Other major professional games include curling, basketball, baseball, soccer, and football.
canada: As of the 2021 census, just over 7.8 million Canadians listed a non-official language as their first language.
canada: Other faiths include Islam (4.9 percent), Hinduism (2.3 percent), Sikhism (2.1 percent), Buddhism (1.0 percent), Judaism (0.9 percent), and Indigenous spirituality (0.2 percent).
canada: The Charter guarantees basic rights and freedoms that usually cannot be overridden by any government; a notwithstanding clause allows Parliament and the provincial legislatures to override certain sections of the Charter for a period of five years.
canada: Canada's annual average temperature over land has risen by 1.7 °C (3.1 °F), with changes ranging from 1.1 to 2.3 °C (2.0 to 4.1 °F) in various regions, since 1948.
canada: The nation employs a professional, volunteer force of approximately 68,000 active personnel and 27,000 reserve personnel.
canada: Lawrence Lowlands, the Appalachian region, the Western Cordillera, Hudson Bay Lowlands, and the Arctic Archipelago.
canada: In Ontario, French has some legal status, but is not fully co-official.
canada: Canada's official bilingualism policies give citizens the right to receive federal government services in either English or French with official-language minorities guaranteed their own schools in all provinces and territories.
canada: This paved the way for British colonies on Vancouver Island (1849) and in British Columbia (1858).
canada: Inuktitut is the majority language in Nunavut and is one of three official languages in the territory.
canada: Respondents in the 2021 Canadian census self-reported over 450 "ethnic or cultural origins".
canada: St John's Island (now Prince Edward Island) became a separate colony in 1769.
canada: Peace, order, and good government, alongside an Implied Bill of Rights, are founding principles of Canadian federalism.
canada: Canada's economic integration with the United States has increased significantly since the Second World War.
canada: The Canada Act 1982, which brought the Constitution of Canada fully under Canadian control, referred only to Canada.
canada: Great achievements in Canadian sports are recognized by numerous "Halls of Fame" and museums, such as Canada's Sports Hall of Fame.
canada: This caused the collapse of the Plains Bison in western Canada and the introduction of European cattle farms and wheat fields dominating the land.
canada: This included acknowledgment of cultural genocide, settlement agreements, and betterment of racial discrimination issues, such as addressing the plight of missing and murdered Indigenous women.
canada: The Indigenous population at the time of the first European settlements is estimated to have been between 200,000 and two million, with a figure of 500,000 accepted by Canada's Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples.
canada: In the southern regions of Canada, air pollution from both Canada and the United States—caused by metal smelting, burning coal to power utilities, and vehicle emissions—has resulted in acid rain, which has severely impacted waterways, forest growth, and agricultural productivity.
canada: The Great Depression in Canada during the early 1930s saw an economic downturn, leading to hardship across the country.
canada: Canada can be divided into seven physiographic regions: the Canadian Shield, the Interior Plains, the Great Lakes–St.
canada: Between 1871 and 1896, almost one quarter of the Canadian population emigrated south to the US.
canada: These ecozones encompass over 80,000 classified species of Canadian wildlife, with an equal number yet to be formally recognized or discovered.
canada: New Brunswick was in turn split from Nova Scotia as part of a reorganization of Loyalist settlements in the Maritimes, which led to the incorporation of Saint John, New Brunswick, as Canada's first city.
canada: Canadian mass media, both print and digital, and in both official languages, is largely dominated by a "handful of corporations".
canada: At the same time, Quebec underwent profound social and economic changes through the Quiet Revolution of the 1960s, giving birth to a secular nationalist movement.
canada: The country's fishing and tourism industries are also a key contributor to the economy.
canada: Canada had established complete sovereignty as an independent country under its own monarchy.
canada: To accommodate the influx of English-speaking Loyalists in Central Canada, the Constitutional Act of 1791 divided the province of Canada into French-speaking Lower Canada (later Quebec) and English-speaking Upper Canada (later Ontario), granting each its own elected legislative assembly.
canada: The Constitution of Canada refers to God; however, Canada has no official church and the government is officially committed to religious pluralism.
canada: As Canadian literature progressed into the 20th and 21st centuries, it began to address a broader array of subjects and themes, such as women's rights, LGBTQ rights, immigrant experiences, environmental issues, the relationship with Indigenous peoples, and Canadian values and identity.
canada: The largest university is the University of Toronto, which has over 85,000 students.
canada: According to the 2021 census, Christianity is the largest religion in Canada, with Roman Catholics representing 29.9 percent of the population having the most adherents.
canada: The Paleo-Indian archeological sites at Old Crow Flats and Bluefish Caves are two of the oldest sites of human habitation in Canada.
canada: Volunteers sent to the Western Front later became part of the Canadian Corps, which played a substantial role in the Battle of Vimy Ridge and other major engagements of the war.
canada: Canada promotes its domestically shared values through participation in multiple international organizations and forums.
canada: Canada is described as a "full democracy", with a tradition of liberalism, and an egalitarian, moderate political ideology.
canada: Over half of Canada's landscape is intact and relatively free of human development.
canada: Education in both English and French is available in most places across Canada.
canada: Christians overall representing 53.3 percent of the population, are followed by people reporting irreligion or having no religion at 34.6 percent.
canada: The governor general appoints the court's nine members on the advice of the prime minister and minister of justice.
canada: Much of Northern Canada is covered by ice and permafrost.
canada: Canada launched its first satellite, Alouette 1, in 1962.
canada: Infectious diseases killed between 25 and 33 percent of Europeans who immigrated to Canada before 1891.
canada: Since the early 20th century, the growth of Canada's manufacturing, mining, and service sectors has transformed the nation from a largely rural economy to an urbanized, industrial one.
canada: The maple leaf is depicted on Canada's current and previous flags and on the arms of Canada.
canada: Although not without conflict, European Canadians' early interactions with First Nations and Inuit populations were relatively peaceful.
canada: The country also hosts numerous music halls of fame with the Canadian Music Hall of Fame honouring musicians at the national level for their lifetime achievements.
canada: Because Britain still maintained control of Canada's foreign affairs under the British North America Act, 1867, its declaration of war in 1914 automatically brought Canada into the First World War.
canada: Inuit art since the 1950s has been the traditional gift given to foreign dignitaries by the Canadian government.
canada: Law enforcement, including criminal courts, is officially a provincial responsibility, conducted by provincial and municipal police forces.
canada: The Proclamation and the Quebec Act in turn angered many residents of the Thirteen Colonies, further fuelling anti-British sentiment in the years prior to the American Revolution.
canada: The country's head of government is the prime minister, who holds office by virtue of their ability to command the confidence of the elected House of Commons and is appointed by the governor general, representing the monarch of Canada, the ceremonial head of state.
canada: Average winter and summer high temperatures across Canada vary from region to region.
canada: In common with many other developed countries, Canada is experiencing an increase in healthcare expenditures due to a demographic shift toward an older population, with more retirees and fewer people of working age.
canada: The boreal forest of Canada is considered to be the largest intact forest on Earth, with approximately 3,000,000 square kilometres (1,200,000 sq mi) undisturbed by roads, cities or industry.
canada: Other provinces have no official languages as such, but French is used as a language of instruction, in courts, and for other government services, in addition to English.
canada: Canada has one of the highest rates of adult obesity among OECD countries, contributing to approximately 2.7 million cases of diabetes.
canada: Alberta and Saskatchewan became provinces in 1905.
canada: As a result of its cultural importance, as well as government initiatives and regulations, the Canadian music industry is one of the largest in the world, producing internationally renowned composers, musicians, and ensembles.
canada: The Beaver Wars broke out in the mid-17th century over control of the North American fur trade.
canada: Since the 1960s, an emphasis on social justice has been a distinguishing element of Canada's political culture.
canada: Canada promotes its domestically shared values through participating in multiple international organizations.
canada: Many towns in northern Canada, where agriculture is difficult, are sustained by nearby mines or sources of timber.
canada: Canada's exports totalled over $637 billion, while its imported goods were worth over $631 billion, of which approximately $391 billion originated from the United States.
canada: Canada is noted for having a positive relationship with the Netherlands, owing, in part, to its contribution to the Dutch liberation during the Second World War.
canada: The Royal Proclamation of 1763 established First Nation treaty rights, created the Province of Quebec out of New France, and annexed Cape Breton Island to Nova Scotia.
canada: Atlantic Canada possess vast offshore deposits of natural gas, and Alberta hosts the fourth-largest oil reserves in the world.
canada: Following the London Declaration of 1949, where it was agreed that India could be a full member of the Commonwealth as a republic, not a dominion, the leaders of the Commonwealth countries agreed that the other members of the Commonwealth should not continue to be referred to as dominions.
canada: The Canadian unified forces comprise the Royal Canadian Navy, Canadian Army, and Royal Canadian Air Force.
canada: Canada's long and complex relationship with the United States has had a significant impact on its history, economy, and culture.
canada: This article incorporates content that is under an open licence from Statistics Canada (FAQ).
canada: The country is characterized by a wide range of both meteorologic and geological regions.
canada: These rights may include provision of services, such as healthcare through the Indian Health Transfer Policy, and exemption from taxation.
canada: British Columbia and Vancouver Island (which had been united in 1866) joined the confederation in 1871 on the promise of a transcontinental railway extending to Victoria in the province within 10 years, while Prince Edward Island joined in 1873.
canada: Its ten provinces and three territories extend from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean and northward into the Arctic Ocean, making it the second-largest country by total area, with the longest coastline of any country.
canada: Later that year, the name of the national holiday was changed from Dominion Day to Canada Day.
canada: The Parliament of Canada passes all federal statute laws.
canada: With a population of over 41 million, it has widely varying population densities, with the majority residing in its urban areas and large areas being sparsely populated.
canada: Canada has a long history of discovery in genetics, which include stem cells, site-directed mutagenesis, T-cell receptor, and the identification of the genes that cause Fanconi anemia, cystic fibrosis, and early-onset Alzheimer's disease, among numerous other diseases.
canada: Official website of the Government of Canada
Governor General of Canada, as Head of State
Prime Minister of Canada, as Head of Government
King and Queen's website, as Chief of State
Global Affairs Canada, Foreign Affairs
National Parliament
Sources
canada: In 1997, the Supreme Court ruled unilateral secession by a province would be unconstitutional, and the Clarity Act was passed by Parliament, outlining the terms of a negotiated departure from Confederation.
canada: These two colonies were collectively referred to as the Canadas until their union as the Province of Canada in 1841.
canada: Following three constitutional conferences, the British North America Act, 1867 officially proclaimed Canadian Confederation on July 1, 1867, initially with four provinces: Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick.
canada: In longitude, Canada's land extends from Cape Spear, Newfoundland, at 52°37′W, to Mount St.
canada: The early 16th century saw European mariners with navigational techniques pioneered by the Basque and Portuguese establish seasonal whaling and fishing outposts along the Atlantic coast.
canada: The future of the permafrost is uncertain because the Arctic has been warming at three times the global average as a result of climate change in Canada.
canada: Canadian teams in these leagues include seven franchises in the National Hockey League, three Major League Soccer teams, and one team in each of Major League Baseball and the National Basketball Association.
canada: A trade war involving the United States began on February 1, 2025, when U.S.
canada: Socially democratic programs were also instituted, such as Medicare, the Canada Pension Plan, and Canada Student Loans; though, provincial governments, particularly Quebec and Alberta, opposed many of these as incursions into their jurisdictions.
canada: These early European interactions with First Nations would change from friendship and peace treaties to the dispossession of Indigenous lands through treaties.
canada: Provinces and territories have responsibility for social programs such as healthcare, education, and social programs, as well as administration of justice (but not criminal law).
canada: Globalization has significantly influenced Canadian foreign policies, with the country known for its promotion of peace and security through mediation, and for providing aid to developing countries.
canada: Canada is one of the few developed nations that are net exporters of energy.
canada: The arms of Canada are closely modelled after those of the United Kingdom, with French and distinctive Canadian elements replacing or added to those derived from the British version.
canada: The English established additional settlements in Newfoundland in 1610 along with settlements in the Thirteen Colonies to the south.
canada: This marks a significant increase from previous years—roughly 1.3% to 1.4% between 2021 and 2024.
canada: To settle the West and attract European immigrants, Canada sponsored the construction of three transcontinental railways, enacted the Dominion Lands Act and founded the North-West Mounted Police to maintain regional authority.
canada: The Constitution Act, 1867 (known as the British North America Act, 1867 prior to 1982), affirmed governance based on parliamentary precedent and divided powers between the federal and provincial governments.
canada: Canada is one of the largest greenhouse gas emitters globally, with emissions increased by 16.5 percent between 1990 and 2022.
canada: Canada's largest national wildlife region, established in 2018, is the Scott Islands Marine National Wildlife Area.
canada: The Conscription Crisis of 1917 erupted when the Unionist Cabinet's proposal to augment the military's dwindling number of active members with conscription was met with vehement objections from French-speaking Quebecers.
canada: As a whole, Canada is in theory a cultural mosaic of regional ethnic subcultures with diverse areas and ethnic enclaves.
canada: Lawrence River.
canada: With Christianity in decline after having once been central and integral to Canadian culture and daily life, Canada has become a post-Christian, secular state.
canada: Canada has developed a vast music infrastructure that includes church halls, chamber halls, conservatories, academies, performing arts centres, record companies, radio stations, music charts, and television music video channels.
canada: This mostly pays for services not covered or partially covered by Medicare, such as prescription drugs, dentistry and optometry.
canada: The main drivers of population growth are immigration and, to a lesser extent, natural growth.
canada: During this time, Canada introduced the Indian Act extending its control over the First Nations to education, government and legal rights.
canada: Canada is divided into 15 terrestrial and five marine ecozones.
canada: There are 11 Indigenous language groups, composed of more than 65 distinct languages and dialects.
canada: Canada ratified the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) in 1948, and seven principal UN human rights conventions and covenants since then.
canada: This period of westward expansion and nation building resulted in the displacement of many Indigenous peoples of the Canadian Prairies to "Indian reserves", clearing the way for ethnic European block settlements.
canada: Canada provided asylum for the Dutch monarchy while that country was occupied and is credited by the Netherlands for major contributions to its liberation from Nazi Germany.
canada: Coastal British Columbia has a temperate climate, with a mild and rainy winter.
canada: There are approximately 8 million people aged 15 and older with one or more disabilities in Canada.
canada: The Toronto Stock Exchange is the ninth-largest stock exchange in the world by market capitalization, listing over 1,500 companies with a combined market capitalization of over US$2 trillion.
canada: The country is a Commonwealth realm and is officially bilingual (English and French) in the federal jurisdiction.
canada: Canadians identified hockey as their preferred sport for viewing, followed by soccer and then basketball.
canada: Its capital is Ottawa and its three largest metropolitan areas are Toronto, Montreal, and Vancouver.
canada: Canada has the second-largest national Sikh population, behind India.
canada: Eighty percent of Canadian adults self-report having at least one major risk factor for chronic disease: smoking, physical inactivity, unhealthy eating or excessive alcohol use.
canada: Numerous Canadian authors have received international literary awards including the Nobel Prize in Literature, the Booker Prize, and the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.
canada: Around 30 percent of Canadians' healthcare is paid for through the private sector.
canada: Canada also maintains historic and traditional ties to the United Kingdom and to France, along with both countries' former colonies through its membership in the Commonwealth of Nations and the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie.
canada: Canada's official tartan, known as the "maple leaf tartan", reflects the colours of the maple leaf through the seasons—green in the spring, gold in the early autumn, red at the first frost, and brown after falling.
canada: During the 20th century, Canadians with African, Caribbean, and Asian heritages have added to Canadian identity.
canada: While Canada inherited the British concept of parliamentary supremacy, this was later, with the enactment of the Constitution Act, 1982, all but completely superseded by the American notion of the supremacy of the law.
canada: This led to the formation of the Bloc Québécois in Quebec and the invigoration of the Reform Party of Canada in the West.
canada: Identified weaknesses were comparatively higher infant mortality rate, the prevalence of chronic conditions, long wait times, poor availability of after-hours care, and a lack of prescription drugs and dental coverage.
canada: Cartier later used the word Canada to refer not only to that particular village but to the entire area subject to Donnacona (the chief at Stadacona); by 1545, European books and maps had begun referring to this small region along the Saint Lawrence River as Canada.
canada: Canada assumed control of Rupert's Land and the North-Western Territory to form the Northwest Territories, where the Métis' grievances ignited the Red River Rebellion and the creation of the province of Manitoba in July 1870.
canada: While a variety of theories have been postulated for the etymological origins of Canada, the name is now accepted as coming from the St.
canada: Canada shares several major professional sports leagues with the United States.
canada: It contributes to the International Space Station and is known for its robotic tools, such as multiple Canadarms.
canada: Universal access to publicly funded health services "is often considered by Canadians as a fundamental value that ensures national healthcare insurance for everyone wherever they live in the country".
canada: In 2011, Canadian forces participated in the NATO-led intervention into the Libyan Civil War and also became involved in battling the Islamic State insurgency in Iraq in the mid-2010s.
canada: The majority of Canadians (81.1 percent) live in family households, 12.1 percent report living alone, and 6.8 percent live with other relatives or unrelated persons.
canada: Non-news media content in Canada, including film and television, is influenced both by local creators as well as by imports from the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, and France.
canada: After two referendums, Newfoundlanders voted to join Canada in 1949 as a province.
canada: Modern symbols emphasize the country's geography, northern climate, lifestyles, and the Canadianization of traditional European and Indigenous symbols.
canada: In response to the downturn, the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) in Saskatchewan introduced many elements of a welfare state (as pioneered by Tommy Douglas) in the 1940s and 1950s.
canada: In addition to the issues of Quebec sovereignty, a number of crises shook Canadian society in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
canada: On the east and west coasts, average high temperatures are generally in the low 20s °C (70s °F), while between the coasts, the average summer high temperature ranges from 25 to 30 °C (77 to 86 °F), with temperatures in some interior locations occasionally exceeding 40 °C (104 °F).
canada: The country has membership in the World Trade Organization, the Five Eyes, the G7 and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
canada: Since the 1960s, Canada has emphasized human rights and inclusiveness for all its people.
canada: Indigenous peoples in present-day Canada include the First Nations, Inuit, and Métis, the last being of mixed descent who originated in the mid-17th century when First Nations people married European settlers and their offspring subsequently developed their own identity.
canada: There are also clusters of Acadians in southwestern Nova Scotia, on Cape Breton Island, and in central and western Prince Edward Island.
canada: The minister of finance and minister of innovation, science, and industry use data from Statistics Canada to enable financial planning and develop economic policy.
canada: Canada's main exports are zinc, uranium, gold, nickel, platinoids, aluminum, steel, iron ore, coking coal, lead, copper, molybdenum, cobalt, and cadmium.
canada: Canada is recognized as a middle power; its support for multilateralism and internationalism has been closely related to its foreign policies of peacekeeping and aid for developing countries.
canada: Canada has a large number of universities, almost all of which are publicly funded.
canada: Peace came in 1815; no boundaries were changed.
canada: It ranks high in the Global Competitiveness Report (19th in 2024).
canada: The Canadian Space Agency runs an active space program focused on deep-space, planetary, and aviation research, along with rockets and satellites.
canada: Although the provinces collect more revenue than the federal government, equalization payments are made by the federal government to ensure reasonably uniform standards of services and taxation are kept between the richer and poorer provinces.
canada: Many moved to Canada, particularly Atlantic Canada, where their arrival changed the demographic distribution of the existing territories.
canada: Following the British conquest of New France, this area was known as the British Province of Quebec from 1763 to 1791.
canada: Its border with the United States is the longest international land border.
canada: The Indigenous population representing 5 percent or 1.8 million people, grew by 9.4 percent compared to the non-Indigenous population, which grew by 5.3 percent from 2016 to 2021.
canada: These may be grouped into four main regions: Western Canada, Central Canada, Atlantic Canada, and Northern Canada (Eastern Canada refers to Central Canada and Atlantic Canada together).
canada: Although more than 82 percent of French-speaking Canadians live in Quebec, there are substantial Francophone populations in New Brunswick, Alberta, and Manitoba, with Ontario having the largest French-speaking population outside Quebec.
canada: president Donald Trump signed orders imposing tariffs on goods entering the United States, alongside rhetoric suggesting the annexation of Canada.
canada: Stretching from the Atlantic Ocean in the east, along the Arctic Ocean to the north, and to the Pacific Ocean in the west, the country encompasses 9,984,670 square kilometres (3,855,100 sq mi) of territory.
canada: Canada's official national sports are ice hockey and lacrosse.
canada: Approximately 13.8 percent of its territorial waters are conserved, including 8.9 percent designated as protected areas.
canada: The use of the maple leaf as a symbol dates to the early 18th century in New France.
canada: Canada's role in developing peacekeeping and its participation in initiatives during the 20th century has played a major role in its positive global image.
canada: Various treaties and case laws were established to mediate relations between Europeans and many Indigenous peoples.
canada: Canada was a founding member of the United Nations (UN) in 1945 and formed the North American Aerospace Defense Command together with the United States in 1958.
canada: Canada's population density, at 4.2 inhabitants per square kilometre (11/sq mi), is among the lowest in the world, with approximately 95 percent of the population residing south of the 55th parallel north.
canada: As a consequence of European colonization, the Indigenous population declined by forty to eighty percent.
canada: The change to participation via NATO has resulted in a shift towards more militarized and deadly missions rather than traditional peacekeeping duties.
canada: Canada is a country in North America.
canada: As of 2023, the country has produced 15 Nobel laureates in physics, chemistry, and medicine.
canada: In 1961, about 300,000 people, less than two percent of Canada's population, were members of visible minority groups.
canada: Although Canada has a low percentage of endemic species compared to other countries, due to human activities, invasive species, and environmental issues in the country, there are currently more than 800 species at risk of being lost.
canada: Although the majority of Canadians consider religion to be unimportant in their daily lives, they still believe in God.
canada: An increasing problem in Canada's health system is a lack of healthcare professionals and hospital capacity.
canada: The characteristics of Indigenous societies included permanent settlements, agriculture, complex societal hierarchies, and trading networks.
canada: In 1919, Canada joined the League of Nations independently of Britain.
canada: To ensure the stability of government, the governor general will usually appoint as prime minister the person who is the current leader of the political party that can obtain the confidence of a majority of members in the House.
canada: In 1999, Nunavut became Canada's third territory after a series of negotiations with the federal government.
canada: In an effort to reduce the amount of foreign-made media, government interventions in television broadcasting can include both regulation of content and public financing.
canada: Approximately 12.1 percent of the nation's landmass and freshwater are conservation areas, including 11.4 percent designated as protected areas.
canada: In 2022, Canada's per-capita spending on health expenditures ranked 12th among health-care systems in the OECD.
canada: Canada is religiously diverse, encompassing a wide range of beliefs and customs.
canada: Canada is a federation composed of 10 federated states, called provinces, and three federal territories.
canada: Canada's mixed-market economy is highly developed, ranking as the world's ninth-largest by nominal GDP as of 2023, at approximately US$2.221 trillion.
canada: Upon Confederation in 1867, Canada was adopted as the legal name for the new country at the London Conference and the word dominion was conferred as the country's title, reflecting its status as a self-governing nation within the British Empire.
canada: As of 2023, Canada is a signatory to 15 free trade agreements with 51 different countries.
canada: In most rural and some urban areas, policing responsibilities are contracted to the federal Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
canada: On the advice of Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King, war with Germany was declared effective September 10, 1939, by King George VI, seven days after the United Kingdom.
canada: In general, early settlements during the Age of Discovery appear to have been short-lived due to a combination of the harsh climate, problems with navigating trade routes and competing outputs in Scandinavia.
canada: The monarch appoints a representative, the governor general, on the advice of the prime minister, to carry out most of their ceremonial royal duties.
canada: The country was a founding member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum (APEC) in 1989 and joined the Organization of American States (OAS) in 1990.
canada: The reigning monarch is also monarch of 14 other sovereign Commonwealth countries and Canada's 10 provinces.
canada: Life expectancy is 81.1 years.
canada: Despite another conscription crisis in Quebec in 1944, Canada finished the war with a large army and strong economy.
canada: The Group of Seven is often considered the first uniquely Canadian artistic group and style of painting.
canada: The federal government did provide emergency relief, on condition of the Indigenous peoples moving to the reserves.
canada: Similarly, the United Kingdom no longer used the term dominions to refer to Canada or other members of the Commonwealth, instead beginning to use the term a realm of the Commonwealth.
canada: Canada's approach to governance emphasizing multiculturalism, which is based on selective immigration, social integration, and suppression of far-right politics, has wide public support.
canada: The Anglo-Russian Treaty of Saint Petersburg (1825) established the border along the Pacific coast, but, even after the US Alaska Purchase of 1867, disputes continued about the exact demarcation of the Alaska–Yukon and Alaska–British Columbia border.
canada: Canadian identity shifted from primarily British-based to multicultural between the 1960s and 1970s.
canada: In 1951, Prime Minister Louis St.
canada: The desire for responsible government resulted in the abortive Rebellions of 1837.
canada: The nature of Canadian art reflects these diverse origins, as artists have taken their traditions and adapted these influences to reflect the reality of their lives in Canada.
canada: The unemployment rate in 2025 was 6.8 percent.
canada: Canadian tax laws limit foreign competition in magazine advertising.
canada: This began an accretion of provinces and territories resulting in the displacement of Indigenous populations, and a process of increasing autonomy from the United Kingdom.
canada: A series of four wars erupted in colonial North America between 1689 and 1763; the later wars of the period constituted the North American theatre of the Seven Years' War.
canada: In 1534, French explorer Jacques Cartier explored the Gulf of Saint Lawrence where, on July 24, he planted a 10-metre (33 ft) cross bearing the words, "long live the King of France", and took possession of the territory New France in the name of King Francis I.
canada: Canadian Aboriginal law provides certain constitutionally recognized rights to land and traditional practices for Indigenous groups in Canada.
canada: Healthcare in Canada is delivered through the provincial and territorial systems of publicly funded health care, informally called Medicare.
canada: Canada's economy ranks above most Western nations on the Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom and experiences a relatively low level of income disparity.
canada: In 1600, the French established their first seasonal trading post at Tadoussac along the Saint Lawrence.
canada: The Act of Union 1840 merged the Canadas into a united Province of Canada and responsible government was established for all provinces of British North America east of Lake Superior by 1855.
canada: In 1867, with the union of three British North American colonies through Confederation, Canada was formed as a federal dominion of four provinces.
canada: Themes of nature, pioneers, trappers, and traders played an important part in the early development of Canadian symbolism.
canada: Among the colonists of New France, Canadiens extensively settled the Saint Lawrence River valley and Acadians settled the present-day Maritimes, while fur traders and Catholic missionaries explored the Great Lakes, Hudson Bay, and the Mississippi watershed to Louisiana.
canada: Canada is highly urbanized, with over 80 percent of the population living in urban centres.
canada: The rate of warming has been higher across the North and in the Prairies.
canada: Education in Canada is generally divided into primary education, followed by secondary and post-secondary education.
canada: The Bank of Canada is the central bank of the country.
canada: It is estimated that Canada's population surpassed 40,000,000 in 2023.
canada: Canadian troops played important roles in many key battles of the war, including the failed 1942 Dieppe Raid, the Allied invasion of Italy, the Normandy landings, the Battle of Normandy, and the Battle of the Scheldt in 1944.
canada: Canadian music reflects a variety of regional scenes.
canada: Canadians also identify with the country's foreign aid policies, peacekeeping roles, the national park system, and the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
canada: This was closely followed by cycling (33 percent) and running (27 percent).
canada: An image of the monarch appears on $20 bank notes and the obverse of coins.
canada: Canada's media is highly autonomous, diverse, and very regionalized.
canada: The country ranks seventh in the worldwide share of articles published in scientific journals, according to the Nature Index, and is home to the headquarters of a number of global technology firms.
canada: In approximately 1000 AD, the Norse built a small short-lived encampment that was occupied sporadically for perhaps 20 years at L'Anse aux Meadows on the northern tip of Newfoundland.
canada: Criminal law is solely a federal responsibility and is uniform throughout Canada.
canada: In terms of participation, swimming was the most commonly reported sport by over one-third (35 percent) of Canadians in 2023.
canada: Canada has a strong cooperative banking sector, with the world's highest per-capita membership in credit unions.
canada: The large decrease was a result of Canada directing its participation to UN-sanctioned military operations through the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, rather than directly through the UN.
canada: Canada is geologically active, having many earthquakes and potentially active volcanoes.
canada: Education is within provincial jurisdiction and a province's curriculum is overseen by its government.
canada: After the American War of Independence, the 1783 Treaty of Paris recognized the independence of the United States and set the terms of peace, ceding British North American territories south of the Great Lakes and east of the Mississippi River to the new country.
canada: Canada has diplomatic and consular offices in over 270 locations in approximately 180 foreign countries.
canada: Canada's oldest provincial park, Algonquin Provincial Park was established in 1893.
canada: The practice of religion is generally considered a private matter.
canada: Elias, Yukon Territory, at 141°W.
canada: The Durham Report subsequently recommended responsible government and the assimilation of French Canadians into English culture.
canada: Canada spends an average of 5.3 percent of its GDP on education.
canada: From the 16th to the early 18th century, Canada referred to the part of New France that lay along the Saint Lawrence River.
canada: Canada has one of the highest levels of Internet access in the world, with approximately 95 percent of its population aged 15 and above.
canada: Canada has long been reluctant to participate in military interventions that are not sanctioned by the United Nations, such as the Vietnam War, the 2003 invasion of Iraq and 2026 Iran war.
canada: In 1583, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, by the royal prerogative of Queen Elizabeth I, founded St John's, Newfoundland, as the first North American English seasonal camp.
canada: The Canadas were the main front in the War of 1812 between the United States and the United Kingdom.
canada: Canada is recognized as a middle power for its role in global affairs with a tendency to pursue multilateral and international solutions.
canada: Other major Canadian scientific contributions include the artificial cardiac pacemaker, mapping the visual cortex, the development of the electron microscope, plate tectonics, deep learning, multi-touch technology, and the identification of the first black hole, Cygnus X-1.
canada: The 2021 Canadian census enumerated a total population of 36,991,981, an increase of around 5.2 percent over the 2016 figure.
canada: The country is also home to many sign languages, some of which are Indigenous.
canada: After the September 11 attacks in the United States, Canada sent troops to Afghanistan in 2001, resulting in the largest amount of Canadian deaths for any single military mission since the Korean War in the early 1950s.
canada: Since the end of the last glacial period, Canada has consisted of eight distinct forest regions.
canada: The Canadian economy is dominated by the service industry, which employs about three-quarters of the country's workforce.
canada: It ranks low in the Corruption Perceptions Index (14th in 2023) and "is widely regarded as among the least corrupt countries of the world".
canada: Canada's culture draws influences from its broad range of constituent nationalities, and policies that promote a just society are constitutionally protected.
canada: The Constitution of Canada is the supreme law of the country and consists of written text and unwritten conventions.
canada: A period of redress began with the formation of a reconciliation commission by the Government of Canada in 2008.
canada: In 1898, during the Klondike Gold Rush in the Northwest Territories, Parliament created the Yukon Territory.
canada: Winters can be harsh in many parts of the country, particularly in the interior and Prairie provinces, which experience a continental climate, where daily average temperatures are near −15 °C (5 °F), but can drop below −40 °C (−40 °F) with severe wind chills.
canada: The largest of these corporations is the country's national public broadcaster, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, which also plays a significant role in producing domestic cultural content, operating its own radio and TV networks in both English and French.
canada: In 2020, Canada spent approximately $41.9 billion on domestic research and development, with supplementary estimates for 2022 at $43.2 billion.
canada: The Broadcasting Act declares "the system should serve to safeguard, enrich, and strengthen the cultural, political, social, and economic fabric of Canada".
canada: As a consequence of various armed conflicts, France ceded nearly all of its colonies in North America in 1763.
canada: The Government of Canada has played a role in the development of art, through the department of Canadian Heritage by giving grants to art galleries, as well as by establishing and funding art schools and colleges across the country, and through the Canada Council for the Arts.
canada: This increased sovereignty was highlighted by the Statute of Westminster, 1931, and culminated in the Canada Act 1982, which severed the vestiges of legal dependence on the Parliament of the United Kingdom.
canada: Some of these cultures had collapsed by the time European explorers arrived in the late 15th and early 16th centuries and have only been discovered through archeological investigations.
canada: Canada has a sizeable manufacturing sector centred in southern Ontario and Quebec, with automobiles and aeronautics representing particularly important industries.
canada: New arrivals included refugees escaping the Great Irish Famine as well as Gaelic-speaking Scots displaced by the Highland Clearances.
canada: The radical Front de libération du Québec (FLQ) ignited the October Crisis with a series of bombings and kidnappings in 1970, and the sovereigntist Parti Québécois was elected in 1976, organizing an unsuccessful referendum on sovereignty-association in 1980.
canada: About 65 percent of Canada's resident species are considered "Secure".
canada: The Statute of Westminster, 1931, granted full autonomy, and the Constitution Act, 1982, ended all legislative ties to Britain, as well as adding a constitutional amending formula and the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
canada: Fifty-one percent of households are couples with or without children, 8.7 percent are single-parent households, 2.9 percent are multigenerational households, and 29.3 percent are single-person households.
canada: Art in Canada is marked by thousands of years of habitation by Indigenous peoples, and, in later times, artists have combined British, French, Indigenous, and American artistic traditions, at times embracing European styles while working to promote nationalism.
canada: In non-coastal regions, snow can cover the ground for almost six months of the year, while in parts of the north snow can persist year-round.
canada: In 1535, Indigenous inhabitants of the present-day Quebec City region used the word to direct French explorer Jacques Cartier to the village of Stadacona.
canada: Quebec's 1974 Official Language Act established French as the only official language of the province.
canada: The COVID-19 pandemic in Canada began on January 27, 2020, causing widespread social and economic disruption.
canada: Canada has a parliamentary system within the context of a constitutional monarchy—the monarchy of Canada being the foundation of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches.
canada: In all, over a million Canadians served in the armed forces during the Second World War.
canada: Canadian literary awards and prizes include the Governor General's Literary Awards, the Giller Prize, the Latner Griffin Writers' Trust Poetry Prize, the Burt Award for First Nations, Inuit and Métis Literature and several accolades for literature aimed at children.
canada: Far-right and far-left politics have never been a prominent force in Canadian society.
canada: The majority of Canadians (over 70 percent) live below the 49th parallel, with 50 percent of Canadians living south of 45°42′ (45.7 degrees) north.
canada: The 105 members of the Senate, whose seats are apportioned on a regional basis, serve until age 75.
canada: Since the 21st century, Canadian direct participation in UN peacekeeping efforts has greatly declined.
canada: Four chronic diseases—cancer (leading cause of death), cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, and diabetes—account for 65 percent of deaths in Canada.
canada: Sports such as golf, volleyball, badminton, bowling, and martial arts are also widely enjoyed at the youth and amateur levels.
canada: Canadian literature is often divided into French- and English-language literatures, which are rooted in the literary traditions of France and Britain, respectively.
canada: Of the 36.3 million people enumerated in 2021, approximately 25.4 million reported being "White", representing 69.8 percent of the population.
canada: Government support programs, such as the Canada Music Fund, assist a wide range of musicians and entrepreneurs who create, produce and market original and diverse Canadian music.
canada: Patriotic music by Canadians dates back over 200 years, with "The Bold Canadian", written in 1812, popular throughout the 19th century.
canada: In 2021, India, China, and the Philippines were the top three countries of origin for immigrants moving to Canada.
canada: Peacekeeping is deeply embedded in Canadian culture and a distinguishing feature that Canadians feel sets their foreign policy apart from the United States.
canada: It is guided by the provisions of the Canada Health Act of 1984 and is universal.
canada: Lawrence River (in the southeast) where the lowlands host much of Canada's economic output.
canada: Canada and the United States have a long and complex relationship; historically close allies, they co-operate regularly on military campaigns and humanitarian efforts.
canada: Canada's official website for travel and tourism
canada: New immigrants settle mostly in major urban areas, such as Toronto, Montreal, and Vancouver.
canada: Each of the 343 members of Parliament in the House of Commons is elected by simple plurality in an electoral district or riding.
canada: Freedom of religion in Canada is a constitutionally protected right.
canada: It comprises the monarch, the House of Commons, and the Senate.
canada: Approximately 65 to 75 percent of Canadians have some form of supplementary health insurance; many receive it through their employers or access secondary social service programs.
canada: Canada is influenced by British, French and Indigenous cultures and traditions.
canada: New Brunswick, the only officially bilingual province, has an Acadian French minority constituting 33 percent of the population.
canada: Lawrence Iroquoian word kanata, meaning 'village' or 'settlement'.
canada: The vast Athabasca oil sands and other oil reserves give Canada 13 percent of global oil reserves, constituting the world's third- or fourth-largest.
canada: The Canada Council Art Bank also helps artists by buying and publicizing their work.
canada: Immigration resumed at a higher level, with over 960,000 arrivals from Britain between 1815 and 1850.
canada: Canada has initiated many long-term projects, including the Radarsat satellite series and the Black Brant rocket series.
canada: Historically, the Catholic Church was the primary patron of art in early Canada, especially Quebec.
canada: No further European exploration occurred until 1497, when seafarer John Cabot explored and claimed Canada's Atlantic coast in the name of Henry VII of England.
canada: To avert conflict in Quebec, the British Parliament passed the Quebec Act 1774, expanding Quebec's territory to the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley.
canada: A record 483,390 immigrants were admitted in 2024.
canada: It re-established the French language, Catholic faith, and French civil law there, staving off the growth of an independence movement in contrast to the Thirteen Colonies.
canada: "O Canada", originally composed in French in 1880, also served as an unofficial national anthem during the 20th century and was adopted as the country's official anthem in 1980.
canada: A second referendum followed in 1995, in which sovereignty was rejected by a slimmer margin of 50.6 to 49.4 percent.
canada: A multitude of languages are used by Canadians, with English and French (the official languages) being the mother tongues of approximately 54 percent and 19 percent of Canadians, respectively.
canada: Attempts to accommodate Quebec nationalism constitutionally through the Meech Lake Accord failed in 1990.
canada: Other popular professional competitions include the Canadian Football League, National Lacrosse League, the Canadian Premier League, and the curling tournaments hosted by Curling Canada.
canada: In latitude, Canada's most northerly point of land is Cape Columbia in Nunavut at 83°6′41″N, with its southern extreme at Middle Island in Lake Erie at 41°40′53″N.
canada: In 2021, Canadian trade in goods and services reached $2.016 trillion.
canada: By land area alone, Canada ranks fourth, due to having the world's largest area of fresh water lakes.
canada: The Commonwealth Fund's 2021 report comparing the healthcare systems of the 11 most developed countries ranked Canada second-to-last.
canada: Great achievements in art in Canada are recognized through various awards and prizes, such as the Molson Prize, the Audain Prize for the Visual Arts, and the Governor General's Visual and Media Arts Awards.
canada: In 1791, the area became two British colonies called Upper Canada and Lower Canada.
canada: Alongside many domestic obligations, more than 3,000 Canadian Armed Forces (CAF) personnel are deployed in multiple foreign military operations.
canada: The earliest Canadian narratives were of travel and exploration.
canada: In 2021, possible gravesites of Indigenous children were found near former Canadian residential schools, highlighting the cultural genocide against Indigenous peoples.
canada: In 2021, the average age in Canada was 41.9 years.
canada: The country invests heavily in tertiary education (more than US$20,000 per student).
canada: A 2016 report by the chief public health officer found that 88 percent of Canadians, one of the highest proportions of the population among G7 countries, indicated that they "had good or very good health".
canada: Canada's achievements in science and technology include the creation of the modern alkaline battery, the discovery of insulin, the development of the polio vaccine, and discoveries about the interior structure of the atomic nucleus.
canada: Canada has an unusually important primary sector, of which the forestry and petroleum industries are the most prominent components.
canada: French explorer Samuel de Champlain arrived in 1603 and established the first permanent year-round European settlements at Port Royal (in 1605) and Quebec City (in 1608).
canada: "God Save the King" has been used in Canada since the late 1700s and is the country's de facto royal anthem.
canada: It is very highly ranked in international measurements of government transparency, quality of life, economic competitiveness, innovation, education and human rights.
canada: By total area (including its waters), Canada is the second-largest country.
canada: In 2018, Canada had a trade deficit in goods of $22 billion and a trade deficit in services of $25 billion.
canada: The Great Lakes feed the St.
canada: Canada's three territories also have legislatures, but these are not sovereign, have fewer constitutional responsibilities than the provinces, and differ structurally from their provincial counterparts.
canada: Canada's first National Park, Banff National Park was established in 1885.
canada: More importantly, the Quebec Act afforded Quebec special autonomy and rights of self-administration at a time when the Thirteen Colonies were increasingly agitating against British rule.
canada: The most densely populated part of the country is the Quebec City–Windsor Corridor in Southern Quebec and Southern Ontario along the Great Lakes and the St.
canada: Canada is a parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy in the Westminster tradition.
canada: Boreal forests prevail throughout the country, ice is prominent in northern Arctic regions and through the Rocky Mountains, and the relatively flat Canadian Prairies in the southwest facilitate productive agriculture.
canada: In March 2026, Canada achieved the NATO target of spending 2% of its GDP on defence for the 2026 fiscal year.
canada: Canada has a well-developed media sector, but its cultural output—particularly in English films, television shows, and magazines—is often overshadowed by imports from the United States.
canada: Between 2011 and 2016, the visible minority population rose by 18.4 percent.
canada: Rates of religious adherence have steadily decreased since the 1970s.
canada: The monarchy is the source of sovereignty and authority in Canada.
canada: In Quebec, cultural identity is strong and there is a French Canadian culture that is distinct from English Canadian culture.
canada: Canada has over 2,000,000 lakes—563 of which are larger than 100 square kilometres (39 sq mi)—containing much of the world's fresh water.
canada: Over 60 percent of Canadians reported a single origin, and 36 percent reported having multiple ethnic origins, thus the overall total is greater than 100 percent.
canada: Manitoba, Ontario, and Quebec allow for both English and French to be spoken in the provincial legislatures and laws are enacted in both languages.
canada: The Supreme Court of Canada is the highest court, final arbiter, and has been led since 2017 by Richard Wagner, the Chief Justice of Canada.
canada: The first Canadian Army units arrived in Britain in December 1939.
canada: The official state policy of multiculturalism is often cited as one of Canada's significant accomplishments and a key distinguishing element of Canadian identity.
canada: The Canada – United States Free Trade Agreement (FTA) of 1988 eliminated tariffs between the two countries, while the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) expanded the free-trade zone to include Mexico in 1994 (later replaced by the Canada–United States–Mexico Agreement).
canada: The 2021 census indicated that 8.3 million people, or almost one-quarter (23.0 percent) of the population, reported themselves as being or having been a landed immigrant or permanent resident in Canada—above the 1921 census previous record of 22.3 percent.
canada: In 2024, the Canadian Institute for Health Information estimated that healthcare spending reached $372 billion, or 12.4 percent of Canada's GDP for that year.
canada: The Indigenous peoples saw widespread famine and disease due to the loss of the bison and their traditional hunting lands.
canada: In addition to the CBC, some provincial governments offer their own public educational TV broadcast services as well, such as TVOntario and Télé-Québec.
canada: Canadian federalism divides government responsibilities between the federal government and the 10 provinces.
canada: Indigenous peoples have continuously inhabited what is now Canada for thousands of years.
canada: Mainland Nova Scotia came under British rule with the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht and Canada and most of New France came under British rule in 1763 after the Seven Years' War.
canada: Financial support from governmental bodies, such as the Canada Council for the Arts and various provincial grant programs, facilitates the creation, publication, and promotion of works by Canadian authors.
canada: Canada has one of the highest per-capita immigration rates in the world, driven mainly by economic policy and family reunification.
canada: A developed country, Canada has a high nominal per capita income globally and its advanced economy ranks among the largest in the world by nominal GDP, relying chiefly upon its abundant natural resources and well-developed international trade networks.
canada: The American war of independence also caused a large out-migration of Loyalists, the settlers who had fought against American independence.
canada: First Nations and Métis peoples played a critical part in the development of European colonies in Canada, particularly for their role in assisting European coureurs des bois and voyageurs in their explorations of the continent during the North American fur trade.
canada: The federal Cabinet also appoints justices to superior courts in the provincial and territorial jurisdictions.
canada: As of 2022, 89 percent of adults aged 25 to 64 have earned the equivalent of a high-school degree, compared to an OECD average of 75 percent.
canada: Quebec Sign Language (LSQ) is used primarily in Quebec.
canada: Wikimedia Atlas of Canada
Statistics Canada, Canada's national statistical agency
Travel
canada: Canadian cuisine items such as Canadian beer, maple syrup, Nanaimo bars, butter tarts, and the Quebec dishes of poutine and tourtière, alongside material items such as tuques, canoes and Hudson's Bay point blanket are considered as uniquely Canadian.
canada: Some of the most common non-official first languages include Mandarin (679,255 first-language speakers), Punjabi (666,585), Cantonese (553,380), Spanish (538,870), Arabic (508,410), Tagalog (461,150), Italian (319,505), German (272,865), and Tamil (237,890).
canada: Canada joined the Gulf War in 1990 and was active in several peacekeeping missions in the 1990s, including operations in the Balkans during and after the Yugoslav Wars, and in Somalia, resulting in an incident that has been described as "the darkest era in the history of the Canadian military".
canada: Settler colonialism reached a climax in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
canada: Canada is also home to the world's northernmost settlement, Canadian Forces Station Alert, on the northern tip of Ellesmere Island—latitude 82.5°N—which lies 817 kilometres (508 mi) from the North Pole.
canada: The country is one of the world's largest trading nations, with a highly globalized economy.
canada: The nation's three top ranking universities are the University of Toronto, McGill, and the University of British Columbia.
canada: It is one of the world's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration.
canada: Finally, another series of constitutional conferences resulted in the Canada Act 1982, the patriation of Canada's constitution from the United Kingdom, concurrent with the creation of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
canada: There are also fresh-water glaciers in the Canadian Rockies, the Coast Mountains, and the Arctic Cordillera.
canada: The country's average household disposable income per capita is "well above" the OECD average.
canada: The evolution of Canadian literature is intricately linked to the country's historical and social contexts, often mirroring the challenges and changes in Canadian society.
canada: From the late 18th century, European Canadians forced Indigenous peoples to assimilate into a western Canadian society.
canada: Established in 1663, Université Laval is the oldest post-secondary institution in Canada.
canada: This developed into three major themes of historical Canadian literature: nature, frontier life, and Canada's position within the world, all of which tie into the garrison mentality.
canada: Canada's judiciary interprets laws and has the power to strike down acts of Parliament that violate the constitution.
canada: Canadian coins feature many of these symbols: the loon on the $1 coin, the coat of arms on the 50¢ piece, and the beaver on the nickel.
canada: The leader of the party with the second-most seats usually becomes the leader of the Official Opposition and is part of an adversarial parliamentary system intended to keep the government in check.
canada: Canada is additionally one of the world's largest suppliers of agricultural products; the Canadian Prairies region is one of the most important global producers of wheat, canola, and other grains.
canada: Canada leads the world in refugee resettlement; it resettled more than 47,600 in 2022.
canada: Bibliography of Canada
List of Canada-related topics by provinces and territories
Outline of Canada
canada: Provincial legislatures are unicameral and operate in parliamentary fashion similar to the House of Commons.
