carbon_cycle: The deep ocean gets most of its nutrients from the higher water column when they sink down in the form of marine snow.
carbon_cycle: Both of these replacement land cover types store comparatively small amounts of carbon so that the net result of the transition is that more carbon stays in the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: Atmosphere
Terrestrial biosphere
Ocean, including dissolved inorganic carbon and living and non-living marine biota
Sediments, including fossil fuels, freshwater systems, and non-living organic material.
carbon_cycle: Once the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere falls below approximately 50 parts per million (tolerances vary among species), C3 photosynthesis will no longer be possible.
carbon_cycle: After extraction, fossil fuels are burned to release energy and emit the carbon they store into the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: The biological pump is responsible for transforming dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) into organic biomass and pumping it in particulate or dissolved form into the deep ocean.
carbon_cycle: It is strongest in the northern hemisphere because this hemisphere has more land mass than the southern hemisphere and thus more room for ecosystems to absorb and emit carbon.
carbon_cycle: At 422.7 parts per million (ppm), the global average atmospheric carbon dioxide has set a new record high in 2024.
carbon_cycle: Organic carbon stored in the geosphere can remain there for millions of years.
carbon_cycle: An ocean without the biological pump would result in atmospheric CO2 levels about 400 ppm higher than the present day.
carbon_cycle: Carbon is the main component of biological compounds as well as a major component of many rocks such as limestone.
carbon_cycle: Because the core's composition is believed to be an alloy of crystalline iron and a small amount of nickel, this seismic anomaly indicates the presence of light elements, including carbon, in the core.
carbon_cycle: The marine biological pump sequesters a small but significant fraction of the absorbed CO2 as organic carbon in marine sediments (see below).
carbon_cycle: Carbon dioxide is removed from the atmosphere primarily through photosynthesis and enters the terrestrial and oceanic biospheres.
carbon_cycle: It can also be exported into the ocean through rivers or remain sequestered in soils in the form of inert carbon.
carbon_cycle: During transport, part of DOC will rapidly return to the atmosphere through redox reactions, causing "carbon degassing" to occur between land-atmosphere storage layers.
carbon_cycle: Drilling down and physically observing deep-Earth carbon processes is evidently extremely difficult, as the lower mantle and core extend from 660 to 2,891 km and 2,891 to 6,371  km deep into the Earth respectively.
carbon_cycle: This is made up of dead or dying animals and microbes, fecal matter, sand and other inorganic material.
carbon_cycle: Carbon dioxide is released during the metamorphism of carbonate rocks when they are subducted into the Earth's mantle.
carbon_cycle: The slow or geological cycle may extend deep into the mantle and can take millions of years to complete, moving carbon through the Earth's crust between rocks, soil, ocean and atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: Humans have disturbed the carbon cycle for many centuries.
carbon_cycle: These subducted carbonates can interact with lower mantle silicates, eventually forming super-deep diamonds like the one found.
carbon_cycle: More directly, it often leads to the release of carbon from terrestrial ecosystems into the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: It can also enter the ocean through rivers as dissolved organic carbon.
carbon_cycle: The exchange between the ocean and atmosphere can take centuries, and the weathering of rocks can take millions of years.
carbon_cycle: It includes movements of carbon between the atmosphere and terrestrial and marine ecosystems, as well as soils and seafloor sediments.
carbon_cycle: Most carbon incorporated in organic and inorganic biological matter is formed at the sea surface where it can then start sinking to the ocean floor.
carbon_cycle: Other major biogeochemical cycles include the nitrogen cycle and the water cycle.
carbon_cycle: However, the effects on the atmosphere and overall carbon cycle can be intentionally and/or naturally reversed with reforestation.
carbon_cycle: The lack of volcanoes pumping out carbon dioxide will cause the carbon cycle to end between 1 billion and 2 billion years into the future.
carbon_cycle: However, through processes such as coagulation and expulsion in predator fecal pellets, these cells form aggregates.
carbon_cycle: The carbon exchanges between reservoirs occur as the result of various chemical, physical, geological, and biological processes.
carbon_cycle: However, this is less than one percent of the carbon dioxide put into the atmosphere by burning fossil fuels.
carbon_cycle: Nevertheless, estuarine waters are a source of CO2 to the atmosphere, globally.
carbon_cycle: There is a fast and a slow carbon cycle.
carbon_cycle: Larger zooplankton - such as copepods, egest fecal pellets - which can be reingested, and sink or collect with other organic detritus into larger, more-rapidly-sinking aggregates.
carbon_cycle: Clinker is an industrial precursor of cement.
carbon_cycle: Halocarbons are less prolific compounds developed for diverse uses throughout industry; for example as solvents and refrigerants.
carbon_cycle: It also can acidify other surfaces it touches or be washed into the ocean.
carbon_cycle: The fast cycle includes annual cycles involving photosynthesis and decadal cycles involving vegetative growth and decomposition.
carbon_cycle: Thermohaline circulation returns deep-ocean DIC to the atmosphere on millennial timescales.
carbon_cycle: Accordingly, not much is conclusively known regarding the role of carbon in the deep Earth.
carbon_cycle: The carbon buried in the sediments can be subducted into the Earth's mantle and stored for millions of years as part of the slow carbon cycle (see next section).
carbon_cycle: Continental shelves and the open ocean typically absorb CO2 from the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: The biological pump is not so much the result of a single process, but rather the sum of a number of processes each of which can influence biological pumping.
carbon_cycle: These carbon stores interact with the other components through geological processes.
carbon_cycle: This will eventually cause most of the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere to be squelched into the Earth's crust as carbonate.
carbon_cycle: Mountain building processes result in the return of this geologic carbon to the Earth's surface.
carbon_cycle: Over the past 2,000 years, anthropogenic activities and climate change have gradually altered the regulatory role of viruses in ecosystem carbon cycling processes.
carbon_cycle: Carbon enters the ocean mainly through the dissolution of atmospheric carbon dioxide, a small fraction of which is converted into carbonate.
carbon_cycle: These sinks have been expected and observed to remove about half of the added atmospheric carbon within about a century.
carbon_cycle: The net effect of these processes is to remove carbon in organic form from the surface and return it to DIC at greater depths, maintaining a surface-to-deep ocean gradient of DIC.
carbon_cycle: Carbon principally enters the mantle in the form of carbonate-rich sediments on tectonic plates of ocean crust, which pull the carbon into the mantle upon undergoing subduction.
carbon_cycle: Carbon dioxide also dissolves directly from the atmosphere into bodies of water (ocean, lakes, etc.), as well as dissolving in precipitation as raindrops fall through the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: Both of these gases absorb and retain heat in the atmosphere and are partially responsible for the greenhouse effect.
carbon_cycle: Carbon dioxide is critical for photosynthesis.
carbon_cycle: In a given year between 10 and 100 million tonnes of carbon moves around this slow cycle.
carbon_cycle: Arctic methane emissions indirectly caused by anthropogenic global warming also affect the carbon cycle and contribute to further warming.
carbon_cycle: The ocean can be conceptually divided into a surface layer within which water makes frequent (daily to annual) contact with the atmosphere, and a deep layer below the typical mixed layer depth of a few hundred meters or less, within which the time between consecutive contacts may be centuries.
carbon_cycle: The remaining 20% is stored as kerogens formed through the sedimentation and burial of terrestrial organisms under high heat and pressure.
carbon_cycle: As of 2020, about 450 gigatons of fossil carbon have been extracted in total; an amount approaching the carbon contained in all of Earth's living terrestrial biomass.
carbon_cycle: Slow or geological cycles (also called deep carbon cycle) can take millions of years to complete, moving substances through the Earth's crust between rocks, soil, ocean and atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: Furthermore, another study found that in the pressure and temperature condition of the Earth's inner core, carbon dissolved in iron and formed a stable phase with the same Fe7C3 composition—albeit with a different structure from the one previously mentioned.
carbon_cycle: Of the carbon stored in the geosphere, about 80% is limestone and its derivatives, which form from the sedimentation of calcium carbonate stored in the shells of marine organisms.
carbon_cycle: DOM and aggregates exported into the deep water are consumed and respired, thus returning organic carbon into the enormous deep ocean reservoir of DIC.
carbon_cycle: It can then be absorbed by rocks through weathering.
carbon_cycle: Carbon is oxidised upon its ascent towards volcanic hotspots, where it is then released as CO2.
carbon_cycle: Carbon stored in soil can remain there for up to thousands of years before being washed into rivers by erosion or released into the atmosphere through soil respiration.
carbon_cycle: Thus, carbon dioxide contributes more to the global greenhouse effect than methane.
carbon_cycle: It is converted by organisms into organic carbon through photosynthesis and can either be exchanged throughout the food chain or precipitated into the oceans' deeper, more carbon-rich layers as dead soft tissue or in shells as calcium carbonate.
carbon_cycle: Fast cycles can complete within years, moving substances from atmosphere to biosphere, then back to the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: When dissolved in water, carbon dioxide reacts with water molecules and forms carbonic acid, which contributes to ocean acidity.
carbon_cycle: The carbon cycle is a part of the biogeochemical cycle where carbon is exchanged among the biosphere, pedosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere, and atmosphere of Earth.
carbon_cycle: Carbon in the ocean precipitates to the ocean floor where it can form sedimentary rock and be subducted into the Earth's mantle.
carbon_cycle: In 2015, inorganic and organic carbon export fluxes from global rivers were assessed as 0.50–0.70 Pg C y−1 and 0.15–0.35 Pg C y−1 respectively.
carbon_cycle: This has been particularly conspicuous over the past 200 years due to rapid industrialization and the attendant population growth.
carbon_cycle: Carbon dioxide is also produced and released during the calcination of limestone for clinker production.
carbon_cycle: For some applications more benign alternatives such as hydrofluoroolefins have been developed and are being gradually introduced.
carbon_cycle: The fast or biological cycle can complete within years, moving carbon from atmosphere to biosphere, then back to the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: Raindrops absorb organic and inorganic carbon through particle scavenging and adsorption of organic vapors while falling toward Earth.
carbon_cycle: Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased nearly 52% over pre-industrial levels by 2020, resulting in global warming.
carbon_cycle: The ocean biological pump is the ocean's biologically driven sequestration of carbon from the atmosphere and land runoff to the deep ocean interior and seafloor sediments.
carbon_cycle: Nonetheless, several pieces of evidence—many of which come from laboratory simulations of deep Earth conditions—have indicated mechanisms for the element's movement down into the lower mantle, as well as the forms that carbon takes at the extreme temperatures and pressures of said layer.
carbon_cycle: Autotrophs extract it from the air in the form of carbon dioxide, converting it to organic carbon, while heterotrophs receive carbon by consuming other organisms.
carbon_cycle: Shear (S) waves moving through the inner core travel at about fifty percent of the velocity expected for most iron-rich alloys.
carbon_cycle: Over the past several centuries, direct and indirect human-caused land use and land cover change (LUCC) has led to the loss of biodiversity, which lowers ecosystems' resilience to environmental stresses and decreases their ability to remove carbon from the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: The deep carbon cycle is intimately connected to the movement of carbon in the Earth's surface and atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: A 2015 study indicates that the lower mantle's high pressure causes carbon bonds to transition from sp2 to sp3 hybridised orbitals, resulting in carbon tetrahedrally bonding to oxygen.
carbon_cycle: They have done so by modifying land use and by mining and burning carbon from ancient organic remains (coal, petroleum and gas).
carbon_cycle: Doing so resulted in the formations of magnesite, siderite, and numerous varieties of graphite.
carbon_cycle: Carbon leaves the terrestrial biosphere in several ways and on different time scales.
carbon_cycle: To illustrate, laboratory simulations and density functional theory calculations suggest that tetrahedrally coordinated carbonates are most stable at depths approaching the core–mantle boundary.
carbon_cycle: Terrestrially-derived macromolecules such as lignin  and black carbon  are decomposed into smaller components and monomers, ultimately being converted to CO2, metabolic intermediates, or biomass.
carbon_cycle: In fact, studying the composition of basaltic magma and measuring carbon dioxide flux out of volcanoes reveals that the amount of carbon in the mantle is actually greater than that on the Earth's surface by a factor of one thousand.
carbon_cycle: Carbon Cycle Science Program – an interagency partnership.
carbon_cycle: Marshes and wetlands are suggested to have an equivalent flux of CO2 to the atmosphere as rivers, globally.
carbon_cycle: Lakes, reservoirs, and floodplains typically store large amounts of organic carbon and sediments, but also experience net heterotrophy in the water column, resulting in a net flux of CO2 to the atmosphere that is roughly one order of magnitude less than rivers.
carbon_cycle: Oceans are basic (with a current pH value of 8.1 to 8.2).
carbon_cycle: The ocean contains the largest active pool of carbon near the surface of the Earth.
carbon_cycle: Oceanic absorption of CO2 is one of the most important forms of carbon sequestering.
carbon_cycle: The expected increased luminosity of the Sun will likely speed up the rate of surface weathering.
carbon_cycle: Water absorbs plant and settled aerosol-derived dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) as it passes over forest canopies (i.e.
carbon_cycle: A single phytoplankton cell has a sinking rate around one metre per day.
carbon_cycle: Lignin and celluloses represent as much as 80% of the organic carbon in forests and 60% in pastures.
carbon_cycle: Such changes can have dramatic effects on highly sensitive ecosystems such as coral reefs, thus limiting the ocean's ability to absorb carbon from the atmosphere on a regional scale and reducing oceanic biodiversity globally.
carbon_cycle: Litterfall and root organic carbon mix with sedimentary material to form organic soils where plant-derived and petrogenic organic carbon is both stored and transformed by microbial and fungal activity.
carbon_cycle: Biogeochemical transformations take place as water soaks into soil solution and groundwater reservoirs and overland flow occurs when soils are completely saturated, or rainfall occurs more rapidly than saturation into soils.
carbon_cycle: NOAA's Carbon Cycle Greenhouse Gases Group
Global Carbon Project – initiative of the Earth System Science Partnership
UNEP – The present carbon cycle – Climate Change Archived 15 September 2008 at the Wayback Machine carbon levels and flows
carbon_cycle: The fast cycle operates in the biosphere and the slow cycle operates in rocks.
carbon_cycle: Terrestrial and marine ecosystems are chiefly connected through riverine transport, which acts as the main channel through which erosive terrestrially derived substances enter into oceanic systems.
carbon_cycle: Atmospheric particles act as cloud condensation nuclei, promoting cloud formation.
carbon_cycle: Methane production is also typically high in the anoxic sediments of floodplains, lakes, and reservoirs.
carbon_cycle: Polymorphism alters carbonate compounds' stability at different depths within the Earth.
carbon_cycle: Deforestation for agricultural purposes removes forests, which hold large amounts of carbon, and replaces them, generally with agricultural or urban areas.
carbon_cycle: In CO2 measurements, this feature is apparent in the Keeling curve.
carbon_cycle: Nevertheless, sinks like the ocean have evolving saturation properties, and a substantial fraction (20–35%, based on coupled models) of the added carbon is projected to remain in the atmosphere for centuries to millennia.
carbon_cycle: Methane produces a larger greenhouse effect per volume as compared to carbon dioxide, but it exists in much lower concentrations and is more short-lived than carbon dioxide.
carbon_cycle: The natural flows of carbon between the atmosphere, ocean, terrestrial ecosystems, and sediments are fairly balanced; so carbon levels would be roughly stable without human influence.
carbon_cycle: Other geologic carbon returns to the ocean through the hydrothermal emission of calcium ions.
carbon_cycle: Other experiments—as well as petrologic observations—support this claim, indicating that magnesite is actually the most stable carbonate phase in most part of the mantle.
carbon_cycle: Much of the carbon stored in the Earth's mantle was stored there when the Earth formed.
carbon_cycle: The degree to which they will weaken, however, is highly uncertain, with Earth system models predicting a wide range of land and ocean carbon uptakes even under identical atmospheric concentration or emission scenarios.
carbon_cycle: Between 1989 and 2008 soil respiration increased by about 0.1% per year.
carbon_cycle: The largest and one of the fastest growing human impacts on the carbon cycle and biosphere is the extraction and burning of fossil fuels, which directly transfer carbon from the geosphere into the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: Some of it was deposited in the form of organic carbon from the biosphere.
carbon_cycle: Organic carbon derived from the terrestrial biosphere and in situ primary production is decomposed by microbial communities in rivers and streams along with physical decomposition (i.e.
carbon_cycle: The pump transfers about 11 billion tonnes of carbon every year into the ocean's interior.
carbon_cycle: Earth's interior (mantle and crust).
carbon_cycle: The average contribution of viruses to the Earth ecosystem carbon cycle is 8.6%, of which its contribution to marine ecosystems (1.4%) is less than its contribution to terrestrial (6.7%) and freshwater (17.8%) ecosystems.
carbon_cycle: The remaining DOC and dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) are also exported to the ocean.
carbon_cycle: In summary, although the amount of carbon potentially stored in the Earth's core is not known, recent studies indicate that the presence of iron carbides can explain some of the geophysical observations.
carbon_cycle: Climate change is amplifying and forcing further indirect human changes to the carbon cycle as a consequence of various positive and negative feedbacks.
carbon_cycle: If the process did not exist, carbon would remain in the atmosphere, where it would accumulate to extremely high levels over long periods of time.
carbon_cycle: Organic carbon is a major component of all organisms living on Earth.
carbon_cycle: throughfall) and along plant trunks/stems (i.e.
carbon_cycle: Current trends in climate change lead to higher ocean temperatures and acidity, thus modifying marine ecosystems.
carbon_cycle: Also, acid rain and polluted runoff from agriculture and industry change the ocean's chemical composition.
carbon_cycle: To describe the dynamics of the carbon cycle, a distinction can be made between the fast and slow carbon cycle.
carbon_cycle: In the far future (2 to 3 billion years), the rate at which carbon dioxide is absorbed into the soil via the carbonate–silicate cycle will likely increase due to expected changes in the Sun as it ages.
carbon_cycle: There are a few plausible explanations for this trend, but the most likely explanation is that increasing temperatures have increased rates of decomposition of soil organic matter, which has increased the flow of CO2.
carbon_cycle: In fact, studies using diamond anvil cells to replicate the conditions in the Earth's core indicate that iron carbide (Fe7C3) matches the inner core's wave speed and density.
carbon_cycle: Humans have also continued to shift the natural component functions of the terrestrial biosphere with changes to vegetation and other land use.
carbon_cycle: black carbon) that is returned to the atmosphere along with greenhouse gases such as CO2.
carbon_cycle: Burning and volcanic eruptions produce highly condensed polycyclic aromatic molecules (i.e.
carbon_cycle: On the other hand, POC can remain buried in sediment over an extensive period, and the annual global terrestrial to oceanic POC flux has been estimated at 0.20 (+0.13,-0.07) Gg C y−1.
carbon_cycle: The combustion or respiration of organic carbon releases it rapidly into the atmosphere.
carbon_cycle: Most carbon in the terrestrial biosphere is organic carbon,  while about a third of soil carbon is stored in inorganic forms, such as calcium carbonate.
carbon_cycle: It circulates in this layer for long periods of time before either being deposited as sediment or, eventually, returned to the surface waters through thermohaline circulation.
carbon_cycle: The increased carbon dioxide has also caused a reduction in the ocean's pH value and is fundamentally altering marine chemistry.
carbon_cycle: The slow (or deep) carbon cycle involves medium to long-term geochemical processes belonging to the rock cycle (see diagram on the right).
carbon_cycle: Furthermore, techniques like seismology have led to a greater understanding of the potential presence of carbon in the Earth's core.
carbon_cycle: Since the invention of agriculture, humans have directly and gradually influenced the carbon cycle over century-long timescales by modifying the mixture of vegetation in the terrestrial biosphere.
carbon_cycle: The fast cycle is also referred to as the biological carbon cycle.
carbon_cycle: In 2011, carbonates were subjected to an environment similar to that of 1800 km deep into the Earth, well within the lower mantle.
carbon_cycle: It can also be removed by humans through the direct extraction of kerogens in the form of fossil fuels.
carbon_cycle: Carbon sinks in the land and the ocean each currently take up about one-quarter of anthropogenic carbon emissions each year.
carbon_cycle: Since the Industrial Revolution, and especially since the end of WWII, human activity has substantially disturbed the global carbon cycle by redistributing massive amounts of carbon from the geosphere.
carbon_cycle: About 1% of the particles leaving the surface ocean reach the seabed and are consumed, respired, or buried in the sediments.
carbon_cycle: The exchanges of carbon between the atmosphere and other components of the Earth system, collectively known as the carbon cycle, currently constitute important negative (dampening) feedbacks on the effect of anthropogenic carbon emissions on climate change.
carbon_cycle: Carbon can leave the geosphere in several ways.
carbon_cycle: This includes volcanoes returning geologic carbon directly to the atmosphere in the form of carbon dioxide.
carbon_cycle: Thus, the investigation's findings indicate that pieces of basaltic oceanic lithosphere act as the principle transport mechanism for carbon to Earth's deep interior.
carbon_cycle: Carbon in the Earth's atmosphere exists in two main forms: carbon dioxide and methane.
carbon_cycle: The geologic component of the carbon cycle operates slowly in comparison to the other parts of the global carbon cycle.
carbon_cycle: The study analyzed rare, super-deep diamonds at a site in Juina, Brazil, determining that the bulk composition of some of the diamonds' inclusions matched the expected result of basalt melting and crystallisation under lower mantle temperatures and pressures.
carbon_cycle: Slow or deep carbon cycling is an important process, though it is not as well-understood as the relatively fast carbon movement through the atmosphere, terrestrial biosphere, ocean, and geosphere.
carbon_cycle: Primary production is typically enhanced in river plumes due to the export of fluvial nutrients.
carbon_cycle: The projected rate of pH reduction could slow the biological precipitation of calcium carbonates, thus decreasing the ocean's capacity to absorb CO2.
carbon_cycle: photo-oxidation), resulting in a flux of CO2 from rivers to the atmosphere that are the same order of magnitude as the amount of carbon sequestered annually by the terrestrial biosphere.
carbon_cycle: The presence of reduced, elemental forms of carbon like graphite would indicate that carbon compounds are reduced as they descend into the mantle.
carbon_cycle: Given that the average depth of the ocean is about four kilometres, it can take over ten years for these cells to reach the ocean floor.
carbon_cycle: Man-made (synthetic) carbon compounds have been designed and mass-manufactured that will persist for decades to millennia in air, water, and sediments as pollutants.
carbon_cycle: This is largely a result of its higher melting temperature.
carbon_cycle: As an example, preliminary theoretical studies suggest that high pressure causes carbonate melt viscosity to increase; the melts' lower mobility as a result of its increased viscosity causes large deposits of carbon deep into the mantle.
carbon_cycle: This process, called carbon outgassing, is the result of carbonated mantle undergoing decompression melting, as well as mantle plumes carrying carbon compounds up towards the crust.
carbon_cycle: The terrestrial biosphere includes the organic carbon in all land-living organisms, both alive and dead, as well as carbon stored in soils.
carbon_cycle: The movement of terrestrial carbon in the water cycle is shown in the diagram on the right and explained below:
carbon_cycle: However, carbonates descending to the lower mantle encounter other fates in addition to forming diamonds.
carbon_cycle: Therefore, by allowing carbon to return to the Earth, the deep carbon cycle plays a critical role in maintaining the terrestrial conditions necessary for life to exist.
carbon_cycle: Because carbon uptake in the terrestrial biosphere is dependent on biotic factors, it follows a diurnal and seasonal cycle.
carbon_cycle: Consequently, scientists have concluded that carbonates undergo reduction as they descend into the mantle before being stabilised at depth by low oxygen fugacity environments.
carbon_cycle: This carbon dioxide can be released into the atmosphere and ocean through volcanoes and hotspots.
carbon_cycle: DOM is partially consumed by bacteria and respired; the remaining refractory DOM is advected and mixed into the deep sea.
carbon_cycle: Once the oceans on the Earth evaporate in about 1.1 billion years from now, plate tectonics will very likely stop due to the lack of water to lubricate them.
carbon_cycle: This occurs so that the carbon atom matches the oxidation state of the basalts erupting in such areas.
carbon_cycle: These feedbacks are expected to weaken in the future, amplifying the effect of anthropogenic carbon emissions on climate change.
carbon_cycle: Terrestrial plants fix atmospheric CO2 through photosynthesis, returning a fraction back to the atmosphere through respiration.
carbon_cycle: The reactions of the fast carbon cycle to human activities will determine many of the more immediate impacts of climate change.
carbon_cycle: About 500 gigatons of carbon are stored above ground in plants and other living organisms, while soil holds approximately 1,500 gigatons of carbon.
carbon_cycle: Chlorofluorocarbons also cause stratospheric ozone depletion.
carbon_cycle: This has been predicted to occur 600 million years from the present, though models vary.
carbon_cycle: It describes the movement of carbon as it is recycled and reused throughout the biosphere, as well as long-term processes of carbon sequestration (storage) to and release from carbon sinks.
carbon_cycle: Material and energy exchanges between the terrestrial biosphere and the lithosphere as well as organic carbon fixation and oxidation processes together regulate ecosystem carbon and dioxygen (O2) pools.
carbon_cycle: Furthermore, the process is also significant simply due to the massive quantities of carbon it transports through the planet.
carbon_cycle: There the rocks are weathered and carbon is returned to the atmosphere by degassing and to the ocean by rivers.
carbon_cycle: Therefore, the iron carbide model could serve as an evidence that the core holds as much as 67% of the Earth's carbon.
carbon_cycle: Recent rates of global emissions directly into the atmosphere have exceeded the uptake by vegetation and the oceans.
carbon_cycle: The global carbon cycle is now usually divided into the following major reservoirs of carbon (also called carbon pools) interconnected by pathways of exchange:
carbon_cycle: The dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) in the surface layer is exchanged rapidly with the atmosphere, maintaining equilibrium.
carbon_cycle: Not much is known about carbon circulation in the mantle, especially in the deep Earth, but many studies have attempted to augment our understanding of the element's movement and forms within the region.
carbon_cycle: For instance, a 2011 study demonstrated that carbon cycling extends all the way to the lower mantle.
carbon_cycle: International efforts are ongoing under the Montreal Protocol and Kyoto Protocol to control rapid growth in the industrial manufacturing and use of these environmentally potent gases.
carbon_cycle: It is one of the most important determinants of the amount of carbon in the atmosphere, and thus of global temperatures.
carbon_cycle: Most of the Earth's carbon is stored inertly in the Earth's lithosphere.
carbon_cycle: Accordingly, carbon can remain in the lower mantle for long periods of time, but large concentrations of carbon frequently find their way back to the lithosphere.
carbon_cycle: Inorganic nutrients and carbon dioxide are fixed during photosynthesis by phytoplankton, which both release dissolved organic matter (DOM) and are consumed by herbivorous zooplankton.
carbon_cycle: CO3 trigonal groups cannot form polymerisable networks, while tetrahedral CO4 can, signifying an increase in carbon's coordination number, and therefore drastic changes in carbonate compounds' properties in the lower mantle.
carbon_cycle: Magnesium, iron, and other metallic compounds act as buffers throughout the process.
carbon_cycle: Riverine transport, being the main connective channel of these pools, will act to transport net primary productivity (primarily in the form of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and particulate organic carbon (POC)) from terrestrial to oceanic systems.
carbon_cycle: These aggregates have sinking rates orders of magnitude greater than individual cells and complete their journey to the deep in a matter of days.
carbon_cycle: The carbon cycle comprises a sequence of events that are key to making Earth capable of sustaining life.
carbon_cycle: The increase in atmospheric CO2 shifts the pH of the ocean towards neutral in a process called ocean acidification.
carbon_cycle: The fast carbon cycle involves relatively short-term biogeochemical processes between the environment and living organisms in the biosphere (see diagram at start of article).
carbon_cycle: Coastal marshes both store and export blue carbon.
carbon_cycle: The length of carbon sequestering in soil is dependent on local climatic conditions and thus changes in the course of climate change.
