caribbean: ISBN 0-201-52396-5
Langley, Lester D.
caribbean: Spain abolished slavery in its empire in 1811, with the exceptions of Cuba, Puerto Rico, and Santo Domingo.
caribbean: For the fungi, there is a checklist based on nearly 90,000 records derived from specimens in reference collections, published accounts, and field observations.
caribbean: Warm, moist trade winds blow consistently from the east, creating both rain forest and semi arid climates across the region.
caribbean: Diversity Amid Globalization: World Regions, Environment, Development, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Pearson Prentice Hall, 4th edition, 2009.
caribbean: ISBN 0-8133-2242-1
Palmié, Stephan, and Francisco A.
caribbean: Text taken from Global Forest Resources Assessment 2025​, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
caribbean: Slavery was not abolished in Cuba until 1886.
caribbean: The Caribbean was known for pirates, especially between 1640 and 1680.
caribbean: The threatened animals include the Puerto Rican amazon, two species of solenodon (giant shrews) in Cuba and Hispaniola, and the Cuban crocodile.
caribbean: Media related to Caribbean at Wikimedia Commons
caribbean: The two most prevalent pronunciations of "Caribbean" outside the Caribbean are  (KARR-ə-BEE-ən), with the primary stress on the third syllable, and  (kə-RIB-ee-ən), with the stress on the second.
caribbean: Whether an Ortoiroid colonization of the islands took place is uncertain, but there is little evidence of one.
caribbean: Consistent dates of 3100 BC appear in Cuba.
caribbean: The decline of the export industries meant a need to diversify the economies of the Caribbean territories.
caribbean: Estimates have been made for endemic fungal species on some Caribbean islands.
caribbean: The African Union-bloc has referred to the Caribbean as the potential "Sixth Region" of the African Union.
caribbean: Palmer, eds.
caribbean: DNA studies changed some of the traditional beliefs about pre-Columbian indigenous history.
caribbean: The region also contains about 8% (by surface area) of the world's coral reefs along with extensive seagrass meadows, often found in the shallow marine waters bordering the region's island and continental coasts.
caribbean: For Cuba, 2,200 species of fungi have been tentatively identified as possible endemics of the island; for Puerto Rico, the number is 789; for the Dominican Republic, 699; for Trinidad and Tobago, 407.
caribbean: Arawak peoples
Igneri
Taíno
Caquetio people
Ciboney
Ciguayo
Garifuna
Kalina
Kalinago
Lucayan
Macorix
Raizal
caribbean: Trinidad and Tobago has a multiracial cosmopolitan society due to the arrivals of Africans, Indians, Chinese, Arabs and Europeans along with the native indigenous Amerindians population.
caribbean: It has been suggested that speakers of British English prefer  (KARR-ə-BEE-ən) while North American speakers more typically use  (kə-RIB-ee-ən), but major American dictionaries and other sources list the stress on the third syllable as more common in American English too.
caribbean: As with the coastal areas of the mainland, Guyana, Suriname, and French Guiana, even if they do not border the Caribbean Sea, are often completely included within the Caribbean due to their strong political and cultural ties with the region.
caribbean: Sugar was produced from sugarcane for export to Europe.
caribbean: Kitts and Nevis (1983).
caribbean: Patterns of foreign influence in the Caribbean, Oxford University Press, 1972.
caribbean: The Oxford Online Dictionaries claim the stress on the second syllable is the most common pronunciation in the Caribbean itself, but according to the Dictionary of Caribbean English Usage, the most common pronunciation in Caribbean English stresses the first syllable instead,  (KARR-ih-bee-an).
caribbean: The university consists of three main campuses in Jamaica, Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago, a smaller campus in The Bahamas and Resident Tutors in other contributing territories such as Trinidad.
caribbean: To the south lies the coastline of the continent of South America.
caribbean: The earliest archaeological evidence of human settlement in Hispaniola dates to about 3600 BC, but the reliability of these finds is questioned.
caribbean: occupations of Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
caribbean: These pre-ceramic sites, which belong to the Archaic (pre-ceramic) age, have been termed Ortoiroid.
caribbean: Jamaica was ceded to England by Spain while both Martinique and the western third of Hispaniola were ceded to France.
caribbean: These islands include Aruba (which has minor volcanic features), Curaçao, Barbados, Bonaire, the Cayman Islands, Saint Croix, The Bahamas, and Antigua.
caribbean: Some scholars believe that regionalism cannot exist in the Caribbean because each small state is unique.
caribbean: Most of their ancestors arrived in the 19th century as indentured laborers.
caribbean: Similar populations can be found in the Caricom states of Belize, Guyana, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago.
caribbean: The population of the Caribbean is estimated to have been about 750,000 before European contact.
caribbean: The successes of region-building initiatives are still debated by scholars, yet regionalism remains prevalent throughout the Caribbean.
caribbean: On the Cayman Islands, Aruba and Belize mixed-race people form the majority of the population.
caribbean: Some farmers have faced increased pressure to turn toward the cultivation of illegal drugs, which has a higher profit margin and fills the sizable demand for these illegal drugs in North America and Europe.
caribbean: Physiographically, the Caribbean region is mainly a chain of islands surrounding the Caribbean Sea.
caribbean: Hurricanes that sometimes batter the region usually strike northward of Grenada and to the west of Barbados.
caribbean: Cuba: at Latitude 22°N
caribbean: The Open Campus has 42 physical sites in 16 Anglophone Caribbean countries.
caribbean: The Caribbean region was war-torn throughout much of its colonial history, but the wars were often based in Europe, with only minor battles fought in the Caribbean.
caribbean: Caribbean societies are very different from other Western societies in terms of size, culture, and degree of mobility of their citizens.
caribbean: The region sits in the line of several major shipping routes with the Panama Canal connecting the western Caribbean Sea with the Pacific Ocean.
caribbean: The Portuguese left Barbados abandoned years before the British arrived.
caribbean: This had a devastating impact on the population, so starting in 1503, slaves from Africa were imported to the colony.
caribbean: ISBN 978-0-7391-1167-3
Henke, Holger, and Fred Reno, eds.
caribbean: Lanham, Maryland: Lexington Books, 2006.
caribbean: It was founded in July 1994.
caribbean: The oldest evidence of humans in the Caribbean is in southern Trinidad at Banwari Trace, where remains have been found from 7,000 years ago.
caribbean: "Proximity as well as historical ties among the Caribbean nations has led to cooperation as well as a desire for collective action".
caribbean: The so called Banana Wars in the early 20th century saw the temporary U.S.
caribbean: In 1973, the first political regionalism in the Caribbean Basin was created by advances of the English-speaking Caribbean nations through the institution known as the Caribbean Common Market and Community (CARICOM), in Guyana.
caribbean: In recent years, the Caribbean has suffered from a lack of U.S.
caribbean: Haines and Richard Hall Steckel (Eds.), Cambridge University Press, 2000, ISBN 0-521-49666-7.
caribbean: This is the older of the two pronunciations, but the stressed-second-syllable variant has been established for over 75 years.
caribbean: The archipelago of Bermuda is not part of the Caribbean, as it lies in the Sargasso Sea to the north, but it is an associate member of the Caribbean Community.
caribbean: Colonial rivalries made the Caribbean a battleground for European wars for centuries.
caribbean: Cuba became independent in 1898 following American intervention in the War of Independence during the Spanish-American war.
caribbean: Maarten's airport for landings over Maho Beach
The naturally occurring, strikingly pointed Piton peaks in St.
caribbean: The independent countries formerly part of the B.W.I.
caribbean: security and economic interests have been focused on other areas.
caribbean: ISBN 9780340763636
de Kadt, Emanuel, (editor).
caribbean: Others possess rugged towering mountain-ranges like the islands of Saint Martin, Cuba, Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, Dominica, Montserrat, Saba, Sint Eustatius, Saint Kitts, Saint Lucia, Saint Thomas, Saint John, Tortola, Grenada, Saint Vincent, Guadeloupe, Martinique and Trinidad and Tobago.
caribbean: The Caribbean: A History of the Region and Its Peoples (University of Chicago Press; 2011); 660 pp.; writings on the region since the pre-Columbian era.
caribbean: Britain abolished the slave trade in 1807, and slavery proper in 1833.
caribbean: Through coalition building, like the ACS and CARICOM, regionalism has become an undeniable part of the politics and economics of the Caribbean.
caribbean: A lack of pre-ceramic sites in the Windward Islands and differences in technology suggest that these Archaic settlers may have Central American origins.
caribbean: Swedish West Indies – present-day French Saint-Barthélemy, Guadeloupe (briefly) and Tobago (briefly).
caribbean: The principal hurricane belt arcs to northwest of the island of Barbados in the Eastern Caribbean.
caribbean: From 15 December 1954 to 10 October 2010, there was a territory known as the Netherlands Antilles composed of five islands, all of which were Dutch dependencies.
caribbean: Presently, the United States, Britain, France and the Netherlands still have some Caribbean possessions.
caribbean: The West Indian cricket team includes the South American nation of Guyana, the only former British colony on the mainland of that continent.
caribbean: The influence of regionalism in the Caribbean is often marginalized.
caribbean: Following the Cold War another issue of importance in the Caribbean has been the reduced economic growth of some Caribbean States due to the United States and European Union's allegations of special treatment toward the region by each other.
caribbean: Immigrants from Britain, Italy, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Denmark also arrived, although the mortality rate was high for both groups.
caribbean: "Co-operation and development: With special reference to the experience of the Commonwealth Caribbean" ACCO, ISBN 90-334-3181-5
Gowricharn, Ruben, ed.
caribbean: The natural environmental diversity of the Caribbean islands has led to recent growth in eco-tourism.
caribbean: Santería, Palo, Umbanda, Brujería, Hoodoo, Candomblé, Quimbanda, Orisha, Xangô de Recife, Xangô do Nordeste, Comfa, Espiritismo, Santo Daime, Obeah, Abakuá, Kumina, Winti, Sanse, Cuban Vodú, Dominican Vudú, Louisiana Voodoo, Haitian Vodou, and Vodun).
caribbean: The Puerto Rico Trench, located on the fringe of the Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean Sea just to the north of the island of Puerto Rico, is the deepest point in all of the Atlantic Ocean.
caribbean: The Caribbean is sometimes considered alongside Central America as a region.
caribbean: All the islands in the Antilles, including the Lucayan Archipelago, form the West Indies, a term often interchangeable with the Caribbean.
caribbean: Generally, the Caribbean region is organized into 33 political entities, including 13 sovereign states, 12 dependencies, 7 overseas territories, and various disputed territories.
caribbean: Aruba: Latitude 12°N
caribbean: This type of tourism is growing on islands lacking sandy beaches and dense human populations.
caribbean: They were not, however, the first colonizers.
caribbean: Bordered by North America to the north and also the west through Central America, and South America to the south, it comprises numerous islands, cays, islets, reefs, and banks.
caribbean: As part of the Puerto Rico Bank and the Puerto Rico-Virgin Islands microplate, the Virgin Islands are sometimes included with the Greater Antilles.
caribbean: The climate of the area is tropical, varying from tropical rainforest in some areas to tropical monsoon and tropical savanna in others.
caribbean: The nearby northwestern Lucayan Archipelago, comprising The Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos Islands, and the island of Barbados in the Lesser Antilles, are considered to be a part of the Caribbean despite not bordering the Caribbean Sea.
caribbean: The population is estimated to have reached 2.2 million by 1800.
caribbean: ISBN 0-8203-1153-7
Maingot, Anthony P.
caribbean: Christopher Columbus arrived in the Caribbean on the island of Hispaniola in 1492.
caribbean: The Bahamas
 Turks and Caicos Islands (United Kingdom)
Greater Antilles
caribbean: The tourism industry started developing in the early 20th century, rapidly developing in the 1960s when regular international flights made vacations affordable and is now a $50 billion industry.
caribbean: The northern islands, like The Bahamas, Cuba, Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic, may be influenced by continental masses during winter months, such as cold fronts.
caribbean: The Spanish-speaking Caribbean populations are primarily of European, African, or racially mixed origins.
caribbean: The Modern Caribbean (The University of North Carolina Press, 1989).
caribbean: On many islands they encountered a foraging people who arrived some 6,000 or 7,000 years ago ...
caribbean: Trinidad Orisha), Afro-American religions, (incl.
caribbean: While the region generally is sunny much of the year, the wet season from May through November sees more frequent cloud cover (both broken and overcast), while the dry season from December through April is more often clear to mostly sunny.
caribbean: Maarten in 2010.
caribbean: Arid climates are found along the extreme northern coast of Venezuela out to the islands including Aruba and Curaçao, as well as the northwestern tip of Yucatán.
caribbean: This is a result of years of importation of slaves and indentured laborers, and migration.
caribbean: Vincent and the Grenadines (1979), Belize (1981) Antigua and Barbuda (1981), and St.
caribbean: According to the American version of Oxford Online Dictionaries, the stress on the second syllable is becoming more common in UK English and is increasingly considered "by some" to be more up to date and more "correct".
caribbean: The tropical rainforest climates include lowland areas near the Caribbean Sea from Costa Rica north to Belize, as well as the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico, while the more seasonal dry tropical savanna climates are found in Cuba, northern Colombia and Venezuela, and southern Yucatán, Mexico.
caribbean: Some Caribbean islands have terrain that Europeans found suitable for cultivation for agriculture.
caribbean: This multiracial mix has created sub-ethnicities that often straddle the boundaries of major ethnicities, such as the Mulatto-Creole, Mestizo, Pardo, Zambo, Dougla, Chindian, Afro-Asians, Eurasian, and Cocoa panyols.
caribbean: Modern Political Culture in the Caribbean.
caribbean: Many ecosystems in the Caribbean islands have been affected by deforestation, pollution, and human encroachment.
caribbean: Other religions in the region are Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Buddhism, Chinese folk religion (incl.
caribbean: Seasonally, monthly mean temperatures vary from about 5 C (7 F) in the northern most regions, to less than 3 C in the southernmost areas of the Caribbean.
caribbean: According to National Geographic, "studies confirm that a wave of pottery-making farmers—known as Ceramic Age people—set out in canoes from the northeastern coast of South America starting some 2,500 years ago and island-hopped across the Caribbean.
caribbean: While early slave traders were Portuguese and Spanish, known as the First Atlantic System, by the 17th century the trade became dominated by British, French, and Dutch merchants.
caribbean: Tobacco was an important early crop during the colonial era, but was eventually overtaken by sugarcane production as the region's staple crop.
caribbean: ISBN 976-640-135-7
Heuman, Gad.
caribbean: One of the most important associations that deal with regionalism amongst the nations of the Caribbean Basin has been the Association of Caribbean States (ACS).
caribbean: After the Atlantic slave trade ended, the population increased naturally.
caribbean: Puerto Rico has a mixed race majority with a mixture of European-African-Native American (tri-racial), and a large White and West African (black) minority.
caribbean: Cuba has a European majority, along with a significant population of African ancestry.
caribbean: aid and investment to the Caribbean." The lack of international support for these small, relatively poor states, helped regionalism prosper.
caribbean: The first inter-regional Africa-Caribbean Community (CARICOM) Summit took place in September 2021.
caribbean: ISBN 0-19-214988-1
Knight, Franklin W.
caribbean: Addison-Wesley Publishing.
caribbean: Proposed by CARICOM in 1992, the ACS soon won the support of the other countries of the region.
caribbean: These early colonies brought gold to Europe; most specifically England, the Netherlands, and France.
caribbean: Seasonal rainfall is divided into 'dry' and 'wet' seasons, with the latter six months of the year being wetter than the first half.
caribbean: The animals, fungi, and plants are Conservation International biodiversity hotspots because of their exceptionally diverse terrestrial and marine ecosystems, ranging from montane cloud forests to tropical rainforest to cactus scrublands.
caribbean: In 1512, after pressure from Dominican friars, the Laws of Burgos were introduced by the Spanish Crown to better protect the rights of the New World natives.
caribbean: The Spanish used a form of slavery called the Encomienda, where slaves would be awarded to the conquistadors, who were charged with protecting and converting their slaves.
caribbean: Soon afterward, both Portuguese and Spanish explorers began claiming territories in Central and South America.
caribbean: In case of the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles received autonomy status within the Kingdom in 1954, with Aruba receiving its own in 1986 and Curaçao and St.
caribbean: Life expectancy in some countries of the Caribbean in 2023, according to estimation of the World Bank Group:
caribbean: Island arcs delineate the northern and eastern edges of the Caribbean Sea: the Greater Antilles in the north and the Lesser Antilles, which includes the Leeward Islands, Windward Islands, and the Leeward Antilles, to the east and south.
caribbean: Around 1300 AD a new group, the Mayoid, entered Trinidad and remained the dominant culture until Spanish settlement.
caribbean: Slavery was abolished first in the Dutch Empire in 1814.
caribbean: The Caribbean is a geo-political region in the middle of the Americas centered around the Caribbean Sea in the North Atlantic Ocean, mostly overlapping with the West Indies.
caribbean: Some Caribbean states have already moved to join Africa institutions including Barbados, Grenada, Guyana, and The Bahamas, which have all become members of the African Export Import Bank.
caribbean: Most authorities of the last century preferred the stress on the third syllable.
caribbean: still have a joint cricket team that competes in Test matches, One Day Internationals and Twenty20 Internationals.
caribbean: Courlander West Indies – Tobago (until 1691)
The British West Indies were united by the United Kingdom into a West Indies Federation between 1958 and 1962.
caribbean: Asians, especially those of Chinese, Indian descent, and Javanese Indonesians, form a significant minority in parts of the region.
caribbean: ISBN 978-0-7453-1767-0
Rowntree, Lester, Martin Lewis, Marie Price, William Wyckoff.
caribbean: Most multi-racial Jamaicans call themselves either mixed-race or brown.
caribbean: The waters of the Caribbean Sea host large, migratory schools of fish, turtles, and coral reef formations.
caribbean: The region's coral reefs, which contain about 70 species of hard corals and 500 to 700 species of reef-associated fishes, have undergone rapid decline in ecosystem integrity and are considered vulnerable to global warming and ocean acidification.
caribbean: "With the end of the Cold War, U.S.
caribbean: Some time after 250 AD another group, the Barancoid, entered Trinidad.
caribbean: ISBN 978-0-226-64506-3
Ramnarine, Tina K.
caribbean: Taoism and Confucianism), Baháʼí, Jainism, Sikhism, Kebatinan, Traditional African religions, Yoruba (incl.
caribbean: During the US/EU dispute, the United States threatened to impose large tariffs on European Union goods (up to 100%) to pressure Europe to change the agreement with the Caribbean nations in favour of the Cotonou Agreement.
caribbean: D'agostino, eds.
caribbean: The regional population was estimated at 37.5 million by 2000.
caribbean: "A Population History of the Caribbean", pp.
caribbean: On the one hand the Caribbean states are politically diverse, ranging from socialist systems toward more capitalist Westminster-style parliamentary systems.
caribbean: The geography and climate in the Caribbean region varies: Some islands in the region have relatively flat terrain of non-volcanic origin.
caribbean: A great example being recent events of Hurricane Irma devastating the island of Saint Martin during the 2017 hurricane season.
caribbean: To the north, the region is bordered by the Gulf of Mexico, the Straits of Florida and the Northern Atlantic Ocean, which lies to the east and northeast.
caribbean: Definitions of the terms Greater Antilles and Lesser Antilles often vary.
caribbean: The checklist is not exhaustive, and it is likely that the true number of fungal species already known in the Caribbean is higher.
caribbean: In the Caribbean, the area of forest increased by 55,500 hectares per year in 1990–2000, 64,200 ha per year in 2000–2015 and 14,200 ha per year in 2015–2025.
caribbean: The political systems of the Caribbean states share similar practices.
caribbean: Immigrants from India, China, Indonesia, and other countries arrived in the mid-19th century as indentured servants.
caribbean: Sea surface temperatures change little annually, normally running from 30 °C (87 °F) in the warmest months to 26 °C (76 °F) in the coolest months.
caribbean: The United States and the Caribbean: Challenges of an Asymmetrical Relationship.
caribbean: Contemporary Caribbean systems seem to reflect a "blending of traditional and modern patterns, yielding hybrid systems that exhibit significant structural variations and divergent constitutional traditions yet ultimately appear to function in similar ways".
caribbean: A Continent of Islands: Searching for the Caribbean Destiny.
caribbean: The earliest dates in the Lesser Antilles are from 2000 BC in Antigua.
caribbean: Farmers in the Caribbean have complained of falling profits and rising costs as the Lomé Convention weakens.
caribbean: Westview Press, 1994.
caribbean: The air temperature is hot much of the year, varying from 25 to 33 C (77 F to 90 F) between the wet and dry seasons.
caribbean: Certain scholars have argued both for and against generalizing the political structures of the Caribbean.
caribbean: As a result there has been a significant reduction in U.S.
caribbean: The United States and the Caribbean in the Twentieth Century.
caribbean: Caribbean Transnationalism: Migration, Pluralization, and Social Cohesion.
caribbean: From 3 January 1958 to 31 May 1962, there was also a short-lived political union called the British West Indies Federation composed of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories, all of which were then British dependencies.
caribbean: This was known as the Second Atlantic System.
caribbean: ISBN 978-0-13-600554-4
caribbean: The hotspot contains dozens of highly threatened animals (birds, mammals, and reptiles), fungi, and plants.
caribbean: Commonwealth)
Spanish Virgin Islands
 Navassa Island
Lesser Antilles
caribbean: From a political and economic perspective, regionalism serves to make Caribbean states active participants in current international affairs through collective coalitions.
caribbean: The United Nations geoscheme for the Americas presents the Caribbean as a distinct region within the Americas.
caribbean: The number of fungal species in the Caribbean, including species not yet recorded, is likely far higher, given the generally accepted estimate that only about 7% of all fungi worldwide have been discovered.
caribbean: There are also populations of European ancestry; English, French, Dutch, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish ancestry.
caribbean: West Indies Cricket Board, Antigua and Barbuda
The Caribbean World
caribbean: Hillman, Richard S., and Thomas J.
caribbean: They expanded up the Orinoco River to Trinidad, and then spread rapidly up the islands of the Caribbean.
caribbean: Sea water was pumped into shallow ponds, producing coarse salt when the water evaporated.
caribbean: There are also some locations that are arid climates with considerable drought in some years, and the peaks of mountains tend to have cooler temperate climates.
caribbean: London: Pluto Press, 2007.
caribbean: ISBN 0-8078-1825-9
Kurlansky, Mark.
caribbean: Beautiful Cosmos: Performance and Belonging in the Caribbean Diaspora.
caribbean: Most of these do not have official status, with the aforementioned Haitian Creole and Papiamento as notable exceptions.
caribbean: The Dominican Republic has the largest mixed-race population, primarily descended from Europeans, West Africans, and Amerindians.
caribbean: Regional development has contributed to attempts to subdue current problems and avoid projected problems.
caribbean: It also includes the coastal areas on the continental mainland of the Americas bordering the region from the Yucatán Peninsula in North America through Central America to the Guianas in South America.
caribbean: The term Lesser Antilles is often used to define an island arc that includes Grenada but excludes Trinidad and Tobago and the Leeward Antilles.
caribbean: London: University of Georgia Press, 4th edition, 1989.
caribbean: Following the war, Spain's last colony in the Americas, Puerto Rico, became an unincorporated territory of the United States.
caribbean: Brief Histories: The Caribbean.
caribbean: Cuba and Barbados were historically the largest producers of sugar.
caribbean: Geopolitically, the islands of the Caribbean are often regarded as a subregion of North America, though sometimes they are included in Middle America, or regarded as its own subregion as the Caribbean.
caribbean: The southern Lesser Antilles, including Martinique and Trinidad, were inhabited by both Carib-speaking and Arawak-speaking groups.
caribbean: Other islands were found to have terrain unsuited for agriculture, for example Dominica, which remains heavily forested.
caribbean: The current economic and political problems the states face individually are common to all Caribbean states.
caribbean: Some wars, however, were born of political turmoil in the Caribbean itself.
caribbean: Almost every Caribbean country has a distinct creole language or dialect that serves as its vernacular language.
caribbean: Scarano, eds.
caribbean: and Colin A.
caribbean: Other languages such as Caribbean Hindustani, Chinese, Javanese, Arabic, Hmong, Amerindian languages, other African languages, other European languages, and other Indian languages like Telugu are also spoken.
caribbean: Cuba
 Cayman Islands (United Kingdom)
 Jamaica
Hispaniola
 Haiti
 Dominican Republic
 Puerto Rico (U.S.
caribbean: These attempts at regionalization reflect the nations' desires to compete in the international economic system.
caribbean: The U.S also took control of Cuba.
caribbean: Furthermore, a lack of interest from other major states promoted regionalism in the region.
caribbean: Spanish (64%), French (25%), English (14%), Dutch, Haitian Creole, and Papiamento are the predominant official languages of various countries in the region.
caribbean: Licensed under CC BY 4.0 (license statement/permission).
caribbean: Understanding the Contemporary Caribbean, London: Lynne Rienner, 2003 ISBN 1-58826-663-X.
caribbean: Its principal ones are geographical and political.
caribbean: These nations hoped to establish profitable colonies in the Caribbean.
caribbean: According to a UNEP report, the Caribbean coral reefs might go extinct in next 20 years due to human population explosion along the coastlines, overfishing, pollution of coastal areas, and global warming.
caribbean: All islands at some point were, and a few still are, colonies of European nations; a few are overseas or dependent territories:
caribbean: The term "buccaneer" is often used to describe a pirate operating in this region.
caribbean: The islands in the southern Lesser Antilles, Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao, are extremely arid, making them unsuitable for agriculture, but they have salt pans that were exploited by the Dutch.
caribbean: The word Caribbean has multiple uses.
caribbean: would again intervene militarily into Caribbean countries including Cuba, the Dominican Republic and Grenada.
caribbean: France abolished slavery in its colonies in 1848.
caribbean: It includes more than 11,250 species of fungi recorded in the region.
caribbean: Other scholars argue that these differences are superficial, and that they tend to undermine commonalities in the various Caribbean states.
caribbean: The tropical plantation system came to dominate Caribbean settlement.
caribbean: Between the 1960s and '80s, most of the British holdings in the Caribbean achieved political independence, starting with Jamaica in 1962, then Trinidad and Tobago (1962), Guyana (1966), Barbados (1966), The Bahamas (1973), Grenada (1974), Dominica (1978), St.
caribbean: The Barancoid society collapsed along the Orinoco around 650 AD and another group, the Arauquinoid, expanded into these areas and up the Caribbean chain.
caribbean: Lucia (1979), St.
caribbean: Hurricane season is from June to November, but they occur more frequently in August and September and more common in the northern islands of the Caribbean.
caribbean: London: Hodder Arnold, 2006.
caribbean: Indians form a plurality of the population in Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, and Suriname.
caribbean: Christianity is the predominant religion in the Caribbean (84.7%).
caribbean: The air temperature is warm year round, in the 70s, 80s and 90s, and varies from winter to summer about 2–5 degrees on the southern islands and about a 10–20 degrees difference on the northern islands of the Caribbean.
caribbean: The Taínos are subdivided into Classic Taínos, who occupied Puerto Rico and part of Hispaniola; Western Taínos, who occupied the Bahamian archipelago, Cuba, Jamaica, and part of Hispaniola; and the Eastern Taínos, who occupied the northern Lesser Antilles.
caribbean: Kingston: University of West Indies Press, 2003.
caribbean: 5 million African slaves would be taken to the Caribbean, and around half would be traded to the British Caribbean islands.
caribbean: In addition, these countries share the University of the West Indies as a regional entity.
caribbean: During the Cold War, the U.S.
caribbean: Puerto Rico: Latitude 18°N
caribbean: 483–528 in A Population History of North America Michael R.
caribbean: The arrival of the first humans is correlated with extinction of giant owls and dwarf ground sloths.
caribbean: Rainfall varies with elevation, size and water currents, such as the cool upwellings that keep the ABC islands arid.
caribbean: In addition, the fourth campus, the Open Campus was formed in June 2008 as a result of an amalgamation of the Board for Non-Campus Countries and Distance Education, Schools of Continuing Studies, the UWI Distance Education Centres and Tertiary Level Units.
caribbean: On the other hand, scholars also suggest that there are commonalities amongst the Caribbean nations that suggest regionalism exists.
caribbean: The majority of Jamaica is of West African origin, in addition to a significant population of mixed racial background and minorities of Chinese, Europeans, Indians, Indigenous, Jews, and Arabs.
caribbean: Neighboring Santo Domingo (present-day Dominican Republic) would attain its independence on three separate occasions in 1821, 1844 and 1865.
caribbean: The Lomé Convention, which allowed banana exports from the former colonies of the Group of African, Caribbean and Pacific states (ACP) to enter Europe cheaply, came into effect in 1976.
caribbean: The Caribbean can also be expanded to include territories with strong cultural and historical connections to Africa, slavery, European colonisation and the plantation system.
caribbean: The ACS maintains regionalism within the Caribbean on issues unique to the Caribbean Basin.
caribbean: The U.S., since the Monroe Doctrine in the 19th century, has excerted a major influence over the Caribbean.
