cave: The largest passage ever discovered is in the Son Doong Cave in Phong Nha-Kẻ Bàng National Park in Quảng Bình Province, Vietnam.
cave: The acid then dissolves the limestone from below, rather than from above, by acidic water percolating from the surface.
cave: Some authors use separate terminology for aquatic forms (for example, stygobites, stygophiles, and stygoxenes).
cave: A subtype of the erosional cave is the wind or aeolian cave, carved by wind-born sediments.
cave: They may or may not be associated with one of the above structural patterns.
cave: Most caves are formed in limestone by dissolution.
cave: Caves and caverns are natural voids under the surface of the Earth and have also been observed in other rocky worlds (e.g., on Mars).
cave: Mammoth Cave, Kentucky, US
Sistema Ox Bel Ha, Mexico
Sistema Sac Actun/Sistema Dos Ojos, Mexico
Jewel Cave, South Dakota, US
Shuanghedong Cave Network, China
cave: Today Cumberland Caverns provides one of the best examples for modern musical usages of caves.
cave: For karst caves the maximum depth is determined on the basis of the lower limit of karst forming processes, coinciding with the base of the soluble carbonate rocks.
cave: Types of active caves include inflow caves ("into which a stream sinks"), outflow caves ("from which a stream emerges"), and through caves ("traversed by a stream").
cave: Such caves can be found in the Canary Islands, Jeju-do, the basaltic plains of Eastern Idaho, and in other places.
cave: Glacier caves are sometimes misidentified as "ice caves", though this latter term is properly reserved for bedrock caves that contain year-round ice formations.
cave: The deepest known cave—measured from its highest entrance to its lowest point—is Veryovkina Cave in the Republic of Abkhazia, with a depth of 2,204 m (7,231 ft).
cave: The highest surveyed cave in the world is Qaqa Mach'ay in the Peruvian Andes at an elevation of 4930m above sea level.
cave: Pit caves (vertical caves, potholes, or simply "pits") consist of a vertical shaft rather than a horizontal cave passage.
cave: The portions of a solutional cave that are below the water table or the local level of the groundwater will be flooded.
cave: Subsequent GPS measurements suggest this is understated.
cave: It is estimated that a cave cannot be more than 3,000 metres (9,800 ft) vertically beneath the surface due to the pressure of overlying rocks.
cave: These secondary mineral deposits in caves are called speleothems.
cave: Generally there must be some zone of weakness to guide the water, such as a fault or joint.
cave: Caves which extend farther underground than the opening is wide are called endogene caves.
cave: If most of the lava flows out, a hollow tube remains.
cave: Throughout southern Africa, Australia, and Europe, early modern humans used caves and rock shelters as sites for rock art, such as those at Giant's Castle.
cave: For example, China, despite containing around half the world's exposed limestone—more than 1,000,000 square kilometres (390,000 sq mi)—has relatively few documented caves.
cave: Anchialine caves are caves, usually coastal, containing a mixture of freshwater and saline water (usually sea water).
cave: These randomized three-dimensional rooms form from a rising water table that erodes the carbonate rock with hydrogen-sulfide enriched water.
cave: Limestone caves are often adorned with calcium carbonate formations produced through slow precipitation.
cave: Glacier caves are formed by melting ice and flowing water within and under glaciers.
cave: Spongework caves are formed when solution cavities are joined by mixing of chemically diverse water.
cave: Bats, such as the gray bat and Mexican free-tailed bat, are trogloxenes and are often found in caves; they forage outside of the caves.
cave: The dissolution process produces a distinctive landform known as karst, characterized by sinkholes and underground drainage.
cave: Caves are visited by many surface-living animals, including humans.
cave: Such caves form in rock that is soluble; most occur in limestone, but they can also form in other rocks including chalk, dolomite, marble, salt, and gypsum.
cave: Ramiform caves form as irregular large rooms, galleries, and passages.
cave: The largest and most abundant solutional caves are located in limestone.
cave: As the world's expanses of soluble bedrock are researched by cavers, the distribution of documented caves is likely to shift.
cave: For instance, in the eastern temperate United States, cave entrances are most frequently (and often densely) populated by the bulblet fern, Cystopteris bulbifera.
cave: As a result, explored caves are found widely in Europe, Asia, North America and Oceania, but are sparse in South America, Africa, and Antarctica.
cave: Clusters of paintings were often found in areas with notable acoustics, sometimes even replicating the sounds of the animals depicted on the walls.
cave: These may involve a combination of chemical processes, erosion by water, tectonic forces, microorganisms, pressure, and atmospheric influences.
cave: Troglobitic species often show a number of characteristics, termed troglomorphic, associated with their adaptation to subterranean life.
cave: These unstable deposits are called talus or scree, and may be subject to frequent rockfalls and landslides.
cave: The deepest reached by a remotely operated underwater vehicle in an underwater cave is 450 metres (1,480 ft), in the Hranice Abyss in the Czech Republic.
cave: The human voice was also theorized to be used as an echolocation device to navigate darker areas of the caves where torches were less useful.
cave: Caves often form by the weathering of rock and can extend deep underground.
cave: Branchwork caves are the most common of cave patterns and are formed near sinkholes where groundwater recharge occurs.
cave: Caves do form in the dolomite of the Ghaap Plateau, including the Early, Middle and Later Stone Age site of Wonderwerk Cave; however, the caves that form along the escarpment's edge, like that hypothesised for the Taung Child, are formed within a secondary limestone deposit called tufa.
cave: Caves are found throughout the world, although the distribution of documented cave system is heavily skewed towards those countries where caving has been popular for many years (such as France, Italy, Australia, the UK, the United States, etc.).
cave: Visiting or exploring caves for recreation may be called caving, potholing, or spelunking.
cave: They were formed by H2S (hydrogen sulfide) gas rising from below, where reservoirs of oil give off sulfurous fumes.
cave: Aquatic troglobites (or stygobites), such as the endangered Alabama cave shrimp, live in bodies of water found in caves and get nutrients from detritus washed into their caves and from the feces of bats and other cave inhabitants.
cave: Exogene caves are smaller openings that extend a relatively short distance underground (such as rock shelters).
cave: The earliest human fossils found in caves come from a series of caves near Krugersdorp and Mokopane in South Africa.
cave: The irregularities in the walls of the Cumberland Caverns diffuse sounds bouncing off the walls and give the space an almost recording studio-like quality.
cave: Most specimens are female, but a male specimen was collected from St Cuthberts Swallet in 1969.
cave: They usually form along one bed or structure, and only rarely cross into upper or lower beds.
cave: The longest surveyed underwater cave, and second longest overall, is Sistema Ox Bel Ha in Yucatán, Mexico at 524.1 km (325.7 mi).
cave: However, it is not generally thought that these early humans were living in the caves, but that they were brought into the caves by carnivores that had killed them.
cave: Erosional caves are those that form entirely by erosion by flowing streams carrying rocks and other sediments.
cave: This may have allowed rapid expansion of humans out of Africa and colonization of areas of the world such as Australia by 60–50,000 years ago.
cave: During the 20th century musicians began to explore the possibility of using caves as locations as clubs and concert halls, including the likes of Dinah Shore, Roy Acuff, and Benny Goodman.
cave: Dots of red ochre are often found in spaces with the highest resonance, where the production of paintings was too difficult.
cave: Talus caves are formed by the openings among large boulders that have fallen down into a random heap, often at the bases of cliffs.
cave: They occur in many parts of the world, and often contain highly specialized and endemic fauna.
cave: Because of the fragility of cave ecosystems, and the fact that cave regions tend to be isolated from one another, caves harbor a number of endangered species, such as the Tooth cave spider, liphistius trapdoor spider, and the gray bat.
cave: Of these animals, the troglobites are perhaps the most unusual organisms.
cave: Anastomotic caves largely resemble surface braided streams with their passages separating and then meeting further down drainage.
cave: This crust insulates the interior from the cool air outside, which allows hot liquid lava to continue to flow underneath.
cave: Except for salt caves, solutional caves result when rock is dissolved by natural acid in groundwater that seeps through bedding planes, faults, joints, and comparable features.
cave: As molten lava flows downhill, its surface cools and forms a solid outer crust.
cave: Among the known sacred caves are China's Cave of a Thousand Buddhas and the sacred caves of Crete.
cave: Often these weaknesses are faults, but they may also be dykes or bedding-plane contacts.
cave: People have made use of caves throughout history.
cave: They have extensive distribution and have been studied fairly widely.
cave: These can form in any type of rock, including hard rocks such as granite.
cave: However, this is now debated (Hopley et al., 2013; Am.
cave: Speleology is the science of exploration and study of all aspects of caves and the cave environment.
cave: Angular network caves form from intersecting fissures of carbonate rock that have had fractures widened by chemical erosion.
cave: The importance of sound in caves predates a modern understanding of acoustics.
cave: These fractures form high, narrow, straight passages that persist in widespread closed loops.
cave: These are usually relatively short-lived incursions, due to the lack of light and sustenance.
cave: In Luray Caverns, Virginia, an enormous lithophone, the "Great Stalacpipe Organ" has been developed that generates sound by mallets striking stalactites, each with a different pitch.
cave: Paleolithic cave paintings have been found throughout the world dating from 64,800 years old for non-figurative art and 43,900 years old for figurative art.
cave: Caves can range widely in size, and are formed by various geological processes.
cave: The deepest vertical shaft in a cave is 603 m (1,978 ft) in Vrtoglavica Cave in Slovenia.
cave: Caves formed at the same time as the surrounding rock are called primary caves.
cave: Archaeologists have uncovered relationships between paintings of dots and lines, in specific areas of resonance, within the caves of Spain and France, as well as instruments depicting paleolithic motifs, indicators of musical events and rituals.
cave: This does not, however, impose a maximum depth for a cave which is measured from its highest entrance to its lowest point, as the amount of rock above the lowest point is dependent on the topography of the landscape above it.
cave: This is a rough generalization, as large expanses of North America and Asia contain no documented caves, whereas areas such as the Madagascar dry deciduous forests and parts of Brazil contain many documented caves.
cave: Caves can be classified in other ways as well, including a contrast between active and relict: active caves have water flowing through them; relict caves do not, though water may be retained in them.
cave: These characteristics may include a loss of pigment (often resulting in a pale or white coloration), a loss of eyes (or at least of optical functionality), an elongation of appendages, and an enhancement of other senses (such as the ability to sense vibrations in water).
cave: Unlike today, these early performances were typically held in the mouths of the caves, as the lack of technology made depths of the interior inaccessible with musical equipment.
cave: Over time cracks enlarge to become caves and cave systems.
cave: The caves are utilized not only for reverberation, but for the dampening qualities of their abnormal faces as well.
cave: Limestone dissolves under the action of rainwater and groundwater charged with H2CO3 (carbonic acid) and naturally occurring organic acids.
cave: Sea caves are found along coasts around the world.
cave: Other aquatic troglobites include cave fish, and cave salamanders such as the olm and the Texas blind salamander.
cave: These rocks fracture and collapse in blocks of stone.
cave: Lechuguilla Cave in New Mexico and nearby Carlsbad Cavern are now believed to be examples of another type of solutional cave.
cave: (The first cave to be descended below 1,000 m (3,300 ft) was Gouffre Berger in France.) The Sarma and Illyuzia-Mezhonnogo-Snezhnaya caves in Georgia, (1,830 m or 6,000 ft, and 1,753 m or 5,751 ft respectively) are the current second- and third-deepest caves.
cave: The largest room in a show cave is the Salle de la Verna in the French Pyrenees.
cave: The largest known room by surface is Sarawak Chamber, in the Gunung Mulu National Park (Miri, Sarawak, Borneo, Malaysia), a sloping, boulder strewn chamber with an area of 154,500 m2 (1,663,000 sq ft).
cave: Each passage or branch is fed by a separate recharge source and converges into other higher order branches downstream.
cave: Cave entrances often have typical florae.
cave: Branchwork caves resemble surface dendritic stream patterns; they are made up of passages that join downstream as tributaries.
cave: The first early hominid ever found in Africa, the Taung Child in 1924, was also thought for many years to come from a cave, where it had been deposited after being predated on by an eagle.
cave: These include flowstones, stalactites, stalagmites, helictites, soda straws and columns.
cave: It is 4.6 km (2.9 mi) in length, 80 m (260 ft) high and wide over most of its length, but over 140 m (460 ft) high and wide for part of its length.
cave: Some species of cave crickets are classified as trogloxenes, because they roost in caves by day and forage above ground at night.
cave: The deepest outside Georgia is Lamprechtsofen Vogelschacht Weg Schacht in Austria, which is 1,623 m (5,325 ft) deep.
cave: The oldest known site is PP13B at Pinnacle Point.
cave: Cave insects such as Oligaphorura (formerly Archaphorura) schoetti are troglophiles, reaching 1.7 millimetres (0.067 in) in length.
cave: Caves continue to provide usage for modern-day explorers of acoustics.
cave: Elsewhere, in places such as Thailand's Phang Nga Bay, solutional caves have been flooded by the sea and are now subject to littoral erosion.
cave: The cavities are influenced by the very slow flow of the ice, which tends to collapse the caves again.
cave: Many caves formed initially by solutional processes often undergo a subsequent phase of erosional or vadose enlargement where active streams or rivers pass through them.
cave: Solutional caves or karst caves are the most frequently occurring caves.
cave: Lava caves include but are not limited to lava tubes.
cave: This was the first cave to be explored to a depth of more than 2,000 m (6,600 ft).
cave: Isotopic dating techniques can be applied to cave sediments, to determine the timescale of the geological events which formed and shaped present-day caves.
cave: In southern Africa, early modern humans regularly used sea caves as shelter starting about 180,000 years ago when they learned to exploit the sea for the first time.
cave: A special case is littoral caves, which are formed by wave action in zones of weakness in sea cliffs.
cave: The cavities form a pattern that is three-dimensional and random, resembling a sponge.
cave: This gas mixes with groundwater and forms H2SO4 (sulfuric acid).
cave: Kazumura Cave near Hilo, Hawaii is a remarkably long and deep lava tube; it is 65.6 km long (40.8 mi).
cave: Other caves formed through volcanic activity include rifts, lava molds, open vertical conduits, and inflationary blisters, among others.
cave: Sea caves are generally around 5 to 50 metres (16 to 164 ft) in length, but may exceed 300 metres (980 ft).
cave: Some wave-cut caves are now above sea level because of later uplift.
cave: The second deepest is Ghar-e-Ghala at 562 m (1,844 ft) in the Parau massif near Kermanshah in Iran.
cave: The Miao Room is the world's largest known room by volume, with a measured volume of 10,780,000 m3 (381,000,000 cu ft).
