celebrity: Celebrities often become brands themselves, influencing trends and consumer behavior while navigating the pressures of privacy erosion and mental health challenges.
celebrity: Celebrities are alternately portrayed as glowing examples of perfection, when they garner awards, or as decadent or immoral if they become associated with a scandal.
celebrity: Forbes cites that Lady Gaga reportedly earned over $90 million in 2010.
celebrity: The second half of the century saw television and popular music bring new forms of celebrity, such as the rock star and the pop group, epitomised by Elvis Presley and the Beatles, respectively.
celebrity: Celebrity endorsements have proven very successful around the world where, due to increasing consumerism, a person owns a  "status symbol" by purchasing a celebrity-endorsed product.
celebrity: One study found that singers, musicians, actors and athletes die younger on average than writers, composers, academics, politicians and businesspeople, with a greater incidence of cancer and especially lung cancer.
celebrity: Former Brazil striker and World Cup winner Ronaldo became the majority owner of La Liga club Real Valladolid in 2018.
celebrity: Celebrity (noun): a unique persona made widely known to the public via media coverage, and whose life is publicly consumed as dramatic entertainment, and whose commercial brand is made profitable for those who exploit their popularity, and perhaps also for themselves.
celebrity: Certain "15 minutes of fame" celebrities can be average people seen with an A-list celebrity, who are sometimes noticed on entertainment news channels such as E!
celebrity: "In fact, many reality show contestants fall into this category: the only thing that qualifies them to be on TV is that they're real."
celebrity: by Leonid E.
celebrity: With the rise of television, social media, and reality TV, individuals can achieve stardom not just through traditional talents but also through their personal lives and online presence.
celebrity: 'Celebrity' usually implies a favorable public image, as opposed to the neutrals 'famous' or 'notable', or the negatives 'infamous' and 'notorious'.
celebrity: Henry Holt & Company.
celebrity: Ancient Rome similarly lauded actors and notorious gladiators, and Julius Caesar appeared on a coin in his own lifetime (a departure from the usual depiction of battles and divine lineage).
celebrity: Due to the high visibility of celebrities' private lives, their successes and shortcomings are often made very public.
celebrity: Journalists may even have difficulty accessing celebrities for interviews.
celebrity: In the early 12th century, Thomas Becket became famous following his murder, the first possible case of posthumous popularity.
celebrity: The term celebrity was not always tied to actors in films however, especially when cinema was starting as a medium.
celebrity: Beyoncé has also appeared in the top ten in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2013, 2017, and topped the list in 2014 with earnings of $115 million.
celebrity: The movie industry spread around the globe in the first half of the 20th century, creating the first film celebrities.
celebrity: Along with investing their salaried wages into growing business endeavors, several celebrities have become innovative business leaders in their respective industries.
celebrity: Another example of celebrities in the entertainment industry was in music, beginning in the mid-19th century.
celebrity: Moscow: KRASAND/Editorial URSS, 2009.
celebrity: The word is also used to refer to famous individuals.
celebrity: These are ordinary people becoming celebrities, often based on the ridiculous things they do.
celebrity: In Hierarchy and Power in the History of Civilizations: Cultural Dimensions (pp.
celebrity: Celebrity is a condition of fame and broad public recognition of a person or group due to the attention given to them by mass media.
celebrity: Writer and actor Michael Musto said, "You have to go through many hoops just to talk to a major celebrity.
celebrity: Some celebrities either went broke or filed for bankruptcy as a result of dabbling with such side businesses or endorsements.
celebrity: Newspapers started including "gossip" columns, and certain clubs and events became places to be seen to receive publicity.
celebrity: Mass media has dramatically reshaped the concept of celebrity by amplifying visibility and extending fame globally.
celebrity: Websites like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube allow people to become a celebrity in a different manner.
celebrity: They all have to approve you."
Celebrities also typically have security staff at their home or properties, to protect them and their belongings from similar threats.
celebrity: Forbes magazine releases an annual list of the highest-paid celebrities in the world, Forbes Top 40 between 1987-1999, later reacreated as Forbes Celebrity 100.
celebrity: Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
celebrity: The following year she became the poster-girl for Pears Soap, becoming the first celebrity to endorse a commercial product.
celebrity: ISBN 9780691177595.
celebrity: The Drama of Celebrity (On the history of Sarah Bernhardt, one of the first "global superstars", and her celebrity).
celebrity: This shift has sparked criticism for promoting superficial recognition over substantive achievements and reflects broader changes in how fame and success are perceived in modern culture.
celebrity: In most cases, the book was not written by the celebrity but by a ghostwriter, but the celebrity would then be available for a book tour and appearances on talk shows.
celebrity: Some celebrities have been very vocal about their political views.
celebrity: The internet, as said before, also allows fans to connect with their favorite celebrity without ever meeting them in person.
celebrity: Through social media, many people outside of the entertainment and sports sphere become a celebrity in their own sphere.
celebrity: However, it was remarked that the reasons for this remained unclear, with theories including innate tendencies towards risk-taking as well as the pressure or opportunities of particular types of fame.
celebrity: Numerous celebrities have ventured into becoming business moguls and established themselves as entrepreneurs, idolizing many well known business leaders such as Bill Gates, Richard Branson and Warren Buffett.
celebrity: For example, Justin Bieber got his start on YouTube by posting videos of him singing.
celebrity: Similarly, some celebrities with very little formal education can sometimes be portrayed as experts on complicated issues.
celebrity: This heightened visibility brings intense public scrutiny, where every detail of a celebrity's life is subject to constant media coverage.
celebrity: According to McGann: "He rapidly became the most brilliant star in the dazzling world of Regency London."
Establishing cultural hot spots became important in generating fame, such as in London and Paris in the 18th and 19th centuries.
celebrity: An academic study on the subject said that fame has an addictive quality to it.
celebrity: The term is a pejorative, suggesting the target has no particular talents or abilities.
celebrity: Lord Byron became a celebrity in 1812 after the publication of the first two cantos of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage.
celebrity: Never seen before in music, many people engaged in an immense fan frenzy called Lisztomania that began in 1841.
celebrity: The Christian Church promoted him as a martyr, and images of him and scenes from his life became widespread in just a few years.
celebrity: John Lennon's highly controversial 1966 quote: "We're more popular than Jesus now", which he later insisted was not a boast, and that he was not in any way comparing himself with Christ, gives an insight into both the adulation and notoriety that fame can bring.
celebrity: Celebrity blogging has also spawned stars such as Perez Hilton who is known for not only blogging but also outing celebrities.
celebrity: Miles, Barry (1997).
celebrity: Not all celebrities eventually succeed with their businesses and other related side ventures.
celebrity: This can have positive impacts when the celebrities give solid, evidence-informed health advice, however, it can also have detrimental effects if the health advice is not accurate enough.
celebrity: Cristiano Ronaldo followed by Lionel Messi in 2020 became the first two athletes in a team sport to surpass $1 billion in earnings during their careers.
celebrity: Austin: University of Texas Press, 2011.
celebrity: Famous for being famous, in popular culture terminology, refers to someone who attains celebrity status for no particular identifiable reason, or who achieves fame through association with a celebrity.
celebrity: Tolkien and children's author Roald Dahl each topping the annual list with earnings of $500 million over the course of a year.
celebrity: ISBN 0-385-12336-1.
celebrity: Paul McCartney: Many Years from Now.
celebrity: She has consistently been among the most powerful and highest-earning celebrities in the world, occupying the third place in Forbes Celebrity 100 2009 with $110 million of earnings, and getting the tenth place in the 2011 edition of the list with annual earnings equal to $58 million.
celebrity: New York: Doubleday, 1985.
celebrity: In 2013, Madonna was ranked as the fifth most powerful and the highest-earning celebrity of the year with earnings of $125 million.
celebrity: People who come up to one in the street or in public places to claim recognition nearly always say: "I've seen you on the telly!"
The coinages "famesque" and "celebutante" are of similar pejorative gist.
celebrity: Social media sites have also contributed to the fame of certain celebrities, such as Tila Tequila who became known through MySpace.
celebrity: Common threats such as stalking have spawned celebrity worship syndrome where a person becomes overly involved with the details of a celebrity's personal life.
celebrity: Intimate Strangers: The Culture of Celebrity.
celebrity: Unlike movies, television created celebrities who were not primarily actors; for example, presenters, talk show hosts, and newsreaders.
celebrity: For example, Matt Damon expressed his displeasure with 2008 US vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin, as well as with the 2011 United States debt-ceiling crisis.
celebrity: A person may attain celebrity status by having great wealth, participation in sports or the entertainment industry, their position as a political figure, or even their connection to another celebrity.
celebrity: Psychologists have indicated that though many people obsess over glamorous film, television, sport and music stars, the disparity in salaries in society seems to value professional athletes and entertainment industry-based professionals.
celebrity: Social media humanizes celebrities in a way that arouses public fascination as evident by the success of magazines such as Us Weekly and People Weekly.
celebrity: In 2011, golfer Tiger Woods was one of highest-earning celebrity athletes, with an income of $74 million and is consistently ranked one of the highest-paid athletes in the world.
celebrity: When a celebrity's fame recedes over time, the celebrity may find it difficult to adjust psychologically.
celebrity: The subject of widespread public and media interest, Lillie Langtry, made her West End theatre debut in 1881 causing a sensation in London by becoming the first socialite to appear on stage.
celebrity: Schikel, Richard.
celebrity: OCLC 1059270781.
celebrity: Tabloid magazines and talk TV shows bestow a great deal of attention to celebrities.
celebrity: Grinin and Andrey V.
celebrity: Retrieved July 29, 2019.
celebrity: Forbes also lists the top-earning deceased celebrities, with singer Michael Jackson, fantasy author J.
celebrity: This created the basis for the behavior fans have around their favorite musicians in modern society.
celebrity: Grinin, Leonid (2009) "'People of Celebrity' as a New Social Stratum and Elite".
celebrity: "I awoke one morning and found myself famous," he said.
celebrity: A report by the BBC highlighted a longtime trend of Asian internet celebrities called Wanghong in Chinese.
celebrity: In 2014, David Beckham became co-owner of new Major League Soccer team Inter Miami, which began playing in 2020.
celebrity: You have to get past three different sets of publicists: the publicist for the event, the publicist for the movie, and then the celebrity's personal publicist.
celebrity: Athletes in Ancient Greece were welcomed home as heroes, had songs and poems written in their honor, and received free food and gifts from those seeking celebrity endorsement.
celebrity: Recently, there has been more attention toward the impact celebrities have on health decisions of the population at large.
celebrity: The total earnings for all top celebrity 100 earners totaled $4.5 billion in 2010 alone.
celebrity: ISBN 978-0-436-28022-1.
celebrity: Although some celebrities have achieved additional financial success from various business ventures, the vast majority of celebrities are not successful businesspeople and still rely on salaried labored wages to earn a living.
celebrity: Social networking services allow celebrities to communicate directly with their fans, removing the "traditional" media.
celebrity: Today one is famous for being famous.
celebrity: Celebrities may be resented for their accolades, and the public may have a love/hate relationship with celebrities.
celebrity: Restaurants near theaters, where actors would congregate, began putting up caricatures or photographs of actors on celebrity walls in the late 19th century.
celebrity: Over time, the invention of more types of mass media has broadened the ways in which people have become famous.
celebrity: His fans were able to directly contact him through his content and were able to interact with him on several social media platforms.
celebrity: Fame might have negative psychological effects.
celebrity: For instance, Forbes ranked media mogul and talk show host, Oprah Winfrey as the top earner "Forbes magazine's annual ranking of the most powerful celebrities", with earnings of $290 million in the past year.
celebrity: "15 minutes of fame" is a phrase often used as slang to short-lived publicity.
celebrity: However, most of these are only famous within the regions reached by their particular broadcaster, and only a few such as Oprah Winfrey, Jerry Springer, or David Frost could be said to have broken through into wider stardom.
celebrity: In 1895, poet and playwright Oscar Wilde became the subject of "one of the first celebrity trials".
celebrity: Other celebrities such as Tyler Perry, George Lucas, and Steven Spielberg have become successful entrepreneurs through starting their own film production companies and running their own movie studios beyond their traditional activities.
celebrity: The cult of personality (particularly in the west) can be traced back to the Romantics in the 18th century, whose livelihood as artists and poets depended on the currency of their reputation.
celebrity: Social media and the rise of the smartphone has changed how celebrities are treated and how people gain the platform of fame.
celebrity: ISBN 978-0-292-72339-9.
celebrity: Like theatrical actors before them, movie actors were the subjects of celebrity walls in restaurants they frequented, near movie studios, most notably at Sardi's in Hollywood.
celebrity: It is believed that the public will follow celebrities' health advice to some extent.
