cell_biology: Alginate is a polysaccharide found in the matrix of the cell walls of brown algae, and has many important uses in the food industry, and in pharmacology.
cell_biology: There are an estimated 200 different cell types in the human body.
cell_biology: The estimated cell count in a typical adult human body is around 30 trillion cells, 36 trillion in an adult male, and 28 trillion in a female.
cell_biology: The green plants were created around 1.6 billion years ago with a second episode of symbiogenesis that added chloroplasts, derived from cyanobacteria.
cell_biology: The cell nucleus is the largest organelle in the animal cells and many other eukaryotic cells.
cell_biology: The mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is very small compared to nuclear DNA, but it codes for 13 proteins involved in mitochondrial energy production and specific transfer RNAs (tRNAs).
cell_biology: The cell membranes of archaea are unique, consisting of ether-linked lipids.
cell_biology: Embedded within the cell membrane are secretory macromolecular lipoprotein structures called porosomes; and a number of different channels and pumps involved in actively transporting molecules into and out of the cell.
cell_biology: Some types of specialized cell are localized to a particular animal group.
cell_biology: Their cell-surface appendage equivalent of the flagella is the differently structured and unique archaellum.
cell_biology: All organisms are grouped into prokaryotes and eukaryotes.
cell_biology: The cell is the basic structural and functional unit of all forms of life or organisms.
cell_biology: Mycoplasma only possess the cell membrane.
cell_biology: Replication, like all cellular activities, requires specialized proteins.
cell_biology: Vaults are largely overlooked because their functions are purely speculative.
cell_biology: Some other animals known as diploblasts have two germ layers the ectoderm, and the endoderm.
cell_biology: Linear bacterial plasmids have been identified in several species of spirochete bacteria, including species of Borrelia which causes Lyme disease.
cell_biology: There are a great number of proteins associated with them, each controlling a cell's structure by directing, bundling, and aligning filaments.
cell_biology: Prokaryotic organelles are less complex, and are typically membrane-less.
cell_biology: All prokaryotes are single-celled and include bacteria and archaea, two of the three domains of life.
cell_biology: The diploid cells that make up the body of an animal or plant  are known as somatic cells, which excludes the haploid gametes.
cell_biology: The nuclear envelope isolates and protects a cell's DNA from various molecules that could accidentally damage its structure or interfere with its processing.
cell_biology: The cytosol is a gel-like substance made up of water, ions, and non-essential biomolecules, and is the main site of protein synthesis, and degradation.
cell_biology: Vacuoles known as phagosomes in the cytoplasm may be used to draw in and incorporate the captured particles.
cell_biology: The evolution of multicellularity from unicellular ancestors has been replicated in the laboratory, in evolution experiments using predation as the selective pressure.
cell_biology: The smooth ER plays a role in calcium sequestration and release, and helps in synthesis of lipid.
cell_biology: They also function in protein homeostasis, stress response, and in the control of cell division and signal transduction.
cell_biology: Mitochondria also have their own ribosomes known as mitoribosomes.
cell_biology: All cells contain enzyme systems that scan for DNA damage and carry out repair.
cell_biology: Diverse repair processes have evolved in all organisms.
cell_biology: They include the magnetosome of magnetotactic bacteria, and the anammoxosome of anammox bacteria.
cell_biology: The cell membrane of a skeletal muscle cell or of a cardiac muscle cell is termed the sarcolemma.
cell_biology: Organelles are compartments of the cell that are specialized for carrying out one or more functions, analogous to the organs, such as the heart, and lungs.
cell_biology: Macrophages have the greatest number of vaults of any human cell.
cell_biology: Many animal cells are ciliated and most cells except red blood cells have primary cilia.
cell_biology: It generally consists of a plasma membrane covered by a cell wall which, for some bacteria, is covered by a third layer, a gelatinous bacterial capsule.
cell_biology: Centrosomes are composed of two centrioles which lie perpendicular to each other in which each has an organization like a cartwheel, which separate during cell division and help in the formation of the mitotic spindle.
cell_biology: The mRNA sequence directly relates to the polypeptide sequence by binding to transfer RNA (tRNA) adapter molecules in binding pockets within the ribosome.
cell_biology: This mechanism operates to prevent genomic instability.
cell_biology: It is made up of two main components, the cytoskeleton made up of protein filaments, and the cytosol.
cell_biology: And the cytoplasm is termed the sarcoplasm.
cell_biology: This occurs during the S (synthesis) phase of the cell cycle.
cell_biology: The flagellum stretches from the cytoplasm through the cell membrane and extrudes through the cell wall.
cell_biology: Prokaryotic cells were likely the first form of life on Earth, characterized by having vital biological processes including cell signaling.
cell_biology: A peroxisome has no DNA or ribosomes and the proteins that it needs are encoded in the nucleus, and selectively imported from the cytosol.
cell_biology: In mammalian cells, endocytosis includes early, late, and recycling endosomes.
cell_biology: Prokaryotes are single-celled organisms, whereas eukaryotes can be either single-celled or multicellular.
cell_biology: Single-celled eukaryotes include microalgae such as diatoms.
cell_biology: Haploid cells serve as gametes in multicellular organisms, fusing to form new diploid cells.
cell_biology: In 1665, Robert Hooke examined a thin slice of cork under his microscope, and saw a structure of small enclosures.
cell_biology: It featured at least one centriole and cilium, sex (meiosis and syngamy), peroxisomes, and a dormant cyst with a cell wall of chitin and/or cellulose.
cell_biology: This cell had a new level of complexity, with a nucleus and facultatively aerobic mitochondria.
cell_biology: Most cells are only visible under a microscope.
cell_biology: A unique membrane-bound prokaryotic organelle, the magnetosome has been discovered in magnetotactic bacteria.
cell_biology: This put forth the idea that cells were fundamental to both plants and animals.
cell_biology: In the reproductive system ciliated epithelium in the fallopian tubes move the egg from the uterus to the ovary.
cell_biology: During processing, DNA is transcribed, or copied into a special RNA, called messenger RNA (mRNA).
cell_biology: A ribosome is a large complex of RNA and protein molecules considered as a membrane-less organelle when freely found in the cytosol, or as a membrane-bound organelle when located in the rough type of endoplasmic reticulum.
cell_biology: Information contained in the protein itself directs this delivery process.
cell_biology: Cyanobacteria are variable in morphology, filamentous forms exhibit functional cell differentiation such as heterocysts (for nitrogen fixation), akinetes (resting stage cells), and hormogonia (reproductive, motile filaments).
cell_biology: The cell walls of fungi are uniquely made of a chitin-glucan complex.
cell_biology: Cells emerged on Earth about four billion years ago.
cell_biology: Some types of cell are motile.
cell_biology: All prokaryotic cells secrete different substances from their membranes, including exoenzymes, and extracellular polymeric substances.
cell_biology: All of which have many different species and cell differences.
cell_biology: The vacuoles are larger than those in animal cells, and their membrane transports ions against concentration gradients.
cell_biology: He wrote "I could exceeding plainly perceive it to be all perforated and porous, much like a honeycomb, but that the pores of it were not regular".
cell_biology: They are simpler and smaller than eukaryotic cells, lack a nucleus, and the other usually present membrane-bound organelles.
cell_biology: The centrosome is the main microtubule organizing center in the animal cell that produces the microtubules key components of the cytoskeleton.
cell_biology: Differentiation results in structural or functional changes to stem cells, and progenitor cells.
cell_biology: The cell membrane, or plasma membrane, is a selectively permeable membrane as an outer boundary of the cell that encloses the cytoplasm.
cell_biology: They have enzymes that rid the cell of toxic peroxides.
cell_biology: Epithelial cells are joined together in sheets by way of cell junctions; adherens junctions, and desmosomes bind the cells together, and hemidesmosomes bind the cells to the basement membrane.
cell_biology: Multicellular organisms are made up of many different types of cell known overall as somatic cells.
cell_biology: Plastids including chloroplasts feature mainly in plant cells.
cell_biology: Mitochondria are descended from bacteria that formed an endosymbiotic relationship with ancient prokaryotes.
cell_biology: Peroxisomes are microbodies bounded by a single membrane.
cell_biology: Some proteins enter via the endomembrane reticulum.
cell_biology: The cytosol forms 30%–50% of the cell's volume.
cell_biology: Mitochondria are self-replicating double membrane-bound organelles that occur in various numbers, shapes, and sizes in the cytoplasm of the cell.
cell_biology: The prokaryotic cytoskeleton has homologues of eukaryotic actin and tubulin.
cell_biology: Populations of animal groups evolve to become distinct species, where sexual reproduction is isolated.
cell_biology: These, together with the intercellular connections they possess, are considered the first signs of multicellularity.
cell_biology: The membrane serves to separate and protect a cell from its surrounding environment and is made mostly from a lipid bilayer of phospholipids, which are amphiphilic (partly hydrophobic and partly hydrophilic).
cell_biology: In some species of electric fish for example modified muscle cells or nerve cells have specialized to become electerocytes capable of creating and storing electrical energy for future release, as in stunning prey, or use in electrolocation.
cell_biology: The contents of the cell are contained within a cell membrane, and together with all the membranes of the organelles (except the mitochondria) are known as the endomembrane system.
cell_biology: A lysosome is the most acidic compartment in the cell.
cell_biology: 1855: Rudolf Virchow stated that new cells come from pre-existing cells by cell division (omnis cellula ex cellula).
cell_biology: 1981: Lynn Margulis published Symbiosis in Cell Evolution detailing how eukaryotic cells were created by symbiogenesis.
cell_biology: 1632–1723: Antonie van Leeuwenhoek taught himself to make lenses, constructed basic optical microscopes and drew protozoa, such as Vorticella from rain water, and bacteria from his own mouth.
cell_biology: RNA may have been the earliest self-replicating molecule, as it can both store genetic information and catalyze chemical reactions.
cell_biology: Errors in signaling interactions may cause diseases such as cancer, autoimmunity, and diabetes.
cell_biology: Cell death occurs when a cell ceases to carry out its functions, as a result of ageing, or types of cell injury (necrosis).
cell_biology: 1931: Ernst Ruska built the first transmission electron microscope at the University of Berlin.
cell_biology: Multicellular eukaryotes include animals, plants, some species of fungi, and some species of algae.
cell_biology: Eukaryotes can be single-celled or multicellular.
cell_biology: A eukaryotic cell can be 2 to 100 times larger in diameter than a typical prokaryotic cell.
cell_biology: The whole system cooperates in the modification, packaging, and transport of proteins and lipids.
cell_biology: The network of filaments and microtubules of the cytoskeleton gives shape and support to the cell, and has a part in organising the cell components.
cell_biology: The cytoplasm contains the cytoskeleton, the cell nucleus, the endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomes, the Golgi apparatus, mitochondria, peroxisomes, endosomes, vacuoles and vesicles, and vaults.
cell_biology: DNA replication only occurs before meiosis I.
cell_biology: This mRNA is then transported out of the nucleus, where it is translated into a specific protein molecule.
cell_biology: A vault is a large ribonuclear protein particle, a membrane-less organelle, three times the size of a ribosome but with only three proteins in contrast to the near hundred in the ribosome.
cell_biology: Prokaryotes lack a membrane-bound nucleus and have a nucleoid instead.
cell_biology: Photosynthesis is found in both prokaryotic cyanobacteria and multiple clades of eukaryotic algae; red algae, brown algae, and green algae, which are closely related to land plants.
cell_biology: In sclerenchyma tissue lignin is secreted to form a secondary wall inside the primary cell wall.
cell_biology: Cell-surface appendages can include flagella, and pili, protein structures that facilitate movement and communication between cells.
cell_biology: While most other eukaryotes due have centrioles, plants do not and centrosomes are unique to animal cells.
cell_biology: The cell could not house these destructive enzymes if they were not contained in a membrane-bound compartment.
cell_biology: Different proteins in the cytoplasm operate optimally at different pHs.
cell_biology: Prokaryotic cells divide by binary fission, while eukaryotic cells usually undergo a process of nuclear division, called mitosis, followed by division of the cell, called cytokinesis.
cell_biology: Multicellularity was made possible by the development of the extracellular matrix (ECM) similar in function to the bacterial EPS that consists of extracellular polymeric substances.
cell_biology: Basement membranes are a type of specialized extracellular matrix that surrounds most animal tissues, and are essential in their formation.
cell_biology: Eukaryotic cells were created some 2.2 billion years ago in a process called eukaryogenesis.
cell_biology: Skeletal muscle cells also become multinucleated.
cell_biology: The first cells were most likely heterotrophs.
cell_biology: Extracellular matrix components of laminin domains, integrated with other proteins such as cadherins have been described in single-celled motile choanoflagellates that pre-dates the evolutionary emergence of basement membranes, one of the two types of ECM.
cell_biology: In meiosis, the DNA is replicated only once, while the cell divides twice.
cell_biology: In eukaryotic cells, the nucleus is enclosed in the nuclear membrane.
cell_biology: During the embryonic development of an animal, the cells differentiate into the specialised tissues and organs of the organism.
cell_biology: Other cell death pathways are described, and include anoikis, pyroptosis, mitoptosis, parthanatos, and necroptosis.
cell_biology: Cells were discovered by Robert Hooke in 1665, who named them after their resemblance to cells in a monastery.
cell_biology: The prokaryotic cytoskeleton in bacteria is involved in the maintenance of cell shape, polarity and cytokinesis.
cell_biology: Different hormones act as signaling molecules to control all aspects of the plant's growth and development including embryogenesis and reproduction, and in pathogen defense.
cell_biology: A separate grouping of animals and fungi are known as opisthokonts.
cell_biology: Eukaryotic cells possess a membrane-bound nucleus, and prokaryotic cells lack a nucleus but have a nucleoid region.
cell_biology: Eukaryotes are distinguished by the presence of a membrane-bound nucleus that gives  gives the eukaryote its name, which means "true nut" or "true kernel", where "nut" means the nucleus.
cell_biology: Except for highly-differentiated cell types (examples include red blood cells and gametes) most cells are capable of replication, and protein synthesis.
cell_biology: There are many cell variations among the different eukaryote groups.
cell_biology: This RNA strand is then processed to give messenger RNA (mRNA), which is free to migrate into the cytoplasm.
cell_biology: Other types of protists are photoautotrophs, providing themselves with energy by photosynthesis.
cell_biology: The cell envelope gives rigidity to the cell and separates the interior of the cell from its environment, serving as a protective mechanical and chemical filter.
cell_biology: The cells of protists may be bounded only by a cell membrane, or may in addition have a cell wall, or may be covered by a pellicle (in ciliates), a test (in testate amoebae), or a frustule (in diatoms).
cell_biology: Small molecules needed for life may have been carried to Earth on meteorites, created at deep-sea hydrothermal vents, or synthesized by lightning in a reducing atmosphere.
cell_biology: It directs the transport through the ER and the Golgi apparatus.
cell_biology: This process required an enzyme to catalyze the RNA reactions, which may have been the early peptides that formed in hydrothermal vents.
cell_biology: In wound healing in animals, white blood cells move to the wound site to kill the pathogens causing infection.
cell_biology: A microbial consortium of two or more species can form a biofilm by the secretion of extracellular polymeric substances (EPSs).
cell_biology: DNA replication, or the process of duplicating a cell's genome, always happens when a cell divides through mitosis or binary fission.
cell_biology: The cytoskeleton in the animal cell also plays a part in cytokinesis, in the formation of the spindle apparatus during cell division, the separation of daughter cells.
cell_biology: In humans, the nuclear genome is divided into 46 linear chromosomes, including 22 homologous chromosome pairs and a pair of sex chromosomes.
cell_biology: Prokaryotes are single-celled and include archaea and bacteria.
cell_biology: The plant cytoskeleton is a dynamic structure that has a scaffold of microtubules and microfilaments, but no intermediate filaments.
cell_biology: Most single-celled protists are motile, and generate movement with cilia, flagella, or pseudopodia.
cell_biology: The other type of ECM is the interstial matrix.
cell_biology: A eukaryotic cell structure,  includes an endomembrane system encompassing the cell membrane, and all the membranes of the organelles excluding those of the mitochondria.
cell_biology: Correct sorting is crucial for the cell; errors or dysfunction in sorting have been linked to multiple diseases.
cell_biology: Common mechanisms of motion include flagella and cilia, and the projection of pseudopodia in amoeboid movement.
cell_biology: Between successive cell divisions, cells grow through the functioning of cellular metabolism.
cell_biology: RNA is used for information transport (e.g., mRNA) and enzymatic functions (e.g., ribosomal RNA).
cell_biology: Extrachromosomal DNA as plasmids, are usually circular and encode additional genes, such as those of antibiotic resistance.
cell_biology: Programmed cell death, including apoptosis, and autophagy is a natural process of replacing dead cells with new ones.
cell_biology: Many cells project one or more cellular extensions.
cell_biology: Each step is driven by physical forces generated by unique segments of the cytoskeleton.
cell_biology: Most cell signaling is chemical in nature, and can occur with neighboring cells or more distant targets.
cell_biology: In plant cells, chloroplasts create sugars by photosynthesis, using the energy of light to join molecules of water and carbon dioxide.
cell_biology: Some cells, most notably Amoeba, have contractile vacuoles, which can pump water out of the cell if there is too much water.
cell_biology: The enzymes are of the glyoxylate cycle.
cell_biology: Lipids spontaneously form bilayered vesicles in water, and could have preceded RNA.
cell_biology: The largest bacterium known, Thiomargarita magnifica, is visible to the naked eye with an average length of 1 cm, but can reach 2 cm.
cell_biology: It is a phase-dark body that is composed of an aggregation of membrane-bound vesicles containing cell wall components, serving as a point of assemblage and release of such components intermediate between the Golgi and the cell membrane.
cell_biology: They digest excess or worn-out organelles, food particles, and engulfed viruses or bacteria.
cell_biology: This leads to the growth of tissue in multicellular organisms.
cell_biology: Plastids divide by binary fission.
cell_biology: All multicellular organisms are made up of many different types of cell.
cell_biology: Organelles in plant cells, include pigment-containing plastids, especially chloroplasts that contain chlorophyll (also found in algae), large water-storage vacuoles, and two types of peroxisome.
cell_biology: Other organelles present in all eukaryotic cells are the endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomes, the Golgi apparatus, mitochondria, lysosomes, peroxisomes, endosomes, and vesicles.
cell_biology: Compartmentalization is a key feature of eukaryotic cells but some species of bacteria, have protein-based organelle-like microcompartments such as gas vesicles, and carboxysomes, and encapsulin nanocompartments.
cell_biology: Repair processes include nucleotide excision repair, DNA mismatch repair, non-homologous end joining of double-strand breaks, recombinational repair and light-dependent repair (photoreactivation).
cell_biology: Eukaryotes can be single-celled, as in diatoms (microscopic algae), or microfungi such as yeasts, or multicellular, as in animals, plants, most fungi, and seaweed (macroalgae).
cell_biology: Ciliates have two different sorts of nuclei: a tiny, diploid micronucleus (the "generative nucleus", which carries the germline of the cell), and a large, ampliploid macronucleus (the "vegetative nucleus", which takes care of general cell regulation.
cell_biology: All the cells in an animal body develop from one totipotent diploid cell called a zygote.
cell_biology: Individual cells are able to manage receptor sensitivity including turning them off, and receptors can become less sensitive when they are occupied for long durations.
cell_biology: The nucleus is spherical and separated from the cytoplasm by a double-membraned nuclear envelope.
cell_biology: This is widely agreed to have involved symbiogenesis, in which an archaean and a bacterium came together to create the first eukaryotic common ancestor.
cell_biology: The nucleus is a membrane-bound organelle.
cell_biology: What they discovered were significant differences between the two types of cells.
cell_biology: The acidity (pH) of the cytosol is near neutral, and is regulated by transporters in the cell membrane.
cell_biology: The cells of fungi have in addition to the shared eukaryotic organelles a spitzenkörper in their endomembrane system, associated with hyphal tip growth.
cell_biology: The spitzenkörper is motile and generates new hyphal tip growth as it moves forward.
cell_biology: Some protists such as amoebae may feed on other organisms and ingest food by phagocytosis.
cell_biology: By 1935, he had built an electron microscope with twice the resolution of a light microscope, revealing previously unresolvable organelles.
cell_biology: Complex sugars can be broken down into simpler sugar molecules called monosaccharides such as glucose.
cell_biology: There is little experimental data defining what the first self-replicating forms were.
cell_biology: A biological cell basically consists of a semipermeable cell membrane enclosing cytoplasm that contains genetic material.
cell_biology: More advanced animals have an extra layer, the middle mesodermal layer, and are known as triploblastic.
cell_biology: Slime molds consist of different groups of microorganisms grouped together in a multicellular-like fashion.
cell_biology: All of these membranes are involved in the secretory and endocytic pathways, modifying, packaging, and transporting proteins and lipids to and from the trans Golgi network.
cell_biology: It has been best described in the fluid mosaic model.
cell_biology: The cell membrane encloses the cytoplasm of the cell that surrounds all of the cell's organelles.
cell_biology: Underlying, and attached to the cell membrane is the cell cortex, the outermost part of the actin cytoskeleton.
cell_biology: — 2006 animation of molecular mechanisms inside cells
cell_biology: One type of peroxisome is in the leaves where it takes part in photorespiration.
cell_biology: There are several types of organelles held in the cytoplasm.
cell_biology: Signal receptors are complex proteins or tightly bound multimer of proteins, located in the plasma membrane or within the interior.
cell_biology: They each consist of two subunits, one larger than the other, and act as an assembly line where messenger RNA from the nucleus is used to synthesise proteins from amino acids.
cell_biology: The centrosome is a membrane-less organelle composed of pericentriolar material and the two centrioles.
cell_biology: The outermost part of the cytoskeleton is the cell cortex, or actin cortex, a thin layer of cross-linked actomyosins.
cell_biology: A unique form of metabolism in the archaean is methanogenesis.
cell_biology: Each cell is programmed to respond to specific extracellular signal molecules, and this process is the basis of development, tissue repair, immunity, and homeostasis.
cell_biology: During cell division, a single cell, the mother cell divides into two daughter cells.
cell_biology: Vertebrates for example have specialized, structurally changed cells including muscle cells.
cell_biology: Other excretory cells also found in planarians are solenocytes that are long and flagellated.
cell_biology: Motile cilia also known as flagella, drive the sperm cells.
cell_biology: Eukaryotic cell types include those that make up animals, plants, fungi, algae, and protists.
cell_biology: Its thickness varies with cell type and physiology.
cell_biology: Cells are capable of synthesizing new proteins, which are essential for the modulation and maintenance of cellular activities.
cell_biology: The other type is in germinating seeds where it takes part in the conversion of fatty acids into sugars for the plant's growth.
cell_biology: It also prevents the cell from expanding and bursting (cytolysis) from osmotic pressure due to a hypotonic environment.
cell_biology: These are large flat cells in the electric eel, and electric ray in which thousands are stacked into an electric organ comparable to a voltaic pile.
cell_biology: The last eukaryotic common ancestor gave rise to the eukaryotes' crown group, containing the ancestors of animals, fungi, plants, and a diverse range of single-celled organisms.
cell_biology: Proteins can be targeted to the inner space of an organelle, different intracellular membranes, the plasma membrane, or to the exterior of the cell via secretion.
cell_biology: Eukaryotic cells contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria, which provide energy for cell functions, and chloroplasts, in plants that create sugars by photosynthesis.
cell_biology: Some bacteria contain multiple circular or even linear chromosomes.
cell_biology: It is one of several types of membrane-less nuclear bodies.
cell_biology: This process involves the formation of new protein molecules from amino acid building blocks based on information encoded in DNA/RNA.
cell_biology: Cell walls perform many essential functions, they provide shape to form the tissue and organs of the plant, and play an important role in intercellular communication and plant-microbe interactions.
cell_biology: The cell wall consists of peptidoglycan and acts as an additional barrier against exterior forces.
cell_biology: The process is divided into three steps: protrusion of the leading edge of the cell, adhesion of the leading edge and de-adhesion at the cell body and rear, and cytoskeletal contraction to pull the cell forward.
cell_biology: Certain membrane-bound prokaryotic organelles have also been discovered.
cell_biology: Cells emerged around 4 billion years ago.
cell_biology: Unicellular organisms can move in order to find food or escape predators.
cell_biology: Most human cells have around 10,000 vaults, and in some types of immune cell there may be up to 100,000.
cell_biology: Ribosomes are also found freely in the cytoplasm, or attached to the cell membrane where DNA processing takes place.
cell_biology: Proteasomes are intricate membrane-less protein complexes responsible for the degradation of regulatory proteins, and damaged proteins in the cytosol and nucleus.
cell_biology: Protein synthesis generally consists of two major steps: transcription and translation.
cell_biology: Most prokaryotes are the smallest of all organisms, ranging from 0.1 to 5.0 μm in diameter.
cell_biology: Archaea are enclosed in a cell envelope consisting of a plasma membrane and a cell wall.
cell_biology: Leucoplasts are non-pigmented plastids and helps in storage of nutrients.
cell_biology: Cells in multicellular organisms can move during processes such as wound healing, the immune response, and cancer metastasis.
cell_biology: Chloroplasts are not found in fungal cells, their pigments are instead associated with their cell walls.
cell_biology: XVIVO website.
cell_biology: Specialized cell-to-cell communication pathways known as plasmodesmata, occur in the form of pores in the primary cell wall through which the cell membrane and endoplasmic reticulum of adjacent cells are continuous.
cell_biology: Fimbriae are formed of an antigenic protein called pilin, and are responsible for the attachment of bacteria to specific receptors on host cells.
cell_biology: The many species of vertebrates for example have other unique characteristics by way of additional specialized cells.
cell_biology: And some organelles also project extensions such as stromules from plastids in plant cells, peroxules from peroxisomes, and matrixules from mitochondria.
cell_biology: The cytoskeleton acts to organize and maintain the cell's shape; anchors organelles in place; helps during endocytosis, and in the uptake of external materials by a cell.The cytoskeleton is composed of microtubules, intermediate filaments and microfilaments.
cell_biology: The Golgi apparatus processes and packages proteins, and lipids, that are synthesized by the cell.
cell_biology: It houses the cell's chromosomes, and is the place where almost all DNA replication and RNA synthesis (transcription) occur.
cell_biology: There are no known archaean pathogens.
cell_biology: Multicellular eukaryotes include all animals, and plants, most fungi, and some species of algae.
cell_biology: They may play a role in transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, and may serve as scaffolds for signal transduction proteins.
cell_biology: Cutin is secreted outside the primary cell wall and into the outer layers of the secondary cell wall of the epidermal cells of leaves, stems and other above-ground organs to form the plant cuticle.
cell_biology: Cell signaling is the process by which a cell interacts with itself, other cells, and the environment.
cell_biology: Once inside the cell, glucose is broken down to make adenosine triphosphate (ATP), a molecule that possesses readily available energy, through two different pathways.
cell_biology: Single-celled eukaryotes include most protists, some species of fungi (yeasts), and some species of algae.
cell_biology: Differentiation of cells is driven by different environmental cues (such as cell–cell interaction) and intrinsic differences (such as those caused by the uneven distribution of molecules during division).
cell_biology: Chloroplasts capture the sun's energy to make carbohydrates through photosynthesis.
cell_biology: The DNA of a bacterium typically consists of a single circular chromosome that is in direct contact with the cytoplasm in a region called the nucleoid.
cell_biology: The origin of cells has to do with the origin of life, which began the history of life on Earth.
cell_biology: Cells use DNA for their long-term information storage that is encoded in its DNA sequence.
cell_biology: Primary cilia play important roles in chemosensation and mechanosensation.
cell_biology: EPS enables microbial cell adhesion, and is believed to be the first evolutionary step toward multicellular organisms.
cell_biology: Different groups of cells differentiate from the germ layers.
cell_biology: DNA replication does not occur when the cells divide the second time, in meiosis II.
cell_biology: Plant cells have cell walls composed of cellulose, hemicelluloses, and pectin that are constructed outside the cell membrane.
cell_biology: The nucleolus is a specialized biomolecular condensate within the nucleus where ribosome subunits are assembled.
cell_biology: Metabolism has two distinct divisions: catabolism, in which the cell breaks down complex molecules to produce energy and reducing power, and anabolism, in which the cell uses energy and reducing power to construct complex molecules and perform other biological functions.
cell_biology: The DNA of each cell is its genetic material, and is organized in multiple linear molecules, called chromosomes, that are coiled around histone proteins and housed in the cell nucleus.
cell_biology: Cell theory, developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann, states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells, that cells are the fundamental unit of structure and function in all organisms, and that all cells come from pre-existing cells.
cell_biology: Transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules are used to add amino acids during protein translation.
cell_biology: A space between the membranes is called the perinuclear space.
cell_biology: The membrane is semi-permeable, and selectively permeable, in that it can either let a substance (molecule or ion) pass through freely, to a limited extent or not at all.
cell_biology: The emergence of the basement membrane coincided with the origin of multicellularity.
cell_biology: The cytoplasm also contains ribosomes and various inclusions where transcription takes place alongside translation.
cell_biology: The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a transport network for molecules targeted for certain modifications and specific destinations, as compared to molecules that float freely in the cytoplasm.
cell_biology: Epithelium as mesothelium forms the lining of many organs, and inner cavities.
cell_biology: All three types are linked to the cell cytoskeleton.
cell_biology: The cell wall acts to protect the cell mechanically and chemically from its environment, and is an additional layer of protection to the cell membrane.
cell_biology: The archaea are noted for their extremophile species, and many are selectively evolved to thrive in conditions of extreme heat, cold, acidity, alkalinity, or high salt.
cell_biology: It is organized as a stack of plate-like structures known as cisternae.
cell_biology: Membrane-less organelles include the nucleolus in the nucleus, centrosomes, ribosomes, proteasomes, and vaults.
cell_biology: The DNA is contained in a circular chromosome in direct contact with the cytoplasm, in a region known as the nucleoid.
cell_biology: The ribosome mediates the formation of a polypeptide sequence based on the mRNA sequence.
cell_biology: Protein targeting or protein sorting is the biological mechanism by which proteins are transported to their appropriate destinations within or outside the cell.
cell_biology: The term comes from the Latin word cellula meaning 'small room'.
cell_biology: Most distinct cell types arise from a single totipotent cell, called a zygote, that differentiates into hundreds of different cell types during the course of development.
cell_biology: Aerobic respiration in the mitochondria generates the cell's energy by oxidative phosphorylation, using oxygen to release energy stored in cellular nutrients (typically pertaining to glucose) to generate adenosine triphosphate (ATP).
cell_biology: The new polypeptide chain then folds into a functional three-dimensional protein molecule.
cell_biology: A diploid cell may undergo meiosis to produce haploid cells, usually four.
cell_biology: Most organelles are membrane-bound, and vary in size and number based on the growth of the host cell.
cell_biology: Fundamentals of Cell Biology by Lauren Dalton and Robin Young
"The Inner Life of the Cell".
cell_biology: An exception to this is the Thermoplasma that only has the cell membrane.
cell_biology: 1839: Theodor Schwann and Matthias Jakob Schleiden elucidated the principle that plants and animals are made of cells, concluding that cells are a common unit of structure and development, founding the cell theory.
cell_biology: Mitochondria multiply by binary fission and have their own DNA contained in multiple small circular chromosomes.
cell_biology: In his book Micrographia he coined the term cell (from Latin cellula, meaning "small room") since they resembled the cells of a monastery.
cell_biology: Other membrane-less organelles may be proteinaceous, such as the ribosomes present (though different) in both groups.
cell_biology: The first evidence of multicellularity in an organism comes from cyanobacteria-like organisms that lived between 3 and 3.5 billion years ago.
cell_biology: The microtubule organizing center in plant cells is often sited underneath the cell membrane where nucleated microtubules often form sheet-like semi-parallel arrays.
cell_biology: mRNA molecules bind to protein-RNA complexes called ribosomes located in the cytosol, where they are translated into polypeptide sequences.
cell_biology: They are present in normal tissues, and more so in secretory and excretory epithelial cells.
cell_biology: It evolved into a population of single-celled organisms that included the last eukaryotic common ancestor, gaining capabilities along the way.
cell_biology: Vacuoles sequester waste products.
cell_biology: Triploblastic animals make up the large clade of Bilateria.
cell_biology: Cell metabolism is the process by which individual cells process nutrient molecules.
cell_biology: It contains over 60 different hydrolytic enzymes that need an acidic environment.
cell_biology: Bacteria are enclosed in a cell envelope, that protects the interior from the exterior.
cell_biology: The ER has two forms: the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER), which has ribosomes on its surface that secrete proteins into the ER, and the smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER), which lacks ribosomes.
cell_biology: Fimbriae are short attachment pili, the other type of pilus is the longer conjugative type.
cell_biology: 1665: Robert Hooke discovered cells in cork, then in living plant tissue using an early microscope.
cell_biology: The sponge has only one layer.
cell_biology: In eukaryotes, photosynthesis is made possible by the use of plastids, organelles in the cytoplasm known as chloroplasts.
cell_biology: Cell surface receptors in the membrane allow cells to detect external signaling molecules such as hormones.
cell_biology: Some eukaryotes cells including plant cells and fungi have a cell wall.
cell_biology: Transcription is the process where genetic information in DNA is used to produce a complementary RNA strand.
cell_biology: The early cell membranes were probably simpler and more permeable than later ones, with only a single fatty acid chain per lipid.
cell_biology: The capsule may be polysaccharide as in pneumococci, meningococci or polypeptide as Bacillus anthracis or hyaluronic acid as in streptococci.
cell_biology: To further support his theory, Matthias Schleiden and Theodor Schwann studied cells of both animal and plants.
cell_biology: Most cell types include vaults.
cell_biology: Cell motility involves many receptors, crosslinking, bundling, binding, adhesion, motor and other proteins.
cell_biology: The nucleus is the largest membrane-bound organelle in the eukaryotic cell.
cell_biology: The ectoderm gives rise to several different types of epithelial tissues including the skin, and glands, and to the nervous tissue.
cell_biology: The peroxisomes in animal cells are concentrated in the liver cells and adipocytes.
cell_biology: In this peroxisome type the enzymatic content is so different from other groups that it has an alternative name of glyoxysome.
cell_biology: Chromoplasts contain fat-soluble carotenoid pigments such as orange carotene and yellow xanthophylls which helps in synthesis and storage.
cell_biology: Repair is vital to maintain DNA integrity, avoid cell death and errors of replication that could lead to mutation.
cell_biology: Plant hormones are produced by all plant cells.
cell_biology: Typically, the signaling process involves three components: the first messenger (the ligand), the receptor, and the signal itself.
cell_biology: Organelles include the nucleus, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, lysosomes, peroxisomes, vesicles, and vacuoles.
cell_biology: Invertebrate planarians have ciliated excretory flame cells.
cell_biology: The enzymatic content of the peroxisomes varies widely across the species, as it can in an individual organism.
cell_biology: A separate mode of cellular death is known as a mitotic catastrophe, which occurs during mitosis, following the improper progression of, or entrance to the cell cycle.
