central_america: When Agustín de Iturbide abdicated as emperor of Mexico on 19 March 1823, Central America again became independent.
central_america: For the people in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, formerly parts of the Federal Republic of Central America, there is a distinction between the Spanish language terms "América Central" and "Centroamérica".
central_america: Enslaved Africans started arriving through Santiago in 1543, but smaller shipments had previously been made to Honduras through the port of Trujillo.
central_america: On 6 December 2008, SICA announced an agreement to pursue a common currency and common passport for the member nations.
central_america: Source: Jason Mandrik, Operation World Statistics (2020).
central_america: Because of the 87-kilometer (54 mi) break in the highway known as the Darién Gap, it is not possible to cross between Central America and South America in an automobile.
central_america: Guatemala formally recognized 21 of these in 1996.
central_america: Since 1999, tourism has earned more foreign exchange than bananas, pineapples and coffee exports combined.
central_america: In 1538, Spain established the Real Audiencia of Panama, which had jurisdiction over all land from the Strait of Magellan to the Gulf of Fonseca.
central_america: Poverty, social injustice, and violence are still widespread.
central_america: This tectonic plate converges with the Cocos, Nazca, and North American plates to form the Middle America Trench, a major subduction zone.
central_america: Higher elevations above 1,800 metres (5,900 ft) are usually covered with Central American montane forests.
central_america: In Portuguese as a rule and occasionally in Spanish and other languages, the entirety of the Antilles is often included in the definition of Central America.
central_america: From 1502 onward, Spain began its colonization.
central_america: The table below shows recent statistics:
central_america: Central America Video Links from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives
Central America country pages
Teaching Central America
central_america: Central America was formed more than 3 million years ago, as part of the Isthmus of Panama, when its portion of land connected each side of water.
central_america: Since the 1960s, there has been an increase in other Christian groups, particularly Protestantism, as well as other religious organizations, and individuals identifying themselves as having no religion.
central_america: Under Northern Eyes: Latin American Studies and Us Hegemony in the Americas, 1898–1990.
central_america: Many of the enslaved Africans that arrived in Central American ports were transported through land or boats.
central_america: After more than two hundred years of social unrest, violent conflict, and revolution, Central America today remains in a period of political transformation.
central_america: Perez-Brignoli, Hector.
central_america: The Belize Barrier Reef is part of this.
central_america: Seismic activity at the Motagua Fault has been responsible for earthquakes in 1717, 1773, 1902, 1976, 1980, and 2009.
central_america: More and more African slaves arrived in Central America due to the fact that many enslaved people were getting sick.
central_america: 36% of Belize's land territory falls under some form of official protected status, giving Belize one of the most extensive systems of terrestrial protected areas in the Americas.
central_america: New members have since then joined including Panama and the Dominican Republic.
central_america: Panama was part of the Province of Tierra Firme from 1510 until 1538 when it came under the jurisdiction of the newly formed Audiencia Real de Panama.
central_america: SICA provides a clear legal basis to avoid disputes between the member states.
central_america: The Central American red brocket is a brocket deer found in Central America's tropical forest.
central_america: online
Bowman, Kirk, Fabrice Lehoucq, and James Mahoney.
central_america: Some physiographists define the Isthmus of Tehuantepec as the northern geographic border of Central America, while others use the northwestern borders of Belize and Guatemala.
central_america: The region is particularly attractive for companies (especially clothing companies) because of its geographical proximity to the United States, very low wages and considerable tax advantages.
central_america: The tourism boom began in 1987, with the number of visitors up from 329,000 in 1988, through 1.03 million in 1999, to a historical record of 2.43 million foreign visitors and $1.92-billion in revenue in 2013.
central_america: (Indiana UP, 1995).
central_america: Other Christian include Other Traditional Churches (Orthodox, Episcopalian, etc.) and contemporary churches (Mormons, Adventists, Scientology, etc.), also include Non-denominational Christian who are the most numerous group, specially in Guatemala.
central_america: The exact date of the enslaved African arrival to Central America is difficult to determine.
central_america: These forests are of the moist deciduous and the semi-evergreen seasonal subtype of tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests and receive high overall rainfall with a warm summer wet season and a cooler winter dry season.
central_america: In 2010 Belize had 63% of remaining forest cover, Costa Rica 46%, Panama 45%, Honduras 41%, Guatemala 37%, Nicaragua 29%, and El Salvador 21%.
central_america: After their departure most enslaved Africans arrived either in Guatemala or Honduras.
central_america: On 1 July 1823, the Congress of Central America peacefully seceded from Mexico and declared absolute independence from all foreign nations, and the region formed the Federal Republic of Central America.
central_america: Fertile soils from weathered volcanic lava have made it possible to sustain dense populations in the agriculturally productive highland areas.
central_america: Pearcy, Thomas L.
central_america: Of the many mountain ranges within Central America, the longest are the Sierra Madre de Chiapas, the Cordillera Isabelia and the Cordillera de Talamanca.
central_america: A large coral reef extends from Mexico to Honduras: the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System.
central_america: In 1862, Britain formally declared it a British colony and named it British Honduras.
central_america: The predominant religion in Central America is Christianity (95.6%).
central_america: "Measuring political democracy: Case expertise, data adequacy, and Central America." Comparative Political Studies 38.8 (2005): 939–970.
central_america: Panama remained as part of the Viceroyalty of Peru until 1739, when it was transferred to the Viceroyalty of New Granada, the capital of which was located at Santa Fé de Bogotá.
central_america: However the southern countries (Costa Rica and Panama) of the region have more biodiversity than the northern countries (Guatemala and Belize), meanwhile the central countries (Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador) have the least biodiversity.
central_america: Pérez, Orlando J.
central_america: von Feigenblatt, Otto Federico.
central_america: Madrid: Visor.
central_america: In some cases, business leaders have used the services of the maras.
central_america: The Middle America Trench is not the only source of seismic activity in Central America.
central_america: Between the mountain ranges lie fertile valleys that are suitable for the raising of livestock and for the production of coffee, tobacco, beans and other crops.
central_america: Central America already has several supranational institutions such as the Central American Parliament, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration and the Central American Common Market.
central_america: The pine-oak forests lie between 600–1,800 metres (2,000–5,900 ft) elevation, and are surrounded at lower elevations by tropical moist forests and tropical dry forests.
central_america: Voces y perspectivas en la poesia latinoamericana del siglo XX.
central_america: "Central America and the United States: Overlooked foreign policy objectives." The Americas (1993): 1–30 online.
central_america: This sector accounts for 42 per cent of total exports from El Salvador, 55 per cent from Guatemala, and 65 per cent from Honduras.
central_america: El Salvador also became the headquarters of SICA with the inauguration of a new building.
central_america: Another form would be through marriage.
central_america: Panama remained as part of the Viceroyalty of New Granada until the disestablishment of that viceroyalty in 1819.
central_america: Tree species include evergreen oaks, members of the laurel family, species of Weinmannia and Magnolia, and Drimys granadensis.
central_america: Other high points of Central America are as listed in the table below:
central_america: Sola, Mauricio.
central_america: President Óscar Arias of Costa Rica, however, established diplomatic relations with China in 2007, severing formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan.
central_america: The Central American Parliament (aka PARLACEN) is a political and parliamentary body of SICA.
central_america: Central American music
Central American cuisine
List of cuisines of the Americas – Central American cuisine
central_america: As a bridge between North America and South America, Central America has many species from the Nearctic and the Neotropical realms.
central_america: The results for Nicaragua's tourism-driven economy have been significant, with the nation welcoming one million tourists in a calendar year for the first time in its history in 2010.
central_america: The majority of the population is mestizo, with sizable Mayan and African descendent populations present, along with numerous other indigenous groups such as the Miskito people.
central_america: Hernández, Consuelo (2009).
central_america: Enslaved Africans were able to gain their freedom in 1824, but prior to that there were many different actions taken by enslaved people to earn their freedom earlier.
central_america: Its political boundaries are defined as bordering Mexico to the north, Colombia to the southeast, the Caribbean to the east, and the Pacific Ocean to the southwest.
central_america: This transform fault cuts right across Guatemala and then continues offshore until it merges with the Middle America Trench along the Pacific coast of Mexico, near Acapulco.
central_america: By 1528, the conquest of Guatemala was nearly complete, with only the Petén Basin remaining outside the Spanish sphere of influence.
central_america: The Captaincy General formally ended on 15 September 1821, with the signing of the Act of Independence of Central America.
central_america: Within Central America is the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, which extends from southern Mexico to southeastern Panama.
central_america: From there, the Central American land mass extends southeastward to the Atrato River, where it connects to the Pacific Lowlands in northwestern South America.
central_america: The underlying problems are deforestation, which is estimated by FAO at 1.2% per year in Central America and Mexico combined, fragmentation of rainforests and the fact that 80% of the vegetation in Central America has already been converted to agriculture.
central_america: It is home to 70 hard coral species, 36 soft coral species, 500 species of fish and hundreds of invertebrate species.
central_america: Almost half of the bird population of the Talamancan montane forests in Costa Rica and Panama are endemic to this region.
central_america: In addition, 13% of Belize's marine territory are also protected.
central_america: Volcanic eruptions are also common in Central America.
central_america: The exact causes for its extinction are unknown.
central_america: Belizean Prime Minister Dean Barrow has stated his intention to use tourism to combat poverty throughout the country.
central_america: Belize is also the only country in Central America with English as its official language, making this country a comfortable destination for English-speaking tourists.
central_america: Many of the amphibians are endemic and depend on the existence of forest.
central_america: From 1855 until 1886, Panama existed as the State of Panama, first within the Republic of New Granada, then within the Granadine Confederation, and finally within the United States of Colombia.
central_america: Tourism in Costa Rica is one of the fastest growing economic sectors of the country, having become the largest source of foreign revenue by 1995.
central_america: Guatemala has the largest economy in the region.
central_america: The Inter-American Highway is the Central American section of the Pan-American Highway, and spans 5,470 kilometers (3,400 mi) between Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, and Panama City, Panama.
central_america: online
Craig, Kern William.
central_america: It provided for a federal capital, initially located in Guatemala City, and a president for each of the five constituent states.
central_america: Its main exports are coffee, sugar, bananas, petroleum, clothing, and cardamom.
central_america: Central America is usually defined as consisting of seven countries: Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama, and also sometimes includes Mexico.
central_america: In the case of infringements, the labour inspectorate shows remarkable leniency.
central_america: New York: Columbia University Press.
central_america: Biekart, Kees.
central_america: Only after that time did some begin to regard Panama as a North or Central American entity.
central_america: They are also criticised for the working conditions of employees: insults and physical violence, abusive dismissals (especially of pregnant workers), working hours, non-payment of overtime.
central_america: In 1838, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua became the first of Central America's states to become independent countries, followed by El Salvador in 1841, Panama in 1903, and Belize in 1981.
central_america: Spain, and later Guatemala, considered this land a Guatemalan department.
central_america: The United Nations geoscheme for the Americas defines Central America as all states of mainland North America south of the United States, including Mexico, but historically and politically Mexico is considered North American.
central_america: So far only about 10% of the species in the Belize barrier reef have been discovered.
central_america: Nicaraguan president Daniel Ortega has stated his intention to use tourism to combat poverty throughout the country.
central_america: Reconstruyendo a Centroamérica a través de la poesía.
central_america: Until recently, all Central American countries maintained diplomatic relations with Taiwan instead of China.
central_america: The federation was established after these regions declared independence from Spain in 1821 and briefly joined the Mexican Empire before breaking away to form their own union.
central_america: Such holdings gave it great power over the governments of small countries.
central_america: The Second Conquest of Latin America: Coffee, Henequen, and Oil During the Export Boom, 1850–1930 (U of Texas Press, 2010).
central_america: "Public Policy in Central America: An Empirical Analysis." Public Administration Research 2.2 (2013): 105+ online.
central_america: Central America has the Gulf of Mexico, a body of water within the Atlantic Ocean, to the north; the Caribbean Sea, also part of the Atlantic Ocean, to the northeast; and the Pacific Ocean to the southwest.
central_america: The results for Belize's tourism-driven economy have been significant, with the nation welcoming almost one million tourists in a calendar year for the first time in its history in 2012.
central_america: The Spanish-speaking countries officially include both North America and South America as a single continent, América, which is split into four subregions: Central America, The Caribbean (a.k.a.
central_america: Although not always granted freedom for the enslaved person getting married, the child would be free.
central_america: The Federal Republic of Central America, initially known as the United Provinces of Central America, was a sovereign state that existed from 1823 to 1840.
central_america: The Chains of Interdependence: US Policy Toward Central America, 1945–1954 (ME Sharpe, 1996).
central_america: Historical Dictionary of El Salvador (Rowman & Littlefield, 2016).
central_america: the West Indies), North America (Mexico and Northern America), and South America.
central_america: Most of Central America rests atop the Caribbean Plate.
central_america: Over 300 species of the region's flora and fauna are threatened, 107 of which are classified as critically endangered.
central_america: The Central American montane forests are an ecoregion of the tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests biome, as defined by the World Wildlife Fund.
central_america: Central America is geologically very active, with volcanic eruptions and earthquakes occurring frequently, and tsunamis occurring occasionally.
central_america: The Middle America Trench is situated some 60–160 kilometers (37–99 mi) off the Pacific coast of Central America and runs roughly parallel to it.
central_america: On 9 December 2021, Nicaragua resumed relations with the PRC.
central_america: The highest temperatures occur in April, due to higher levels of sunlight, lower cloud cover and a decrease in trade winds.
central_america: Many thousands of people have died as a result of these natural disasters.
central_america: Laurel forest is the most common type of Central American temperate evergreen cloud forest, found in almost all Central American countries, normally more than 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) above sea level.
central_america: Most of the population of Honduras, Costa Rica and Guatemala lives in valleys.
central_america: Tourism in Belize has grown considerably in more recent times, and it is now the second largest industry in the nation.
central_america: This region of the continent is very rich in terms of ethnic groups.
central_america: With an area of 523,780 square kilometers (202,230 sq mi), it has a population density of 97.3 per square kilometre (252 per square mile).
central_america: Protestantism in Central America also include Independent Christian, most of total Protestants in this region (+80%) are Evangelicals, the rest follow traditional beliefs.
central_america: In 1991, the integration agenda was further advanced by the creation of the Central American Integration System (Sistema para la Integración Centroamericana, or SICA).
central_america: They timber in Belize, sugar in Guatemala, indigo plantations in El Salvador.
central_america: "Assessing the 'arrival of Democracy' in Central America." (2014): 117–126.
central_america: In the Pre-Columbian era, the northern areas of Central America were inhabited by the indigenous peoples of Mesoamerica.
central_america: The most significant regrowth of 3,050 square kilometers (1,180 sq mi) of forest was seen in the coniferous woody vegetation of Honduras.
central_america: Temperatures in Central America are highest just prior to the summer wet season, and are lowest during the winter dry season, when trade winds contribute to a cooler climate.
central_america: In 1968 the Arenal Volcano, in Costa Rica, erupted killing 87 people as the 3 villages of Tabacon, Pueblo Nuevo and San Luis were buried under pyroclastic flows and debris.
central_america: In 1609 the area became a captaincy general and the governor was also granted the title of captain general.
central_america: Following the Spanish expedition of Christopher Columbus's voyages to the Americas, the Spanish sent many expeditions to the region, and they began their conquest of Maya territory in 1523.
central_america: The Caribbean is occasionally excluded from this subregion while The Guianas are infrequently included.
central_america: Three categories were used to describe them: Bozal; which meant they had just arrived and had little knowledge of the Spanish language; Ladino, someone fluent in Spanish; and Criollo, which was someone who had been born outside of Africa.
central_america: President of El Salvador Nayib Bukele broke diplomatic relations with Taiwan and established ties with China.
central_america: The pre-Columbian cultures of eastern Honduras, Caribbean Nicaragua, most of Costa Rica and Panama were predominantly speakers of the Chibchan languages at the time of European contact and are considered by some culturally different and grouped in the Isthmo-Colombian Area.
central_america: The only cloud forest in the Pacific coastal zone of Central America is on the Mombacho volcano in Nicaragua.
central_america: Many large earthquakes have occurred as a result of seismic activity at the Middle America Trench.
central_america: It became independent as Belize in 1981.
central_america: Despite the many political reorganizations, Colombia was still deeply plagued by conflict, which eventually led to the secession of Panama on 3 November 1903.
central_america: After breaking off relations with the Republic of China in 2017, Panama established diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China.
central_america: Managua, the capital of Nicaragua, was devastated by earthquakes in 1931 and 1972.
central_america: Most of Central America falls under the Isthmo-Colombian cultural area.
central_america: A series of military and political struggles took place from that time until 1822, the result of which produced the republic of Gran Colombia.
central_america: Beginning with the Spanish colonization of Central America in the 16th century, Catholicism became the most popular religion in the region until the first half of the 20th century.
central_america: From Sovereign Villages to National States: City, State, and Federation in Central America, 1759–1839 (UNM Press, 2006).
central_america: The last independent Maya kingdoms – the Kowoj and the Itza people – were finally defeated in 1697, as part of the Spanish conquest of Petén.
central_america: On 24 August 1821, Spanish Viceroy Juan de O'Donojú signed the Treaty of Córdoba, which established New Spain's independence and autonomy from mainland Spain.
central_america: Leonard, Thomas M.
central_america: At 4,220 meters (13,850 ft), Volcán Tajumulco is the highest peak in Central America.
central_america: We Answer Only to God: Politics and the Military in Panama, 1903–1947 (University of New Mexico Press, 1998).
central_america: Costa Rica is the most visited nation in Central America.
central_america: As part of the Republic of Colombia, the State of Panama was abolished and it became the Isthmus Department.
central_america: Central America is part of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, boasting 7% of the world's biodiversity.
central_america: The Motagua Fault is an onshore continuation of the Cayman Trough which forms part of the tectonic boundary between the North American Plate and the Caribbean Plate.
central_america: A Brief History of Central America (Univ of California Press, 1989).
central_america: Beginning in 1543, Panama was administered as part of the Viceroyalty of Peru, along with all other Spanish possessions in South America.
central_america: The Belize Barrier Reef is home to a large diversity of plants and animals, and is one of the most diverse ecosystems of the world.
central_america: The enslaved Africans who arrived in Central America were for many different forms of labor, such as mining in Honduras and Nicaragua.
central_america: Some of New Spain's provinces in the Central American region were invaded and annexed to the First Mexican Empire, but in 1823 they seceded from Mexico to form the Federal Republic of Central America.
central_america: Beginning with his arrival in Soconusco in 1523, Alvarado's forces systematically conquered and subjugated most of the major Maya kingdoms, including the K'iche', Tz'utujil, Pipil, and the Kaqchikel.
central_america: The republic adopted a constitution in 1824, which was inspired by the federal system of the United States.
central_america: Most notable among these were the Mayans, who had built numerous cities throughout the region, and the Aztecs, who had created a vast empire.
central_america: In Nicaragua, cloud forests are situated near the border with Honduras, but many were cleared to grow coffee.
central_america: In Costa Rica, there are laurel forests in the Cordillera de Tilarán and Volcán Arenal, called Monteverde, also in the Cordillera de Talamanca.
central_america: Spanish fluency was often valued more, but if the enslaved African was newly arrived they were also bought and taught different forms of labor in order to resell for a higher price.
central_america: Although the group was disbanded in 1986, ideas of unity of Central Americans still remained, so a treaty was signed in 1987 to create the Central American Parliament and other political bodies.
central_america: According to Lucrecia Bautista, coordinator of the maquilas sector of the audit firm Coverco, "labour law regulations are regularly violated in maquilas and there is no political will to enforce their application.
central_america: Due to the nature of their captures it is unclear as to exactly where they came from, but assumed to be from West Central Africa as most ships departed from there.
central_america: For example, subduction of the Cocos Plate beneath the North American Plate at the Middle America Trench is believed to have caused the 1985 Mexico City earthquake that killed as many as 40,000 people.
central_america: Most of the loss occurred in the moist forest biome, with 12,201 square kilometers (4,711 sq mi).
central_america: Though less active than the Motagua Fault, seismic activity at the Chixoy-Polochic Fault is still thought to be capable of producing very large earthquakes, such as the 1816 earthquake of Guatemala.
central_america: SICA membership includes the 7 nations of Central America plus the Dominican Republic, a state that is traditionally considered part of the Caribbean.
central_america: The cloud forest of Sierra de las Minas, Guatemala, is the largest in Central America.
central_america: Middle America is usually thought to comprise Mexico in the north and the seven states of Central America in the south, as well as the Caribbean in the east.
central_america: On 22 July 2011, President Mauricio Funes of El Salvador became the first president pro tempore to SICA.
central_america: Economic growth in Central America is projected to slow slightly in 2014–15, as country-specific domestic factors offset the positive effects from stronger economic activity in the United States.
central_america: Mayan languages constitute a language family consisting of about 26 related languages.
central_america: The golden toad that once inhabited a small region in the Monteverde Reserve, which is part of the Talamancan montane forests, has not been seen alive since 1989 and is listed as extinct by IUCN.
central_america: In some areas of southeastern Honduras there are cloud forests, the largest located near the border with Nicaragua.
central_america: However, the unity of the ODECA was limited by conflicts between several member states.
central_america: Xinca, Miskito, and Garifuna are also present in Central America.
central_america: In 2012 tourism contributed with 12.5% of the country's GDP and it was responsible for 11.7% of direct and indirect employment.
central_america: Oliva, Karen, and Chad Rector.
central_america: Woody vegetation loss was partially set off by a gain in the coniferous forest biome with 4,730 square kilometers (1,830 sq mi), and a gain in the dry forest biome at 2,054 square kilometers (793 sq mi).
central_america: Of its 10.29 billion dollar annual exports, 40.2% go to the United States, 11.1% to neighboring El Salvador, 8% to Honduras, 5.5% to Mexico, 4.7% to Nicaragua, and 4.3% to Costa Rica.
central_america: Signed in 2004, the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) is an agreement between the United States, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and the Dominican Republic.
central_america: Topik, Steven C., and Allen Wells, eds.
central_america: The president of the Audiencia, which had its seat in Antigua Guatemala, was the governor of the entire area.
central_america: In 1951 the integration process continued with the signature of the San Salvador Treaty, which created the ODECA, the Organization of Central American States.
central_america: Intervention and Regime Change in Nicaragua (U of Nebraska Press, 2005).
central_america: This area included the current territories of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and the Mexican state of Chiapas, but excluded the lands that would become Belize and Panama.
central_america: Dym, Jordana.
central_america: From 1609 to 1821, most Central American territories (except for what became Belize and Panama and including the modern Mexican state of Chiapas) were governed by the viceroyalty of New Spain from Mexico City as the Captaincy General of Guatemala.
central_america: The growth in tourism has positively affected the agricultural, commercial, and finance industries, as well as the construction industry.
central_america: From its independence from Spain in 1821 until 1823, the former Captaincy General remained intact as part of the short-lived First Mexican Empire.
central_america: That was one of the factors that led to the coining of the phrase banana republic.
central_america: Nicaragua is the second poorest country in the western hemisphere, after Haiti.
central_america: The parliament is the political organ of Central America, and is part of SICA.
central_america: In Ibero-America (Portuguese- and Spanish-speaking American countries), the Americas are considered a single continent (América), and Central America is considered a subregion of the continent comprising the seven countries south of Mexico and north of Colombia.
central_america: Inevitable Revolutions: The United States in Central America (WW Norton & Company, 1993).
central_america: In many instances enslaved Africans were used as overseers of the work being done by the enslaved indigenous people.
central_america: Central America is a subregion of North America.
central_america: Due to the presence of several active geologic faults and the Central America Volcanic Arc, seismic activity in the region, such as volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, is high, which has caused death, injury, and property damage.
central_america: Trade winds have a significant effect upon the climate of Central America.
central_america: The immigration of Arabs, Jews, Chinese, Europeans and others brought additional groups to the area.
central_america: Still experiencing frequent eruptions to this day, with the last one beginning in 2013, and still is going on to this day.
central_america: Before Christopher Columbus's voyages to the Americas, hundreds of indigenous peoples lived in the area.
central_america: Although El Salvador was also known for having cacao, Costa Rica's booming cacao plantations led to the arrival of many enslaved people through Panama.
central_america: The Captaincy General of Guatemala lasted for more than two centuries, but began to fray after a rebellion in 1811 which began in the Intendancy of San Salvador.
central_america: Seven small mammals are endemic to the Costa Rica-Chiriqui highlands within the Talamancan montane forest region.
central_america: Kruijt, Dirk.
central_america: Columbia Gazetteer of the World Online.
central_america: The Central American pine-oak forests are composed of many species characteristic of temperate North America including oak, pine, fir, and cypress.
central_america: Efforts to protect fauna and flora in the region are made by creating ecoregions and nature reserves.
central_america: No timeline for implementation was discussed.
central_america: On 15 September, the Act of Independence of Central America was enacted to announce Central America's separation from the Spanish Empire.
central_america: The official language majority in all Central American countries is Spanish, except in Belize, where the official language is English.
central_america: The Pacific Flyway is a major north–south flyway for migratory birds in the Americas, extending from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego.
central_america: The treaty is aimed at promoting free trade among its members.
central_america: The constitution abolished slavery and maintained the privileges of the Roman Catholic Church, while restricting suffrage to the upper classes.
central_america: The volcano with the most activity in Central America is Santa María.
central_america: The parliament started around 1980, and its primary goal was to resolve conflicts in Nicaragua, Guatemala, and El Salvador.
central_america: In addition, the decline in the prices of coffee and other export products and the structural adjustment measures promoted by the international financial institutions have partly ruined agriculture, favouring the emergence of maquiladoras.
central_america: The Captaincy General of Guatemala encompassed most of Central America, with the exception of present-day Belize and Panama.
central_america: Central America is a part of North America consisting of a tapering isthmus running from the southern extent of Mexico to the northwestern portion of South America.
central_america: List of countries by life expectancy at birth for 2023, according to the World Bank Group.
central_america: LaFeber, Walter.
central_america: Mangroves and deserts contributed only 1% to the loss in forest vegetation.
central_america: The entire ecoregion covers an area of 13,200 square kilometers (5,100 sq mi) and has a temperate climate with relatively high precipitation levels.
central_america: Indeed, the Dominican Republic is a full member of the Central American Integration System.
central_america: The territory that now makes up Belize was heavily contested in a dispute that continued for decades after Guatemala achieved independence.
central_america: "Costa Rica's Neo-Realist Foreign Policy: Lifting the Veil Hiding the Discursive Co-Optation of Human Rights, Human Security, and Cosmopolitan Official Rhetoric." International Journal of Arts & Sciences Conference, (2009).
central_america: Soon after the conquest of the Aztec Empire, Spanish conquistador Pedro de Alvarado commenced the conquest of northern Central America for the Spanish Empire.
central_america: Panama, situated in the southernmost part of Central America on the Isthmus of Panama, has for most of its history been culturally and politically linked to South America.
central_america: Central America has over 70 active volcanoes, 41 which are located in El Salvador, and Guatemala.
central_america: It is a question of not discouraging investors." Trade unionists are subject to pressure, and sometimes to kidnapping or murder.
central_america: Central America is currently undergoing a process of political, economic and cultural transformation that started in 1907 with the creation of the Central American Court of Justice.
central_america: Despite the dissolution of the Federal Republic of Central America, the five remaining countries, save for Panama and Belize, all preserved and maintained a Central American identity.
central_america: Jaguars, cougars, spider monkeys, as well as tapirs, and anteaters live in the woods of Central America.
central_america: Enslaved people in central America were made up of both Indigenous people and recently arrived Africans.
central_america: Seismic activity at the Middle America Trench is also responsible for earthquakes in 1902, 1942, 1956, 1972, 1982, 1992, January 2001, February 2001, 2007, 2012, 2014, and many other earthquakes throughout Central America.
central_america: Central American montane forests consist of forest patches located at altitudes ranging from 1,800–4,000 metres (5,900–13,100 ft), on the summits and slopes of the highest mountains in Central America ranging from Southern Mexico, through Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras, to northern Nicaragua.
central_america: After the dissolution of Gran Colombia in 1830, Panama became part of a successor state, the Republic of New Granada.
central_america: Due to the funnel-like shape of its land mass, migratory birds can be seen in very high concentrations in Central America, especially in the spring and autumn.
central_america: From 2001 to 2010, 5,376 square kilometers (2,076 sq mi) of forest were lost in the region.
central_america: Global warming may have played a role, because the development of that frog is typical for this area may have been compromised.
central_america: Its original members were Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Honduras.
central_america: It was composed of five states: Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica.
central_america: Mexican independence was achieved at virtually the same time with the signing of the Treaty of Córdoba and the Declaration of Independence of the Mexican Empire, and the entire region was fully independent from Spanish authority by 28 September 1821.
central_america: By the 1930s the United Fruit Company owned 14,000 square kilometres (3.5 million acres) of land in Central America and the Caribbean and was the single largest land owner in Guatemala.
central_america: online
Krenn, Michael L.
central_america: Santiago's position was a great way to raise Spanish economic and political positions serving as the seat of the Audiencia de Guatemala and outranking other Spanish settlements.
central_america: The bulk of the deforestation was located at the Caribbean slopes of Nicaragua with a loss of 8,574 square kilometers (3,310 sq mi) of forest in the period from 2001 to 2010.
central_america: This allowed for many other enslaved people to gain their freedom.
central_america: "Unbalanced Regional Political Integration Is Unstable: Evidence from the Federal Republic of Central America (1823–1838)." Available at SSRN 2429123 (2014) online.
central_america: Human Development Index values are from the estimates for 2017.
central_america: There are still some temperate evergreen hills in the north.
central_america: The United States of Colombia was replaced by the Republic of Colombia in 1886.
central_america: Guerrillas: War and Peace in Central America (2013).
central_america: Santiago de Guatemala was established in 1541 and became one of the most important trading posts due to its position between the Valley of Panchoy.
central_america: Several birds are listed as threatened, most notably the resplendent quetzal (Pharomacrus mocinno), three-wattled bellbird (Procnias tricarunculata), bare-necked umbrellabird (Cephalopterus glabricollis), and black guan (Chamaepetes unicolor).
central_america: Another onshore continuation of the Cayman Trough is the Chixoy-Polochic Fault, which runs parallel to, and roughly 80 kilometers (50 mi) to the north, of the Motagua Fault.
central_america: However, its contribution to the economies of these countries is disputed; raw materials are imported, jobs are precarious and low-paid, and tax exemptions weaken public finances.
central_america: Finally, black lists containing the names of trade unionists or political activists are circulating in employers' circles.
central_america: According to one source, the term "Central America" was used as a synonym for "Middle America" at least as recently as 1962.
central_america: Colombia and Venezuela of Caribbean South America are sometimes included in this subregion.
central_america: Tourism in Nicaragua has grown considerably recently, and it is now the second largest industry in the nation.
central_america: This entity was dissolved in 1543, and most of the territory within Central America then fell under the jurisdiction of the Audiencia Real de Guatemala.
central_america: During the early conquest of Central America an enslaved man named Juan Bardales was granted his freedom and received a pension after participating in the conquest of Panama and Honduras.
central_america: Arriving in small groups, enslaved Africans were bought based on gender and skill.
central_america: There are many records that establish Spanish requests to travel with enslaved Africans to Guatemala from 1530-1532.
central_america: Ecoregions are not only established to protect the forests themselves but also because they are habitats for an incomparably rich and often endemic fauna.
