championship: uses a title match system during regular play, then holds a Tournament of Champions with the longest-running champions under the title match system that operates on a tournament system to determine that season's "Grand Champion".
championship: Teams compete in a regular season of varying formats and a limited number of teams qualify for playoffs.
championship: In the NFL, the term "Championship game" is used to refer to the matches which decide the champions of each of the two conferences, the NFC (NFC Championship Game) and AFC (AFC Championship Game).
championship: The quirk in naming stems from when the NFC and AFC were separate leagues with a respective NFL Championship and AFL Championship, the winners of which would in the AFL's later years meet in the World Championship, now known as the Super Bowl.
championship: At the end of the season, the driver/team with the most points wins the championship.
championship: This type of system works best in competitions with numerous competitions in a short period of time (game shows such as Jeopardy!, in particular, fit this description, since there are five new title matches every week).
championship: The championship is often considered the final of the playoffs (e.g., Super Bowl, Stanley Cup Finals, NBA Finals, World Series, etc.).
championship: In sport, a championship is a competition in which the aim is to decide which individual or team is the champion.
championship: This format is predominant in American sports such as baseball, ice hockey and basketball, and on test cricket.
championship: Although this system is mostly identified with the United States and Canada, it is frequently found in other North American countries, and is also standard in sports influenced by North America (e.g.
championship: These games are effectively semi-finals as they determine the two competitors in the Super Bowl.
championship: basketball, baseball, ice hockey) as well as most football codes other than soccer.
championship: The playoffs (known in some countries, notably Australia, as the "finals series") are a tournament where teams play head-to-head in knockout competition.
championship: A competitor (called number 1 contender) can challenge the current champion after defeating other challengers.
championship: Examples include Formula 1 and the World Rally Championship.
championship: This is also known as a round robin system.
championship: This form of championship is used in individual head-to-head competitions and is particularly associated with combat sports such as wrestling, boxing and mixed martial arts.
championship: The playoff system can be seen as a hybrid between the league system and tournament system, where a league is used to determine qualifiers for the tournament.
