climate: Paleoclimatology is the study of past climate over a great period of the Earth's history.
climate: Examples of genetic classification include methods based on the relative frequency of different air mass types or locations within synoptic weather disturbances.
climate: While the term climate change now implies change that is both long-term and of human causation, in the 1960s the word climate change was used for what we now describe as climate variability, that is, climatic inconsistencies and anomalies.
climate: Alterations in the quantity of atmospheric greenhouse gases (particularly carbon dioxide and methane) determines the amount of solar energy retained by the planet, leading to global warming or global cooling.
climate: In 1982, the WMO agreed to update climate normals, and these were subsequently completed on the basis of climate data from 1 January 1961 to 31 December 1990.
climate: Scientists have identified Earth's Energy Imbalance (EEI) to be a fundamental metric of the status of global change.
climate: Other ocean currents redistribute heat between land and water on a more regional scale.
climate: An explanation" (Geografisk Tidsskrift, Band 48; 1946)
The Study of Climate on Alien Worlds; Characterizing atmospheres beyond our Solar System is now within our reach Kevin Heng July–August 2012 American Scientist
climate: These models predict an upward trend in the global mean surface temperature, with the most rapid increase in temperature being projected for the higher latitudes of the Northern Hemisphere.
climate: In some cases, current, historical and paleoclimatological natural oscillations may be masked by significant volcanic eruptions, impact events, irregularities in climate proxy data, positive feedback processes or anthropogenic emissions of substances such as greenhouse gases.
climate: More rigorously, it is the mean and variability of meteorological variables over a time spanning from months to millions of years.
climate: The density and type of vegetation coverage affects solar heat absorption, water retention, and rainfall on a regional level.
climate: Suggested causes of ice age periods include the positions of the continents, variations in the Earth's orbit, changes in the solar output, and volcanism.
climate: The Thornthwaite system, in use since 1948, incorporates evapotranspiration along with temperature and precipitation information and is used in studying biological diversity and how climate change affects it.
climate: Climate is the long-term weather pattern in a region, typically averaged over 30 years.
climate: The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2001 glossary definition is as follows:
climate: In some cases, the term is also used with a presumption of human causation, as in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
climate: Paleoclimatologists seek to explain climate variations for all parts of the Earth during any given geologic period, beginning with the time of the Earth's formation.
climate: There are close correlations between Earth's climate oscillations and astronomical factors (barycenter changes, solar variation, cosmic ray flux, cloud albedo feedback, Milankovic cycles), and modes of heat distribution between the ocean-atmosphere climate system.
climate: All climate models balance, or very nearly balance, incoming energy as short wave (including visible) electromagnetic radiation to the Earth with outgoing energy as long wave (infrared) electromagnetic radiation from the Earth.
climate: These quantities are most often surface variables such as temperature, precipitation, and wind.
climate: variations in sunlight intensity) or human activities, as found recently.
climate: Any imbalance results in a change in the average temperature of the Earth.
climate: Climate also includes statistics other than the average, such as the magnitudes of day-to-day or year-to-year variations.
climate: Examples are ICON or mechanistically downscaled data such as CHELSA (Climatologies at high resolution for the earth's land surface areas).
climate: At its 1934 Wiesbaden meeting, the technical commission designated the thirty-year period from 1901 to 1930 as the reference time frame for climatological standard normals.
climate: In a broader sense, climate is the state of the components of the climate system, including the atmosphere, hydrosphere, cryosphere, lithosphere and biosphere and the interactions between them.
climate: All of these variables change only over periods of millions of years due to processes such as plate tectonics.
climate: It reflects changes in the variability or average state of the atmosphere over time scales ranging from decades to millions of years.
climate: However, these naturally caused changes in climate occur on a much slower time scale than the present rate of change which is caused by the emission of greenhouse gases by human activities.
climate: Modern climate classification methods can be broadly divided into genetic methods, which focus on the causes of climate, and empiric methods, which focus on the effects of climate.
climate: These consist of glacial periods where conditions are colder than normal, separated by interglacial periods.
climate: The classical period is 30 years, as defined by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO).
climate: Globalclimatemonitor – Contains climatic information from 1901.
climate: The variables which determine climate are numerous and the interactions complex, but there is general agreement that the broad outlines are understood, at least insofar as the determinants of historical climate change are concerned.
climate: Models can range from relatively simple to quite complex.
climate: The accumulation of snow and ice during a glacial period increases the surface albedo, reflecting more of the Sun's energy into space and maintaining a lower atmospheric temperature.
climate: On the other hand, periodic variability occurs relatively regularly and in distinct modes of variability or climate patterns.
climate: For example, as climate scientist Lesley Ann Hughes has written: "a 3 °C [5 °F] change in mean annual temperature corresponds to a shift in isotherms of approximately 300–400 km [190–250 mi] in latitude (in the temperate zone) or 500 m [1,600 ft] in elevation.
climate: Such variability is called random variability or noise.
climate: ClimateCharts – Webapplication to generate climate charts for recent and historical data.
climate: A climate normal is defined as the arithmetic average of a climate element (e.g.
climate: Examples of empiric classifications include climate zones defined by plant hardiness, evapotranspiration, or more generally the Köppen climate classification which was originally designed to identify the climates associated with certain biomes.
climate: The UNFCCC uses "climate variability" for non-human caused variations.
climate: "Climate in a narrow sense is usually defined as the "average weather", or more rigorously, as the statistical description in terms of the mean and variability of relevant quantities over a period ranging from months to thousands or millions of years.
climate: According to the EU's Copernicus Climate Change Service, average global air temperature has passed 1.5C of warming the period from February 2023 to January 2024.
climate: Earth has undergone periodic climate shifts in the past, including four major ice ages.
climate: It demonstrates periods of stability and periods of change and can indicate whether changes follow patterns such as regular cycles.
climate: "Climate" .
climate: A climate classification may correlate closely with a biome classification, as climate is a major influence on life in a region.
climate: Simple radiant heat transfer models treat the Earth as a single point and average outgoing energy.
climate: Climate change may occur over long and short timescales due to various factors.
climate: These changes can be caused by processes internal to the Earth, external forces (e.g.
climate: Reumert, Johannes: "Vahls climatic divisions.
climate: A common shortcoming of these classification schemes is that they produce distinct boundaries between the zones they define, rather than the gradual transition of climate properties more common in nature.
climate: temperature) over a 30-year period.
climate: It uses evidence with different time scales (from decades to millennia) from ice sheets, tree rings, sediments, pollen, coral, and rocks to determine the past state of the climate.
climate: They include non-biotic evidence—such as sediments found in lake beds and ice cores—and biotic evidence—such as tree rings and coral.
climate: Climate models are mathematical models of past, present, and future climates.
climate: Climate change is the variation in global or regional climates over time.
climate: Since very few direct observations of climate were available before the 19th century, paleoclimates are inferred from proxy variables.
climate: Some of the meteorological variables that are commonly measured are temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind, and precipitation.
climate: The most widely used classification scheme is the Köppen climate classification.
climate: They are used for a variety of purposes, from the study of the dynamics of the weather and climate system to projections of future climate.
climate: Climate models are available on different resolutions ranging from >100 km to 1 km.
climate: The major classifications in Thornthwaite's climate classification are microthermal, mesothermal, and megathermal.
climate: The 1961–1990 climate normals serve as the baseline reference period.
climate: The climate of a location is affected by its latitude, longitude, terrain, altitude, land use and nearby water bodies and their currents.
climate: In recent usage, especially in the context of environmental policy, the term "climate change" often refers only to changes in modern climate, including the rise in average surface temperature known as global warming.
climate: One of the most used is the Köppen climate classification scheme first developed in 1899.
climate: The standard averaging period is 30 years, but other periods may be used depending on the purpose.
climate: HistoricalClimatology.com – Past, present and future climates – 2013.
climate: Increases in greenhouse gases, such as by volcanic activity, can increase the global temperature and produce an interglacial period.
climate: The next set of climate normals to be published by WMO is from 1991 to 2020.
climate: This can be expanded vertically (as in radiative-convective models), or horizontally.
climate: Paleoclimatology is the study of ancient climates.
climate: Originally, climes were defined in Ancient Greece to describe the weather depending upon a location's latitude.
climate: Encyclopædia Britannica.
climate: High resolutions in global climate models require significant computational resources, and so only a few global datasets exist.
climate: Recent warming is discussed in terms of global warming, which results in redistributions of biota.
climate: Finally, more complex (coupled) atmosphere–ocean–sea ice global climate models discretise and solve the full equations for mass and energy transfer and radiant exchange.
climate: Long-term modern climate records skew towards population centres and affluent countries.
climate: There are several ways to classify climates into similar regimes.
climate: Global climate models can be dynamically or statistically downscaled to regional climate models to analyze impacts of climate change on a local scale.
climate: Climates can be classified according to the average and typical variables, most commonly temperature and precipitation.
climate: International Disaster Database
Paris Climate Conference
Climate of countries, alphabetically, Geographic.org
climate: The most talked-about applications of these models in recent years have been their use to infer the consequences of increasing greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, primarily carbon dioxide (see greenhouse gas).
climate: Other climate determinants are more dynamic: the thermohaline circulation of the ocean leads to a 5 °C (9 °F) warming of the northern Atlantic Ocean compared to other ocean basins.
climate: Climate classifications are systems that categorize the world's climates.
climate: Over the years, the definitions of climate variability and the related term climate change have shifted.
climate: VI (9th ed.).
climate: Since the 1960s, the launch of satellites allow records to be gathered on a global scale, including areas with little to no human presence, such as the Arctic region and oceans.
climate: Finally, the Bergeron and Spatial Synoptic Classification systems focus on the origin of air masses that define the climate of a region.
climate: Therefore, species are expected to move upwards in elevation or towards the poles in latitude in response to shifting climate zones."
climate: The instruments used to study weather over the modern time scale, their observation frequency, their known error, their immediate environment, and their exposure have changed over the years, which must be considered when studying the climate of centuries past.
climate: Details of the modern climate record are known through the taking of measurements from such weather instruments as thermometers, barometers, and anemometers during the past few centuries.
