colonialism: During the centuries of pre-colonial trade, some control over social political and economic life was retained in Africa, in spite of the disadvantageous commerce with Europeans.
colonialism: Territorialist Ideology and the Zionist Movement, 1882–1956".
colonialism: Foreign aid arrived in the form of loans, land, credit, and tools to speed up development, but were only allocated to men.
colonialism: ISBN 978-0-230-30628-8.
colonialism: The European colonization of Africa and Asia was largely conducted under the auspices of exploitation colonialism.
colonialism: Colonialism: An International Social, Cultural, and Political Encyclopedia (3 vol 2003)
Petringa, Maria, Brazza, A Life for Africa (2006), ISBN 978-1-4259-1198-0.
colonialism: Between 1830 and 1930, around 30 million indentured servants migrated from India, and 24 million returned to India.
colonialism: Scandinavian Journal of History.
colonialism: Fox Bourne, Edward Morel, Josephine Butler, W.J.
colonialism: In some cases, this was a movement of settlers of European origin returning to the land of their birth, or to an ancestral birthplace.
colonialism: Japan temporarily took control of European controlled colonies in Southeast Asia in order to overcome the sanctions placed on it that disrupted access to the resources of said colonies.
colonialism: Following the Scramble for Africa, an early but secondary focus for most colonial regimes was the suppression of slavery and the slave trade.
colonialism: The stated purpose from the beginning was to compensate for the lack of resources on the main islands of Japan by securing control over natural resources in Asia for its own economic development and industrialization, not unlike its European counterparts.
colonialism: A significant number of these migrants were also of Algerian descent.
colonialism: The Empire of Brazil fought for hegemony in South America.
colonialism: While the extent in which geography as an academic study is implicated in colonialism is contentious, geographical tools such as cartography, shipbuilding, navigation, mining and agricultural productivity were instrumental in European colonial expansion.
colonialism: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
colonialism: Hitler repeatedly drew parallels between the colonization plan and Manifest Destiny in the United States.
colonialism: Waldemar Haffkine, who mainly worked in India, who developed and used vaccines against cholera and bubonic plague in the 1890s, is considered the first microbiologist.
colonialism: Despite the colonial suppression and narrative, colonised people may be able to build on their agency, potentially having influence on the imperial country or even challenging it.
colonialism: Anne Godlewska and Neil Smith argue that "empire was 'quintessentially a geographical project'".
colonialism: Colonial tariff policies (1922), worldwide; 922pp survey online
Wendt, Reinhard: European Overseas Rule, European History Online, Mainz: Institute of European History, 2011, retrieved: 13 June 2012.
colonialism: Apart from the British Empire, they did not provide favoured destinations for the immigration of surplus metropole populations.
colonialism: Studies in Settler Colonialism: Politics, Identity and Culture.
colonialism: According to Julian Go, "Colonialism refers to the direct political control of a society and its people by a foreign ruling state...
colonialism: Any anticolonial opposition from colonized subjects, non-violent or otherwise, was met with brutal violence.
colonialism: and Heather Streets-Salter, eds.: Modern Imperialism and Colonialism: A Global Perspective (Pearson College Div: 2010)
Jensen, Niklas Thode; Simonsen, Gunvor (2016).
colonialism: The Spanish Empire held a major advantage over Mesoamerican warriors through the use of weapons made of stronger metal, predominantly iron, which was able to shatter the blades of axes used by the Aztec civilisation and others.
colonialism: The goal is to integrate them into the state, but only as reflections of the state's preferred culture.
colonialism: Japan defeated China in the First Sino-Japanese War to control Korea and the island of Formosa, now Taiwan, and later fought off the Russian Empire to control Port Arthur and South Sakhalin.
colonialism: When one society finds itself forced to relinquish power entirely to another society that in itself is a form of underdevelopment ...
colonialism: In the Dutch East Indies (later Indonesia) the vast majority of "Dutch" settlers were in fact Eurasians known as Indo-Europeans, formally belonging to the European legal class in the colony.
colonialism: Within the former European colonies, non-Europeans and women sometimes faced invasive studies by the colonial powers in the interest of the then prevailing pro-colonial scientific ideology of the day.
colonialism: Murphy, Emma C.
colonialism: Japan seized Manchuria from China where it set up the puppet state of Manchukuo and both exploited natural resources for mainland industrialization and enacted a program of settler colonialism with the stated goal being the import of five million Japanese settlers.
colonialism: When colonists settled in pre-populated areas, the societies and cultures of the people in those areas permanently changed.
colonialism: While men would make political and communal decisions for a community, the women would control the village's food supply or their individual family's land.
colonialism: The Easter Rising and Irish War of Independence led to the UK conceding independence to Ireland.
colonialism: The term became popular in ex-colonies in the late 20th century.
colonialism: In many ways conditions for colonized peoples also deteriorated.
colonialism: Political institutions thus gave rise to different types of economic systems, which determined the colonial economic performance.
colonialism: Anticolonial resistance movements gained power and followers through a mix of legal and illegal methods
However despite the rise in anticolonial sentiment, colonial powers still retained and expanded their grip on colonial territories.
colonialism: The employees became "indentured" to the employer because they owed a debt back to the employer for their travel expense to the colony, which they were expected to pay through their wages.
colonialism: As late as 1848–49, as many as 40,000 out of 150,000 Hawaiians are estimated to have died of measles, whooping cough and influenza.
colonialism: In some cases, the former European imperial nations continue to foster close political and economic ties with former colonies.
colonialism: Usually also included within the colonial belief systems was a certain belief in the inherent superiority of male over female.
colonialism: The Japanese colonial empire began in the mid-19th century with the settler colonization of Hokkaido and the destruction of the island's indigenous Ainu people before moving onto the Ryukyu Islands (the indigenous Ryukyuan people survived colonization more intact).
colonialism: "Settlement in Eretz Israel – A Colonialist Enterprise?
colonialism: In 1960, the UN issued the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, which affirmed its stance (though notably, colonial empires such as France, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United States abstained).
colonialism: Popular political practices of the time reinforced colonial rule by legitimising European (and/ or Japanese) male authority, and also legitimising female and non-mother-country race inferiority through studies of craniology, comparative anatomy, and phrenology.
colonialism: Collins, John (2011).
colonialism: While different forms of colonialism have existed around the world, the concept has been developed as a description of European colonial empires of the modern era.
colonialism: Marx thought that working within the global capitalist system, colonialism is closely associated with uneven development.
colonialism: In this sense, one can regard post-colonial literature as a branch of postmodern literature concerned with the political and cultural independence of peoples formerly subjugated in colonial empires.
colonialism: During colonialism map-makers used rhetoric in their formation of boundaries and in their art.
colonialism: The imbalance of power that results from a colonial relationship allows a colonial metropole to exploit unequal trading terms between it and its colonies.
colonialism: By the end of the colonial period they were mostly successful in this aim, though slavery persists in Africa and in the world at large with much the same practices of de facto servility despite legislative prohibition.
colonialism: Colonialism is a relationship between an indigenous (or forcibly imported) majority and a minority of foreign invaders.
colonialism: The tumultuous upheaval of the war significantly weakened the major colonial powers, and they quickly lost control of colonies such as Singapore, India, and Libya.
colonialism: Defining colonialism became necessary for the international anti-colonial movement, and it was discussed in the 1955 Bandung Conference and the contexts it applied to disputed.
colonialism: It implies the ability to defend one's interests and if necessary to impose one's will by any means available ...
colonialism: He states it is, "connected with the intensification of the struggle for the partition of the world".
colonialism: Vasco de Gama and Christopher Columbus were seeking to establish routes to trade spices, dyes and silk from the Moluccas, India and China by sea that would be independent of the established routes controlled by Venetian and Middle Eastern merchants.
colonialism: While colonies of contiguous empires have been historically excluded, they can be seen as colonies.
colonialism: Cultural colonialism gave rise to culturally and ethnically mixed populations such as the mestizos of the Americas, as well as racially divided populations such as those found in French Algeria or in Southern Rhodesia.
colonialism: Colonialism was in some cases justified with beliefs of having a civilizing mission to cultivate land and life, historically often rooted in the belief of a Christian mission.
colonialism: The Soviet Union despite branding itself as anti-imperialist and providing real material assistance to anticolonial resistance returned to its previous colonial "Russification" policies after 1930.
colonialism: This influenced the colonial powers as it sparked competition amongst them to explore and colonise these regions.
colonialism: These events also caused much bloodshed at the time of the migration of immigrants from the two countries.
colonialism: Prior to the war, Italy expanded its colonial settlement program in Libya.
colonialism: According to the UN, the world population has grown from 1.6 billion in 1900 to over eight billion today.
colonialism: The sleeping sickness epidemic in Africa was arrested due to mobile teams systematically screening millions of people at risk.
colonialism: The use of gunpowder weapons cemented the European military advantage over the peoples they sought to subjugate in the Americas and elsewhere.
colonialism: A Companion to the History of the Middle East.
colonialism: This form of colonialism aims largely to supplant prior existing populations with a settler one, and involves large number of settlers emigrating to colonies for the purpose of establishing settlements.
colonialism: Conversely, researchers have hypothesised that a precursor to syphilis may have been carried from the New World to Europe after Columbus's voyages.
colonialism: Smallpox decimated the native population of Australia, killing around 50% of indigenous Australians in the early years of British colonisation.
colonialism: Rather than annexation, this typically culminates in organizing the colonized into colonies separate to the colonizers' metropole.
colonialism: In the 17th century, nearly two-thirds of English settlers came to North America as indentured servants.
colonialism: Phoenicia had an enterprising maritime trading-culture that spread across the Mediterranean from 1550 BC to 300 BC; later the Persian Empire and various Greek city-states continued on this line of setting up colonies.
colonialism: "Colonialism".
colonialism: Jabotinsky, Ze'ev (4 November 1923).
colonialism: In the late 19th century, many European powers became involved in the Scramble for Africa.
colonialism: Contemporary expansion of colonies is seen by some in case of Russian imperialism and Chinese imperialism.
colonialism: The Third Socialist International settled the question of colonialism and the decision was made to instruct socialists to ally with anticolonial nationalist forces in the colonized world regardless of their position on Marxism.
colonialism: Those were undoubtedly major steps backwards ...
colonialism: Biologists, naturalists, anthropologists, and ethnologists of the 19th century were focused on the study of colonised indigenous women, as in the case of Georges Cuvier's study of Sarah Baartman.
colonialism: Though Sweden did not possess an extensive colonial network, botanical research based on Carl Linnaeus identified and developed techniques to grow cinnamon, tea and rice locally as an alternative to costly imports.
colonialism: A third of British people (34%) also say they would like it if Britain still had an empire.
colonialism: 1950–2016".
colonialism: Photographies et écrits de Gaston Chérau, correspondant de guerre lors du conflit italo-turc pour la Libye (1911–1912), Créaphis, 480 p., 2018 (ISBN 978-2-35428-141-0).
colonialism: doi:10.1002/9780470996423.ch15.
colonialism: The populations of some colonial territories, such as Canada, enjoyed relative peace and prosperity as part of a European power, at least among the majority.
colonialism: Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit (1807), famous for its explicit ethnocentrism, considers Western civilisation as the most accomplished of all, while Kant also had some traces of racialism in his work.
colonialism: Geographers are primarily focused on the spaces of colonialism and imperialism; more specifically, the material and symbolic appropriation of space enabling colonialism.
colonialism: The first Pan-African Congress would take place in Paris in 1919.
colonialism: National colonialism is a process involving elements of both settler and internal colonialism, in which nation-building and colonization are symbiotically connected, with the colonial regime seeking to remake the colonized peoples into their own cultural and political image.
colonialism: In 1618–1619, smallpox wiped out 90% of the Massachusetts Bay Native Americans.
colonialism: Under Philip II of Macedon, they were able to organise thousands of soldiers into a formidable battle force, bringing together carefully trained infantry and cavalry regiments.
colonialism: OCLC 429049174.
colonialism: From an African view-point, that amounted to consistent expatriation of surplus produced by African labour out of African resources.
colonialism: "Introduction: The historiography of slavery in the Danish-Norwegian West Indies, c.
colonialism: The impacts of colonisation are immense and pervasive.
colonialism: The rhetoric favoured the view of the conquering Europeans; this is evident in the fact that any map created by a non-European was instantly regarded as inaccurate.
colonialism: Colonialism sometimes deepens by developing settler colonialism, whereby settlers from one or multiple colonizing metropoles occupy a territory with the intention of partially or completely supplanting the existing Indigenous peoples, possibly amounting to genocide.
colonialism: The empires of Russia and Austria collapsed in 1917–1918, and the Soviet empire emerged.
colonialism: Through the rise of European colonialism came a large push for development and industrialisation of most economic systems.
colonialism: Uzoigwe states, "But it is now clear from more serious investigations of African history in this period that imperialism was essentially economic in its fundamental impulses."
colonialism: Townsend, Mary Evelyn.
colonialism: Rejecting cultural compromises with the colonised population, the colonisers are convinced of their own superiority and their ordained mandate to rule.
colonialism: Maps played an extensive role in colonialism, as Bassett would put it "by providing geographical information in a convenient and standardised format, cartographers helped open West Africa to European conquest, commerce, and colonisation".
colonialism: ISBN 978-0-804-78802-1.
colonialism: After WWII 300,000 Dutchmen from the Dutch East Indies, of which the majority were people of Eurasian descent called Indo Europeans, repatriated to the Netherlands.
colonialism: Awaken the archive of a colonial war.
colonialism: Often though this has been met with cultural appropriation and forced assimilation.
colonialism: doi:10.2979/jewisocistud.18.1.1.
colonialism: In A Dictionary of Human Geography colonialism is described as control over another people accompanied by an ideology of superiority and racism.
colonialism: The earliest uses of colonialism referred to plantations that men emigrated to and settled.
colonialism: In 1875, measles killed over 40,000 Fijians, approximately one-third of the population.
colonialism: It also saw the establishment of Danish overseas colonies and Swedish overseas colonies.
colonialism: This particular belief was often pre-existing amongst the pre-colonial societies, prior to their colonisation.
colonialism: In many pre-colonialist areas, women maintained power, prestige, or authority through reproductive or agricultural control.
colonialism: Robinson compare the economic influences of the European colonists on different colonies and study what could explain the huge discrepancies in previous European colonies, for example, between West African colonies like Sierra Leone and Hong Kong and Singapore.
colonialism: For the Aztecs, a significant tribute was the acquisition of sacrificial victims for their religious rituals.
colonialism: The territorial boundaries imposed by European colonisers, notably in central Africa and South Asia, defied the existing boundaries of native populations that had previously interacted little with one another.
colonialism: Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak's Can the Subaltern Speak?
colonialism: Indiana University Press: 214–229.
colonialism: Francophone residents of Quebec, for example, were vocal in opposing conscription into the armed services to fight on behalf of Britain during World War I, resulting in the Conscription crisis of 1917.
colonialism: Yadgar, Yaacov (2017).
colonialism: Half the native population of Hispaniola in 1518 was killed by smallpox.
colonialism: Phoenicians, Greeks, and Romans founded colonies in antiquity.
colonialism: Wiener, 1997.
colonialism: Italy also invaded and occupied Ethiopia in 1935 where it enacted a system of segregation between Italian colonists and indigenous Ethiopians.
colonialism: Colonialism went much further than trade.
colonialism: Western Power in Asia: Its Slow Rise and Swift Fall, 1415–1999 (Wiley: 2009) popular history; excerpt
Getz, Trevor R.
colonialism: In the 20th century, the world saw the biggest increase in its population in human history due to lessening of the mortality rate in many countries due to medical advances.
colonialism: During and after the rise of colonialism the Western powers perceived the East as the "other", being different and separate from their societal norm.
colonialism: The 2014 YouGov survey found that British people are mostly proud of colonialism and the British Empire:
colonialism: John Wiley & Sons.
colonialism: ISBN 978-1-4384-6535-7.
colonialism: In the 9th century a new wave of Mediterranean colonisation began, with competitors such as the Venetians, Genovese and Amalfians infiltrating the wealthy previously Byzantine or Eastern Roman islands and lands.
colonialism: After the Meiji Restoration, Japan more formally developed its colonial policies with the help of European advisors.
colonialism: The authors attributed the decrease to diseases, such as malaria and sleeping sickness, forced labor during the early decades of colonial rule, conflicts, land grabbing, and widespread cattle deaths from the rinderpest viral disease.
colonialism: Israel Studies.
colonialism: British colonising activity in New Zealand from the early 19th century played a part in ending slave-taking and slave-keeping among the indigenous Māori.
colonialism: Aztec civilisation developed into an extensive empire that had the goal of exacting tribute from the conquered colonial areas.
colonialism: Archived from the original on 21 December 2013.
colonialism: Page, Melvin E.
colonialism: As a continuation of this thought, G.N.
colonialism: The European colonial system took approximately 11 million Africans to the Caribbean and to North and South America as slaves.
colonialism: The concept entered the forefront of academia in the late 20th century, followed by the development of postcolonialism.
colonialism: A first wave of separatism started with the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783), initiating the Rise of the "Second" British Empire (1783–1815).
colonialism: In comparison, about two-thirds (65%) of over 60s feel mostly proud.
colonialism: European colonialism employed mercantilism and chartered companies, and established complex colonialities.
colonialism: ISBN 978-0544602670.
colonialism: There was, though, some Russian colonization of North America across the Bering Strait.
colonialism: ISBN 978-90-04-20379-2.
colonialism: 20% don't know.
colonialism: A new YouGov survey finds that most think the British Empire is more something to be proud of (59%) than to be ashamed of (19%).
colonialism: Colonialism has a persistent impact on a wide range of modern outcomes, as scholars have shown that variations in colonial institutions can account for variations in economic development, regime types, and state capacity.
colonialism: Within a colony, the presence of extractive colonial institutions in a given area has been found have effects on the modern day economic development, institutions and infrastructure of these areas.
colonialism: In a reversal of the migration patterns experienced during the modern colonial era, post-independence era migration followed a route back towards the imperial country.
colonialism: Alexander the Great exploited this military foundation further during his conquests.
colonialism: 30 (2): 115–139.
colonialism: Both colonialism and imperialism were forms of conquest that were expected to benefit Europe economically and strategically".
colonialism: This allowed women to achieve power and autonomy, even in patrilineal and patriarchal societies.
colonialism: The British, French, and Dutch joined in the slave trade in subsequent centuries.
colonialism: Exploitation of non-Europeans and of other Europeans to support imperial goals was acceptable to the colonisers.
colonialism: Modern studies of colonialism distinguish between various overlapping categories of colonialism, broadly classified into four types: settler colonialism, exploitation colonialism, surrogate colonialism, and internal colonialism.
colonialism: Sovereign Jews.
colonialism: For example, rights to dual citizenship may be generous, or larger immigrant quotas may be extended to former colonies.
colonialism: hdl:109.1.5/469ed487-ad15-4504-a969-8eb9a0ea0d17.
colonialism: Some historians have identified other forms of colonialism, including national and trade forms.
colonialism: Lenin regarded colonialism as the root cause of imperialism, as imperialism was distinguished by monopoly capitalism via colonialism and as Lyal S.
colonialism: Political geographers also maintain that colonial behaviour was reinforced by the physical mapping of the world, therefore creating a visual separation between "them" and "us".
colonialism: Alroey, Gur (Fall 2011).
colonialism: Prashad, Vijay: The Darker Nations: A People's History of the Third World, The New Press, 2007.
colonialism: European slave traders brought large numbers of African slaves to the Americas by sail.
colonialism: With respect to international borders, Britain and France traced close to 40% of the entire length of the world's international boundaries.
colonialism: Retrieved 19 July 2025.
colonialism: War mobilization heightened colonial exploitation globally, sparking several anticolonial uprisings in response to forced conscription.
colonialism: Because the relationship between colonialism and geography was not scientifically objective, cartography was often manipulated during the colonial era.
colonialism: Post-colonialism (or post-colonial theory) can refer to a set of theories in philosophy and literature that grapple with the legacy of colonial rule.
colonialism: Colonisers' awareness of the Earth's surface and abundance of practical skills provided colonisers with a knowledge that, in turn, created power.
colonialism: European colonial expansion since 1871 (1941).
colonialism: Decolonization, which started in the 18th century, gradually led to the independence of colonies in waves, with a particular large wave of decolonizations happening in the aftermath of World War II between 1945 and 1975.
colonialism: The Taiwan under the Kuomintang's military dictatorship is the archetypal example of a national-colonialist society.
colonialism: In a more European fashion, women were expected to serve on a more domestic level.
colonialism: The plan was lauded as a 'solution' to secure Germany's food supply for the duration of the war unlike in World War I and to end Germany's dependence on food imports to feed its large population.
colonialism: The Ainu population decreased drastically in the 19th century, due in large part
to infectious diseases brought by Japanese settlers pouring into Hokkaido.
colonialism: Their philosophies found the colonial enterprise, particularly mercantilism, in opposition to the principles of free trade and liberal policies.
colonialism: Stuchtey, Benedikt: Colonialism and Imperialism, 1450–1950, European History Online, Mainz: Institute of European History, 2011, retrieved: 13 July 2011.
colonialism: A similar organisation exists for former colonies of France, the Francophonie; the Community of Portuguese Language Countries plays a similar role for former Portuguese colonies, and the Dutch Language Union is the equivalent for former colonies of the Netherlands.
colonialism: Asking whether colonies paid, economic historian Grover Clark (1891–1938) argues an emphatic "No!" He reports that in every case the support cost, especially the military system necessary to support and defend colonies, outran the total trade they produced.
colonialism: The word "neocolonialism" originated from Jean-Paul Sartre in 1956, to refer to a variety of contexts since the decolonisation that took place after World War II.
colonialism: India and China were the largest source of indentured servants during the colonial era.
colonialism: Colonialism was not merely a system of exploitation, but one whose essential purpose was to repatriate the profits to the so-called 'mother country'.
colonialism: These spread globally from the 15th century to the mid-20th century, spanning 35% of Earth's land by 1800 and peaking at 84% by the beginning of World War I.
colonialism: This is demonstrated in the way control and exploitation may pass from people from the colonizing country to an immigrant population within a newly independent country.
colonialism: Jewish Social Studies.
colonialism: To explain the different colonial cases, we thus need to look first into the political institutions that shaped the economic institutions.
colonialism: Zionist settler colonization of Palestine continued expansion, now with the backing of the British empire after issuing the Balfour Declaration in 1917 and establishing the British Mandate for Palestine at the League of Nations.
colonialism: Writers of post-colonial fiction interact with the traditional colonial discourse, but modify or subvert it; for instance by retelling a familiar story from the perspective of an oppressed minor character in the story.
colonialism: Bloom, Etan (2011).
colonialism: Trade colonialism involves the undertaking of colonialist ventures in support of trade opportunities for merchants.
colonialism: The Soviet Union positioned itself as "an explicitly anti-imperialist power" and would play an important role in the success of anticolonial resistance movements in Asia and Africa.
colonialism: In addition, the United Nations shows support for decolonisation in its 1945 charter.
colonialism: Notable examples of these plants included sugar, nutmeg, tobacco, cloves, cinnamon, Peruvian bark, peppers, Sassafras albidum, and tea.
colonialism: In practice, indentured servants were exploited through terrible working conditions and burdensome debts imposed by the employers, with whom the servants had no means of negotiating the debt once they arrived in the colony.
colonialism: Zionism is considered a modern colonialist movement, although it began in the 20th century.
colonialism: Citizen Strangers: Palestinians and the Birth of Israel's Liberal Settler State.
colonialism: LeCour Grandmaison, Olivier: Coloniser, Exterminer – Sur la guerre et l'Etat colonial, Fayard, 2005, ISBN 2-213-62316-3
Lindqvist, Sven: Exterminate All The Brutes, 1992, New Press; Reprint edition (June 1997), ISBN 978-1-56584-359-2
Morris, Richard B.
colonialism: Osterhammel, Jürgen: Colonialism: A Theoretical Overview, Princeton, NJ: M.
colonialism: The Romans would soon follow, setting up coloniae throughout the Mediterranean, in North Africa, and in Western Asia.
colonialism: ISBN 978-0-470-99642-3.
colonialism: Historical geographical theories such as environmental determinism legitimised colonialism by positing the view that some parts of the world were underdeveloped, which created notions of skewed evolution.
colonialism: Fox and William Ewart Gladstone.
colonialism: doi:10.1515/9781438465357-008.
colonialism: Conquering forces have throughout history applied innovation in order to gain an advantage over the armies of the people they aim to conquer.
colonialism: According to the paper, economic institutions are the determinant of the colonial success because they determine their financial performance and order for the distribution of resources.
colonialism: It meant a tendency towards direct appropriation by Europeans of the social institutions within Africa.
colonialism: In "Institutions as a Fundamental Cause of Long-run Growth", economists Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson and James A.
colonialism: Turkey became an independent country in the ruins of the Ottoman Empire and fought off interventions from Britain, France, and Italy.
colonialism: Arthur Ruppin and the Production of Pre-Israeli Culture.
colonialism: Encyclopedia of Western Colonialism Since 1450 (Cengage Gale: 2006)
Cooper, Frederick.
colonialism: The Crown of Castile encountered the Americas in 1492 through sea travel and built trading posts or conquered large extents of land.
colonialism: One explanation offered by the paper focuses on the political institutions of the various colonies: it was less likely for European colonists to introduce economic institutions where they could benefit quickly from the extraction of resources in the area.
colonialism: Other European colonies had much more pronounced conflict between European settlers and the local population.
colonialism: For example, European colonizers in the United States implemented the residential schools program to force native children to assimilate into the hegemonic culture.
colonialism: Indentured servants consented to a contract with the European colonisers.
colonialism: China sent more indentured servants to European colonies, and around the same proportion returned to China.
colonialism: Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
colonialism: Geography as a discipline was not and is not an objective science, Painter and Jeffrey argue, rather it is based on assumptions about the physical world.
colonialism: Colonial practices also spur the spread of conquerors' languages, literature and cultural institutions, while endangering or obliterating those of indigenous peoples, possibly amounting to genocide.
colonialism: London: Palgrave Macmillan UK.
colonialism: doi:10.1080/13531042.2011.610119.
colonialism: Native populations were often relocated at the will of the colonial administrators.
colonialism: Adam Smith wrote in The Wealth of Nations that Britain should grant independence to all of its colonies and also argued that it would be economically beneficial for British people in the average, although the merchants having mercantilist privileges would lose out.
colonialism: This viewpoint and separation of culture had divided the Eastern and Western culture creating a dominant/subordinate dynamic, both being the "other" towards themselves.
colonialism: European Crusaders set up colonial regimes in Outremer (in the Levant, 1097–1291) and in the Baltic littoral (12th century onwards).
colonialism: It meant the development of Europe as part of the same dialectical process in which Africa was underdeveloped.
colonialism: For example, smallpox, measles, malaria, yellow fever, and others were unknown in pre-Columbian America.
colonialism: The first cholera pandemic began in Bengal, then spread across India by 1820.
colonialism: By 1832, the federal government of the United States established a smallpox vaccination program for Native Americans.
colonialism: "Zionism and the Palestine Question".
colonialism: London: Penguin Book, 2001
Las Casas, Bartolomé de, A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies (1542, published in 1552).
colonialism: Venice began to dominate Dalmatia and reached its greatest nominal colonial extent at the conclusion of the Fourth Crusade in 1204, with the declaration of the acquisition of three octaves of the Byzantine Empire.
colonialism: Just under two decades later the new state would legally codify segregation in the Apartheid legislation.
colonialism: Colonial studies have been criticized for Eurocentrism in determining the threshold between colonialism versus conquest.
colonialism: French-controlled Algeria, Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), Italian-controlled Libya, the Kenya Colony, Japanese-controlled Korea and Manchuria, and most infamously Nazi-occupied Eastern Europe are examples of past or failed attempts to establish settler colonies.
colonialism: The labour shortages that resulted from abolition inspired European colonisers in Queensland, British Guaiana and Fiji (for example) to develop new sources of labour, re-adopting a system of indentured servitude.
colonialism: The Commonwealth of Nations is an organisation that promotes cooperation between and among Britain and its former colonies, the Commonwealth members.
colonialism: Retrieved 17 April 2024.
colonialism: This definition is cited and complemented by the International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, clarifying that the rule of colonialism is different to annexation as it does not involve actual incorporation.
colonialism: Colonial practices directly and indirectly forced the colonized peoples to abandon their traditional cultures and established complex systems of power, so-called colonialities.
colonialism: Studies on life expectancy, human nutrition, and literacy showed the effect of colonialism on living standards was mixed with in many cases initial declines followed by improvements.
colonialism: Cohen, Michael J.
colonialism: Abolitionists in Europe and Americas protested the inhumane treatment of African slaves, which led to the elimination of the slave trade (and later, of most forms of slavery) by the late 19th century.
colonialism: With contributions from art historian Caroline Recher, critic Smaranda Olcèse, writer Mathieu Larnaudie and historian Quentin Deluermoz.
colonialism: The disease was more frequently fatal than it is today; syphilis was a major killer in Europe during the Renaissance.
colonialism: When working to improve productivity, Europeans focused mostly on male workers.
colonialism: Examples of this include the Opium Wars and the opening of Japan.
colonialism: For example, postcolonial scholars, believed that colonising powers explained an "other" who were there to dominate, civilise, and extract resources through colonisation of land.
colonialism: Colonialism is the practice of extending and maintaining political, social, economic, and cultural domination over a territory and its people by another people in pursuit of interests defined in an often distant metropole, who also claim superiority.
colonialism: Under the direction of Mountstuart Elphinstone a program was launched to propagate smallpox vaccination in India.
colonialism: Collins English Dictionary defines colonialism as "the practice by which a powerful country directly controls less powerful countries and uses their resources to increase its own power and wealth".
colonialism: Power is the ultimate determinant in human society, being basic to the relations within any group and between groups.
colonialism: In A Critique of Postcolonial Reason (1999), Spivak argued that major works of European metaphysics (such as those of Kant and Hegel) not only tend to exclude the subaltern from their discussions, but actively prevent non-Europeans from occupying positions as fully human subjects.
colonialism: The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Imperialism and Anti-Imperialism (2 vol 2015), 1456 pp
Nuzzo, Luigi: Colonial Law, European History Online, Mainz: Institute of European History, 2010, retrieved: 17 December 2012.
colonialism: Between 1736 and 1834 only some 10% of East India Company's officers survived to take the final voyage home.
colonialism: The question of whether colonies paid is a complicated one when recognizing the multiplicity of interests involved.
colonialism: "Critical" Scholarship and Historical Geography".
colonialism: The 17th century saw the birth of the Dutch Empire and French colonial empire, as well as the English overseas possessions, which later became the British Empire.
colonialism: Surrogate colonialism involves a settlement project supported by a colonial power, in which most of the settlers do not come from the same ethnic group as the ruling power, as it has been (controversially) argued was the case of Mandatory Palestine and the Colony of Liberia.
colonialism: Some believe that the death of up to 95% of the Native American population of the New World was caused by Old World diseases.
colonialism: Colonialism is etymologically derived from the Latin term colonia, originally a designation for a type of city or outpost that was founded and populated by newly settled Roman citizens at the direction of the Roman government.
colonialism: JSTOR 10.2979/jewisocistud.18.1.1.
colonialism: 900,000 French colonists (known as the Pied-Noirs) resettled in France following Algeria's independence in 1962.
colonialism: Colonialism in Question: Theory, Knowledge, History (University of California Press: 2005)
Cotterell, Arthur.
colonialism: War is stated to be the consequence of imperialism.
colonialism: The Return on British Investments in Africa 1869–1969 (Palgrave Studies in Economic History)
Schill, Pierre: Réveiller l'archive d'une guerre coloniale.
colonialism: According to Strabo, by the time of emperor Augustus, up to 120 Roman ships would set sail every year from Myos Hormos in Roman Egypt to India.
colonialism: In some cases colonial powers paid a lot in military costs while private investors pocketed the benefits.
colonialism: internal colonialism) as a "a process by which [...] dominance is acquired and held by a foreign power over another people and land".
colonialism: Webster's Encyclopedic Dictionary defined colonialism as "the policy of a nation seeking to extend or retain its authority over other people or territories".
colonialism: Generally it does not refer to a type of direct colonisation – rather to colonialism or colonial-style exploitation by other means.
colonialism: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Kashmir, Israel, New Zealand, Northern Ireland, Russia, South Africa, the United States, and Uruguay, are examples of nations created or expanded in their contemporary form by settler colonialism.
colonialism: 41 (4–5): 475–494.
colonialism: Such cases embraced a natural superiority and inferiority relationship between the races based on the observations of naturalists' from the mother-countries.
colonialism: Cultural and religious conflict have often erupted in France in recent decades, between immigrants from the Maghreb countries of north Africa and the majority population of France.
colonialism: At the same time, these institutions are also consequences of political institutions – especially how de facto and de jure political power is allocated.
colonialism: In his critique of colonialism in Africa, the Guyanese historian and political activist Walter Rodney states:The decisiveness of the short period of colonialism and its negative consequences for Africa spring mainly from the fact that Africa lost power.
colonialism: It has been categorized by some scholars as a settler colonialist movement.
colonialism: Harley put it, "The steps in making a map – selection, omission, simplification, classification, the creation of hierarchies, and 'symbolisation' – are all inherently rhetorical."
A common practice by the European cartographers of the time was to map unexplored areas as "blank spaces".
colonialism: and Graham W.
colonialism: Wendell Bell in The Encyclopedic Dictionary of Sociology describes colonialism (incl.
colonialism: 800,000 people of Portuguese origin migrated to Portugal after the independence of former colonies in Africa between 1974 and 1979; 300,000 settlers of Dutch origin migrated to the Netherlands from the Dutch West Indies after Dutch military control of the colony ended.
colonialism: (2019) Capital and Colonialism.
colonialism: Ten thousand British troops and countless Indians died during this pandemic.
colonialism: Naturalists like Hendrik van Rheede, Georg Eberhard Rumphius, and Jacobus Bontius compiled data about eastern plants on behalf of the Europeans.
colonialism: 23% don't know.
colonialism: Political geographers explain how colonial/imperial powers "othered" places they wanted to dominate to legalise their exploitation of the land.
colonialism: This finding of relative cranial size difference was later attributed to the general typical size difference of the human male body versus that of the typical human female body.
colonialism: Translated by Constance Farrington.
colonialism: "Zionism and British imperialism II: Imperial financing in Palestine".
colonialism: Minority populations such as First Nations peoples and French-Canadians experienced marginalisation and resented colonial practices.
colonialism: & Broberg, O.
colonialism: Outside Europe, few areas had remained without coming under formal colonial tutorship – and even Siam, China, Japan, Nepal, Afghanistan, Persia, and Abyssinia had felt varying degrees of Western colonial-style influence – concessions, unequal treaties, extraterritoriality and the like.
colonialism: David Livingstone stresses "that geography has meant different things at different times and in different places" and that we should keep an open mind in regards to the relationship between geography and colonialism instead of identifying boundaries.
colonialism: Tariff Commission.
colonialism: Introduced diseases, notably smallpox, nearly wiped out the native population of Easter Island.
colonialism: The domestic domains of the colonial powers had a total population of about 370 million people.
colonialism: Smallpox epidemics in 1780–1782 and 1837–1838 brought devastation and drastic depopulation among the Plains Indians.
colonialism: Germany capitulated in large part due to the Allied sea blockade cutting off access to its overseas colonies, a disadvantage which German U-boats could not inflict on the Allies.
colonialism: Rönnbäck, K.
colonialism: Internal colonialism is a notion of uneven structural power between areas of a state.
colonialism: The Treaty of Tordesillas divided the areas of these "new" lands between the Spanish Empire and the Portuguese Empire in 1494.
colonialism: In Bateman, Fiona (ed.).
colonialism: Africans ceased to set indigenous cultural goals and standards, and lost full command of training young members of the society.
colonialism: Colonial powers having refined their methods of control over the era began to mix aspects of exploitation colonialism and settler colonialism, thus exacerbating colonial violence.
colonialism: The Spanish Empire largely collapsed in the Americas with the Spanish American wars of independence (1808–1833).
colonialism: Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 May 2024.
colonialism: As free trade thrives on exports of commodities, monopoly capitalism thrived on the export of capital amassed by profits from banks and industry.
colonialism: Furthermore, European cartographers were required to follow a set of rules which led to ethnocentrism; portraying one's own ethnicity in the centre of the map.
colonialism: Othering is the creation of those who discriminate, to distinguish, label, categorise those who do not fit in the societal norm.
colonialism: State University of New York Press.
colonialism: The word colonia is then in turn derived from the Latin word colonus ("farmer") and its root word colere ("to cultivate, to till").
colonialism: With contemporary advances in deep sea and outer space technologies, colonization of the seabed and the Moon have become an object of non-terrestrial colonialism.
colonialism: Retrieved 17 September 2024.
colonialism: This form consists of trading posts as well as larger colonies where colonists would constitute much of the political and economic administration.
colonialism: Empire-builders established several new colonies after this time, including in the German colonial empire and Belgian colonial empire.
colonialism: Muslims from India and Hindus and Sikhs from Pakistan migrated to the respective countries they sought independence for.
colonialism: Harper Encyclopedia of the Modern World: A Concise Reference History from 1760 to the Present (1970) online
Ness, Immanuel and Zak Cope, eds.
colonialism: A significant number later migrated to the US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
colonialism: According to a 2021 study by Jörg Baten and Laura Maravall on the anthropometric influence of colonialism on Africans, the average height of Africans decreased by 1.1 centimetres upon colonization and later recovered and increased overall during colonial rule.
colonialism: European Colonial Rule, 1880–1940: The Impact of the West on India, Southeast Asia, and Africa (Praeger: 1982) 581 pp
Benjamin, Thomas, ed.
colonialism: Citizens of the former colonies of European countries may have a privileged status in some respects with regard to immigration rights when settling in the former European imperial nation.
colonialism: Migration from former colonies has proven to be problematic for European countries, where the majority population may express hostility to ethnic minorities who have immigrated from former colonies.
colonialism: Under their contract, the servant would work for an employer for a term of at least a year, while the employer agreed to pay for the servant's voyage to the colony, possibly pay for the return to the country of origin, and pay the employee a wage as well.
colonialism: Two outgrowths of this imperial agenda were the extension of slavery and indentured servitude.
colonialism: Measles killed a further two million Mexican natives in the 17th century.
colonialism: Settler colonialism and its accompanying logic of elimination vastly expanded in colonies such as Manchuria, Kenya, Mozambique, Palestine, Algeria, Libya, Angola and several others.
colonialism: Up to 100,000 Libyans were killed, particularly Bedouins in the Cyrenaica region.
colonialism: ISBN 978-1-56584-785-9
Resendez, Andres (2016).
colonialism: Rebellions broke out in the later decades of the imperial era, such as India's Sepoy Rebellion of 1857.
colonialism: Exploitation colonialism involves fewer colonists and focuses on the exploitation of natural resources or labour to the benefit of the metropole.
colonialism: "The Iron Wall" (PDF).
colonialism: Settlers acted as the link between indigenous populations and the imperial hegemony, thus bridging the geographical, ideological and commercial gap between the colonisers and colonised.
colonialism: That little control over internal matters disappeared under colonialism.
colonialism: The economic performance of colonies varies significantly.
colonialism: Stanford University Press.
colonialism: In Zalta, Edward N.
colonialism: (1998) gave its name to Subaltern Studies.
colonialism: Settler colonialism involves large-scale immigration by settlers to colonies, often motivated by religious, political, or economic reasons.
colonialism: ISSN 1095-5054.
colonialism: Irwin, eds.
colonialism: Imperialists aggressively and passionately looked forward to filling these spaces for the glory of their respective countries.
colonialism: The findings suggested Europeans could have carried the nonvenereal tropical bacteria home, where the organisms may have mutated into a more deadly form in the different conditions of Europe.
colonialism: Saïd analyzed the works of Balzac, Baudelaire and Lautréamont, arguing that they helped to shape a societal fantasy of European racial superiority.
colonialism: It discusses the distinction between colonialism, imperialism, and conquest and states that "[t]he difficulty of defining colonialism stems from the fact that the term is often used as a synonym for imperialism.
colonialism: This work was a large part of securing financing for colonial ambitions, supporting European expansion and ensuring the profitability of such endeavors.
colonialism: Greeks developed the phalanx system, which enabled their military units to present themselves to their enemies as a wall, with foot soldiers using shields to cover one another during their advance on the battlefield.
colonialism: Colonial Africa fell within that part of the international capitalist economy from which surplus was drawn to feed the metropolitan sector.
colonialism: The term expanded its meaning in the early 20th century to act as a historical reference for European imperial expansion and the imperialist subjection of Asian and African peoples, while also serving as a paradigm for analysing the form of rule.
colonialism: doi:10.1057/9780230306288_12.
colonialism: Photographs and writings of a French war correspondent during the Italo-Turkish war in Libya (1911–1912).
colonialism: Journal of Israeli History: Politics, Society, Culture.
colonialism: Gujari Hindus, Syrian Muslims, Jews, Armenians, Christians from south and central Europe operated trading routes that supplied Persian and Arab horses to the armies of all three empires, Mocha coffee to Delhi and Belgrade, Persian silk to India and Istanbul.
colonialism: Under half (45%) say they would not like the Empire to exist today.
colonialism: From the beginning of the 20th century onwards, the elimination or control of disease in tropical countries became a driving force for all colonial powers.
colonialism: Colonialism also acted to reinforce these same racial belief systems within the "mother-countries" themselves.
colonialism: European nations entered their imperial projects with the goal of enriching the European metropoles.
colonialism: The Habsburg monarchy, the Russian Empire, and the Ottoman Empire existed at the same time but did not expand over oceans.
colonialism: South Africa, which was the result of settler colonization by the Dutch and later the English, became independent and included with it modern day Angola.
colonialism: Encounters between explorers and populations in the rest of the world often introduced new diseases, which sometimes caused local epidemics of extraordinary virulence.
colonialism: Several scholars in recent decades developed the notion of the "other" as an epistemological concept in social theory.
colonialism: Notable examples in Asia include the Anglo-Burmese, Anglo-Indian, Burgher, Eurasian Singaporean, Filipino mestizo, Kristang, and Macanese peoples.
colonialism: The fundamental decisions affecting the lives of the colonised people are made and implemented by the colonial rulers in pursuit of interests that are often defined in a distant metropolis.
colonialism: It is an "instrument of wholesale destruction, dependency and systematic exploitation producing distorted economies, socio-psychological disorientation, massive poverty and neocolonial dependency".
colonialism: He goes on to state that this form of capitalism was doomed for war between the capitalists and the exploited nations with the former inevitably losing.
colonialism: Over the centuries, the Europeans had developed high degrees of immunity to these diseases, while the indigenous peoples had no time to build such immunity.
colonialism: European colonisation and development also changed gendered systems of power already in place around the world.
colonialism: The Partition of British India in August 1947 led to the Independence of India and the creation of Pakistan.
colonialism: 18 (1): 1–32.
colonialism: The result was a technologic, economic, and class-based gender gap that widened over time.
colonialism: With the development of trade routes under the Ottoman Empire,
colonialism: European colonisers disregarded native political and cultural animosities, imposing peace upon people under their military control.
colonialism: Social norms and values had an effect on the constructing of maps.
colonialism: doi:10.1080/03468755.2016.1210880.
colonialism: The Other Slavery: The Uncovered Story of Indian Enslavement in America.
colonialism: Smallpox also ravaged Mexico in the 1520s, killing 150,000 in Tenochtitlan alone, including the emperor, and Peru in the 1530s, aiding the European conquerors.
colonialism: ""Zionism without Zion"?
colonialism: It also killed many New Zealand Māori.
colonialism: In other cases the colonial powers managed to move the burden of administrative costs to the colonies themselves by imposing taxes.
colonialism: This form of colonialism was most prominent in 19th-century Asia, where previously isolationist states were forced to open their ports to Western powers.
colonialism: Nonetheless, immigration has changed the ethnic composition of France; by the 1980s, 25% of the total population of "inner Paris" and 14% of the metropolitan region were of foreign origin, mainly Algerian.
colonialism: Retrieved 30 July 2013.
colonialism: Young people are least likely to feel pride over shame when it comes to the Empire, though about half (48%) of 18–24 year olds do.
colonialism: Comparison of exogeographical representations of ostensibly tropical environments in science fiction art support this conjecture, finding the notion of the tropics to be an artificial collection of ideas and beliefs that are independent of geography.
colonialism: Many practitioners take Edward Saïd's book Orientalism (1978) as the theory's founding work (although French theorists such as Aimé Césaire (1913–2008) and Frantz Fanon (1925–1961) made similar claims decades before Saïd).
colonialism: The victorious Allies divided up the German colonial empire and much of the Ottoman Empire between themselves as League of Nations mandates, grouping these territories into three classes according to how quickly it was deemed that they could prepare for independence.
colonialism: While frequently an imperialist project, colonialism functions through differentiating between the targeted land and people, and that of the colonizers (a critical component of colonization).
colonialism: The source of exploitation comes from within the state.
colonialism: Rather, these empires expanded through the conquest of neighbouring territories.
colonialism: The United States gained overseas territories after the 1898 Spanish–American War, hence, the coining of the term "American imperialism".
colonialism: For example, in certain parts of Sub-Saharan Africa women maintained farmland in which they had usage rights.
colonialism: On the other hand, British colonial administration in Southern Africa, when it officially abolished slavery in the 1830s, caused rifts in society which arguably perpetuated slavery in the Boer Republics and fed into the philosophy of apartheid.
colonialism: "A Dream Deterred: Palestine from Total War to Total Peace".
colonialism: Italy lost control of Libya in 1943 to the British during the North African campaign of World War II.
colonialism: In fact, everywhere where colonial powers established a consistent and continued presence, hybrid communities existed.
colonialism: Robinson, Shira (2013).
colonialism: Some academics have used the term neocolonialism to describe the continuation or imposition of elements of colonial rule through indirect means in the contemporary period.
colonialism: Indentured servants from India travelled to British colonies in Asia, Africa and the Caribbean, and also to French and Portuguese colonies, while Chinese servants travelled to British and Dutch colonies.
colonialism: Global travel and migration in general developed at an increasingly brisk pace throughout the era of European colonial expansion.
colonialism: Italy perpetrated the Libyan genocide between 1929 and 1934 during and after the Second Italo-Senussi War.
colonialism: Spain and Portugal had brought African slaves to work in African colonies such as Cape Verde and São Tomé and Príncipe, and then in Latin America, by the 16th century.
colonialism: This, to Lenin, was the highest stage of capitalism.
