communism: The Draft Decree on the Dissolution of the Constituent Assembly was issued by the All-Russian Central Executive Committee, a committee dominated by Lenin, who had previously supported a multi-party system of free elections.
communism: According to Marxian crisis theory, communism is not an inevitability but an economic necessity.
communism: The moderate Mensheviks (minority) opposed Lenin's Bolsheviks (majority) plan for socialist revolution before the capitalist mode of production was more fully developed.
communism: After losing Soviet subsidies and support, Vietnam and Cuba have attracted more foreign investment to their countries, with their economies becoming more market-oriented.
communism: In the 1917 Russian Constituent Assembly election, socialist parties totaled well over 70% of the vote.
communism: During the final stages of the civil war, however, peasants and workers expressed dissatisfaction with Bolshevik policies, particularly the Bolsheviks' economic policies.
communism: Signet Classics.
communism: The two nations were at sword's point by 1960.
communism: In European Christendom, communism was believed to be the atheist way of life.
communism: On housing the main problem was over-crowding rather than homelessness in the socialist planned economies.
communism: Nationalization is state ownership of property whereas socialization is control and management of property by society.
communism: As the productive forces continued to advance, the communist society, i.e.
communism: Some variants additionally emphasize feudal classes, such as the peasantry and feudal lords, or other classes.
communism: In Protestant England, communism was too phonetically similar to the Roman Catholic communion rite, hence English atheists denoted themselves socialists.
communism: War communism was the first economic system adopted by the Bolsheviks during the Russian Civil War as a result of the many challenges.
communism: In China, the reform and opening up was started in 1978 under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping, and since then China has managed to bring down the poverty rate from 53% in the Mao era to just 8% in 2001.
communism: Political theorist and professor Jodi Dean argues that this limits the scope of discussion around political alternatives to capitalism and neoliberalism.
communism: feudalism, capitalism, and so on) become contradictory and inefficient as the productive forces develop, which results in some form of social revolution arising in response to the mounting contradictions.
communism: In 1793, Restif first used communisme to describe a social order based on egalitarianism and the common ownership of property.
communism: They argue that it is a relatively new mode of resource distribution, which emerged along with modernity.
communism: Eurocommunism was a revisionist trend in the 1970s and 1980s within various Western European communist parties, claiming to develop a theory and practice of social transformation more relevant to their region.
communism: Stalin also created powerful committees, elevated younger specialists, and began major institutional innovations.
communism: The two most prominent militants were Marshall Lin Biao of the army and Mao's wife Jiang Qing.
communism: There were very few joint ventures and therefore little intra-enterprise technology transfer and trade, which in the capitalist world was often undertaken by trans-national corporations.
communism: Struggling against Stalin for power in the Soviet Union, Trotsky and his supporters organized into the Left Opposition, the platform of which became known as Trotskyism.
communism: Critics of communism on the political right point to the excess deaths under Communist states as an indictment of communism as an ideology.
communism: Encyclopedia of Italian Literary Studies (1st ed.).
communism: Historiographical essay that covers the scholarship of the three major schools: totalitarianism, revisionism, and post-revisionism.
communism: It originates from the works of 19th-century German philosophers Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.
communism: "The Long-Term Effects of Communism in Eastern Europe".
communism: ISBN 978-0-80523-901-0.
communism: There is no consensus among genocide scholars and scholars of Communism about whether some or all the events constituted a genocide or mass killing.
communism: After de-Stalinization, Marxism–Leninism was kept in the Soviet Union, while certain anti-revisionist tendencies like Hoxhaism and Maoism stated that such had deviated from its original concept.
communism: It is supported by the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation, with 100 million being the most common estimate used from The Black Book of Communism despite some of the authors of the book distancing themselves from the estimates made by Stephen Courtois.
communism: The United States decided to mobilize its economy for a long contest with the Soviets, built the hydrogen bomb, and strengthened the NATO alliance that covered Western Europe.
communism: Communism may be interpreted as "the state of being of or for the community"; this semantic constitution has led to numerous usages of the word in its evolution.
communism: During the October Revolution in Russia, Vladimir Lenin suggested that a monument be dedicated to More, alongside other important Western thinkers.
communism: At the time, leaders of the Comintern, such as Stalin and Rajani Palme Dutt, stated that capitalist society had entered the Third Period in which a proletariat revolution was imminent but could be prevented by social democrats and other fascist forces.
communism: In August 1940, Trotsky was assassinated in Mexico City on Stalin's orders.
communism: From the 1960s onwards, CMEA countries, beginning with East Germany, attempted "intensive" growth strategies, aiming to raise the productivity of labour and capital.
communism: Communist parties have been described as radical left or far-left.
communism: Early currents of libertarian Marxism, known as left communism, emerged in opposition to Marxism–Leninism and its derivatives such as Stalinism and Maoism, as well as Trotskyism.
communism: Millions of people were accused, humiliated, stripped of power, and either imprisoned, killed, or most often, sent to work as farm laborers.
communism: Communists, such as Marx and Engels, are described as prominent critics of political economy.
communism: The communist movement has faced opposition since it was founded and the opposition to it has often been organized and violent.
communism: Engels, Friedrich; Marx, Karl (1998) [1848].
communism: The declaration acknowledged the independence of the former Soviet republics and created the Commonwealth of Independent States, although five of the signatories ratified it much later or did not do it at all.
communism: In the officially sanctioned textbooks describing the socialist planned economies as they existed in the 1980s, it was claimed as follows:
communism: Enrico Berlinguer, general secretary of Italy's major Communist party, was widely considered the father of Eurocommunism.
communism: doi:10.1111/j.1468-2303.2007.00429.x.
communism: As a term, orthodox Marxism represents the methods of historical materialism and of dialectical materialism, and not the normative aspects inherent to classical Marxism, without implying dogmatic adherence to the results of Marx's investigations.
communism: The Cambridge History of Communism.
communism: According to Engels, state property by itself is private property of capitalist nature, unless the proletariat has control of political power, in which case it forms public property.
communism: Libertarian Marxism has often had a strong influence on both post-left and social anarchists.
communism: ISBN 978-0-87451-678-4.
communism: ISBN 0-333-48586-6.
communism: According to this, a communist revolution would put the working class in power, and establish common ownership of property, the primary element in the transformation of society towards a socialist mode of production.
communism: A group of leaders from the Socialist Revolutionary Party, who opposed the Bolsheviks, gathered in Samara on the Volga River and formed Committee of Members of the Constituent Assembly in June; they also received support from the Czechoslovak Legion, which had previously served the Russian Empire.
communism: Gerstle argues that organized labor in the United States was strongest when the threat of communism reached its peak, and the decline of both organized labor and the welfare state coincided with the collapse of communism.
communism: The CMEA was supposed to ensure coordination of national plans but it failed even to develop a common methodology for planning which could be adopted by its member states.
communism: For a while, Mao was in the shadows but returned to center stage and purged Deng and his allies in the Cultural Revolution (1966–1976).
communism: The years of the Great Leap Forward in fact saw economic regression, with 1958 through 1961 being the only years between 1953 and 1983 in which China's economy saw negative growth.
communism: The modern definition and usage of the term socialism was settled by the 1860s, becoming predominant over alternative terms such as associationism (Fourierism), mutualism, or co-operative, which had previously been used as synonyms.
communism: Trotsky's politics differed sharply from those of Stalin and Mao, most importantly in declaring the need for an international proletarian revolution – rather than socialism in one country – and support for a true dictatorship of the proletariat based on democratic principles.
communism: Sabirov, Kharis Fatykhovich (1987).
communism: The enterprise, according to the theory promulgated by János Kornai, was constrained by its resources not by the demand for its goods and services; nor was it constrained by its finances since the government was not likely to shut it down if it failed to meet its financial targets.
communism: Progress Publishers.
communism: The Communist Party of the Russian Federation has some supporters, but is reformist rather than revolutionary, aiming to lessen the inequalities of Russia's market economy.
communism: An important concept in Marxism is socialization, i.e.
communism: Changes And Continuities In Chinese Communism: Volume I: Ideology, Politics, and Foreign Policy (hardcover ed.).
communism: Foremost among these critics were Marx and his associate Engels.
communism: ISBN 978-1-84467-954-6.
communism: Slater, Dan; Bernhard, Michael (2026).
communism: Unlike many previous communist communities, they replaced the religious emphasis with a rational and philanthropic basis.
communism: In the early 1960s, 40% of chemistry PhDs in the Soviet Union were attained by women, compared with only 5% in the United States.
communism: With the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, many governments abolished Communist rule.
communism: By the 1920s, communism had become one of the two dominant types of socialism in the world, the other being social democracy.
communism: In this way, it tries to avoid the reappearance of class divisions and the need for a state to be in control.
communism: The movement paralyzed China politically and weakened the country economically, culturally, and intellectually for years.
communism: social ownership, versus nationalization.
communism: Before the broad ban in 1921, there were several factions in the Communist party, more prominently among them the Left Opposition, the Right Opposition, and the Workers' Opposition, which debated on the path of development to follow.
communism: ISBN 978-1-31645-985-0.
communism: According to The Oxford Handbook of Karl Marx, "Marx used many terms to refer to a post-capitalist society – positive humanism, socialism, Communism, realm of free individuality, free association of producers, etc.
communism: This development was criticized by more orthodox supporters of the Soviet Union as amounting to social democracy.
communism: The proportion of people changing jobs was between 6 and 13 percent of the labour force a year according to employment data during the 1970s and 1980s in Central and Eastern Europe and the USSR.
communism: Schocken Books.
communism: According to its proponents, it is based on Marxism and Leninism.
communism: As each member state was reluctant to give up national self-sufficiency the CMEA's efforts to encourage specialization was thwarted.
communism: ISBN 978-1-472-52431-7.
communism: Embargoes on high technology exports organized through the US-supported CoCom arrangement hampered technology transfer.
communism: Works such as The Black Book of Communism and Bloodlands legitimized debates on the comparison of Nazism and Stalinism, and by extension communism, and the former work in particular was important in the criminalization of communism.
communism: Marxism considers the latter as its goal and considers nationalization a tactical issue, as state ownership is still in the realm of the capitalist mode of production.
communism: Whether the proletariat was actually in control of the Marxist–Leninist states is a matter of debate between Marxism–Leninism and other communist tendencies.
communism: Pons, Silvio [in Italian] (2014).
communism: The White Movement formed the White Army in various regions to oppose the Bolsheviks, including the Armed Forces of South Russia led by Anton Denikin, the Russian Army led by Aleksandr Kolchak, and corps organized in the Baltic region, Murmansk, and Arkhangelsk.
communism: Bodley Head.
communism: In 1950–1953, China engaged in a large-scale, undeclared war with the United States, South Korea, and United Nations forces in the Korean War.
communism: Its adherents claim that as a unified, coherent higher stage of Marxism, it was not consolidated until the 1980s, first being formalized by the Shining Path in 1982.
communism: Russian socialists included the Russian Socialist Revolutionary Party, as well as the Mensheviks and Bolsheviks, both of which had split from the Russian Social Democratic Labor Party.
communism: Because different political trends trace the historical roots of revisionism to different eras and leaders, there is significant disagreement today as to what constitutes anti-revisionism.
communism: Enterprises faced a resource constraint and hoarded labour and other inputs and avoided sub-contracting intermediate production activities, preferring to retain the work in-house.
communism: Stalin created a leadership system that reflected historic czarist styles of paternalism and repression yet was also quite modern.
communism: Trotskyist currents include orthodox Trotskyism, third camp, Posadism, and Pabloism.
communism: The Left and Workers' oppositions were more critical of the state-capitalist development and the Workers' in particular was critical of bureaucratization and development from above, while the Right Opposition was more supporting of state-capitalist development and advocated the New Economic Policy.
communism: ISBN 978-0-67404-699-3.
communism: This latter branch of socialism produced the communist work of Étienne Cabet in France and Wilhelm Weitling in Germany.
communism: The Communist Horizon.
communism: The Bolsheviks founded the Comintern in 1919, dedicated to promoting revolution throughout the world.
communism: In between capitalism and communism, there is the dictatorship of the proletariat; it is the defeat of the bourgeois state but not yet of the capitalist mode of production, and at the same time the only element which places into the realm of possibility moving on from this mode of production.
communism: into State-ownership does not do away with the capitalistic nature of the productive forces.
communism: Higher estimates account for actions that Communist governments committed against civilians, including executions, human-made famines, and deaths that occurred during, or resulted from, imprisonment, and forced deportations and labor.
communism: Communism in its modern form grew out of the socialist movement in 19th-century Europe that argued capitalism caused the misery of urban factory workers.
communism: Libertarian Marxism is also critical of reformist positions such as those held by social democrats.
communism: The International Bank for Economic Cooperation had no means of converting a country's trade surplus into an option to buy goods and services from other CMEA members.
communism: Political economist Dwight Perkins argues: "Enormous amounts of investment produced only modest increases in production or none at all.
communism: Mao insisted that those he labelled revisionists be removed through violent class struggle.
communism: Pons, Silvio [in Italian]; Service, Robert, eds.
communism: That evening at 7:32, the Soviet flag was lowered from the Kremlin for the last time and replaced with the pre-revolutionary Russian flag.
communism: Over the course of the 1980s it became clear that the CMEA area was "in crisis", although it remained viable economically and was not expected to collapse.
communism: Modern groups which describe themselves as anti-revisionist fall into several categories.
communism: In the words of Friedrich Engels, "the transformation ...
communism: Restif would go on to use the term frequently in his writing and was the first to describe communism as a form of government.
communism: In early 1918, the Bolsheviks accepted the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, and Soviet Russia lost vast territories in Central and Eastern Europe.
communism: In 1848, Marx and Engels offered a new definition of communism and popularized the term in their famous pamphlet The Communist Manifesto.
communism: Unemployment, hunger, poverty, illiteracy and uncertainty about the future had been eliminated.
communism: There was no serious opposition to Stalin as the secret police continued to send possible suspects to the gulag.
communism: Common elements include being theoretical rather than ideological, identifying political parties not by ideology but by class and economic interest, and identifying with the proletariat.
communism: An early distinction between communism and socialism was that the latter aimed to only socialize production, whereas the former aimed to socialize both production and consumption (in the form of common access to final goods).
communism: Most of the Socialist Revolutionary Party's seats went to the right-wing faction.
communism: In his essay "Judging Nazism and Communism", Martin Malia defines a "generic Communism" category as any Communist political party movement led by intellectuals; this umbrella term allows grouping together such different regimes as radical Soviet industrialism and the Khmer Rouge's anti-urbanism.
communism: Orthodox Marxism is the body of Marxist thought that emerged after the death of Marx and which became the official philosophy of the socialist movement as represented in the Second International until World War I in 1914.
communism: Both began forging alliances with communist supporters around the globe, thereby splitting the worldwide movement into two hostile camps.
communism: Various museums and monuments have been constructed in remembrance of the victims of Communism, with support of the European Union and various governments in Canada, Eastern Europe, and the United States.
communism: The 5th-century Mazdak movement in Persia (modern-day Iran) has been described as communistic for challenging the enormous privileges of the noble classes and the clergy, criticizing the institution of private property, and striving to create an egalitarian society.
communism: ISBN 978-0-451-52710-3.
communism: The Cultural Revolution was an upheaval that targeted intellectuals and party leaders from 1966 through 1976.
communism: Although the emergence of the Soviet Union as the first state based on Marxism–Leninism led to socialism becoming widely associated with the Soviet economic model, several scholars argue that in practice this model functioned as a form of state capitalism.
communism: The core principle of council communism is that the government and the economy should be managed by workers' councils, which are composed of delegates elected at workplaces and recallable at any moment.
communism: Sects deemed heretical such as the Waldensians preached an early form of Christian communism.
communism: Implemented in the USSR and China, it resulted in reduced crop yields and is widely believed to have contributed to the Great Chinese Famine.
communism: By contrast, the Central European states of the former Eastern Bloc–Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Slovakia–showed healthy increases in life expectancy from the 1990s onward, compared to nearly thirty years of stagnation under Communism.
communism: The communist mode of production would succeed capitalism as humanity's new mode of production through workers' revolution.
communism: Following Lenin's democratic centralism, the Leninist parties were organized on a hierarchical basis, with active cells of members as the broad base.
communism: In spite of this common usage, Communist parties also continued to describe themselves as socialists dedicated to socialism.
communism: Oxford University Press.
communism: The Communist Manifesto (reprint ed.).
communism: Palgrave Macmillan.
communism: John (2003).
communism: Dirlik, Arif (1989).
communism: As summarized by historians Janzen Rod and Max Stanton, the Hutterites believed in strict adherence to biblical principles, church discipline, and practised a form of communism.
communism: The average post-Communist country had returned to 1989 levels of per-capita GDP by 2005.
communism: The week before the union's formal dissolution, eleven republics signed the Alma-Ata Protocol, formally establishing the Commonwealth of Independent States, and declared that the Soviet Union had ceased to exist.
communism: This intermediate stage was a concept introduced by Vladimir Lenin as a means to defend the Bolshevik seizure of power against traditional Marxist criticism that Russia's productive forces were not sufficiently developed for socialist revolution.
communism: For much of the 20th century, more than one-third of the world's population lived under Communist governments.
communism: Billington.
communism: The term social fascist was used pejoratively to describe social-democratic parties, anti-Comintern and progressive socialist parties and dissenters within Comintern affiliates throughout the interwar period.
communism: The higher estimates have been criticized by several scholars as ideologically motivated and inflated; they are also criticized for being inaccurate due to incomplete data, inflated by counting any excess death, making an unwarranted link to communism, and the grouping and body-counting itself.
communism: According to Grigore Pop-Eleches and Joshua Tucker in their book Communism's Shadow: Historical Legacies and Contemporary Political Attitudes, citizens of post-Communist countries are less supportive of democracy and more supportive of government-provided social welfare.
communism: Under the Red Flag: A History of Communism in Britain (illustrated, hardcover ed.).
communism: Genocide scholars do not consider ideology, or regime-type, as an important factor that explains mass killings.
communism: Walter Scheidel stated that despite wide-reaching government actions, Communist states failed to achieve long-term economic, social, and political success.
communism: Henry, Michel (2014) [1991].
communism: According to Gorlizki and Khlevniuk, Stalin's consistent and overriding goal after 1945 was to consolidate the nation's superpower status and in the face of his growing physical decrepitude, to maintain his own hold on total power.
communism: Leninism is a political ideology developed by Russian Marxist revolutionary Vladimir Lenin that proposes the establishment of the dictatorship of the proletariat, led by a revolutionary vanguard party, as the political prelude to the establishment of communism.
communism: Material standards of living were rising steadily and everyone had free access to knowledge and to the values of world and national culture.
communism: Montero, scholars like Ernest Renan, and theologians like Charles Ellicott and Donald Guthrie, generally agree with.
communism: What Is Communism?
communism: In the last letters before his death, Lenin warned against the danger of Stalin's personality and urged the Soviet government to replace him.
communism: The Bolsheviks initially viewed the revolution in Russia as the beginning of a world revolution, and foreign intervention and their struggle against nationalist forces only reinforced this belief.
communism: In the 20th century, Communist governments espousing Marxism–Leninism came to power, first in the Soviet Union with the 1917 Russian Revolution, then in Eastern Europe, Asia, and other regions after World War II.
communism: Accordingly, capitalism divided the world between two major classes, namely that of the proletariat and the bourgeoisie.
communism: Along with anarchism, libertarian Marxism is one of the main derivatives of libertarian socialism.
communism: According to this analysis, the Industrial Revolution ushered the world into the new capitalist mode of production.
communism: As all producers were working in a resource-constrained economy they were perpetually in short supply and the shortages could never be eliminated, leading to chronic disruption of production schedules.
communism: ISBN 978-0-531-02571-0.
communism: In the 1980s, the Soviet Union had more scientists and engineers relative to the world's population than any other major country, owing to strong levels of state support.
communism: This reflects a distinction between a libertarian socialist approach of communization, revolutionary spontaneity, and workers' self-management, and an authoritarian socialist, vanguardist, or party-driven approach to establish a socialist state, which is expected to wither away.
communism: A communist society entails the absence of private property and social classes, and ultimately money and the state.
communism: Pipes, Richard (2003).
communism: Notable theorists of libertarian Marxism have included Anton Pannekoek, Raya Dunayevskaya, Cornelius Castoriadis, Maurice Brinton, Daniel Guérin, and Yanis Varoufakis, the latter of whom claims that Marx himself was a libertarian Marxist.
communism: Into the 21st century, there are multiple critiques of political economy; what they have in common is the critique of what critics of political economy tend to view as dogma, i.e.
communism: claims of the economy as a necessary and transhistorical societal category.
communism: Communism: A History (reprint ed.).
communism: Bulgaria and Romania followed this trend after the introduction of more serious economic reforms in the late 1990s.
communism: Peter Kropotkin, the main theorist of anarcho-communism, stated that a revolutionary society should "transform itself immediately into a communist society", that it should go immediately into what Marx had regarded as the "more advanced, completed, phase of communism".
communism: Pop-Eleches, Grigore; Tucker, Joshua A.
communism: Marxism is a method of socioeconomic analysis that uses a materialist interpretation of historical development, better known as historical materialism, to understand social class relations and social conflict and a dialectical perspective to view social transformation.
communism: According to Alexander Dallin, the idea to group together different countries, such as Afghanistan and Hungary, has no adequate explanation.
communism: ISBN 978-0-80214-512-3.
communism: Those who are left-authoritarian in this sense more often tend to be older generations that lived under Communism.
communism: Despite those shortcomings, Philipp Ther stated that there was a general increase in the standard of living throughout Eastern Bloc countries as the result of modernization programs under Communist governments.
communism: ISBN 978-1-31650-159-7.
communism: In 1917, long-standing political, social, and economic issues fueled revolutionary sentiment in Russian Empire, which was still embroiled in World War I at the time.
communism: It was a result of the declaration number 142-Н of the Soviet of the Republics of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union.
communism: The February Revolution overthrew the Russian Empire, and the Russian Provisional Government, which was dominated by liberals, particularly the Constitutional Democratic Party, and included some moderate socialists, came to power.
communism: These classes are directly antagonistic as the latter possesses private ownership of the means of production, earning profit via the surplus value generated by the proletariat, who have no ownership of the means of production and therefore no option but to sell its labor to the bourgeoisie.
communism: Many advocates of Christian communism state that it was taught by Jesus and practiced by the apostles themselves, an argument that historians and others, including anthropologist Roman A.
communism: Especially prominent within the French Communist Party, Italian Communist Party, and Communist Party of Spain, Communists of this nature sought to undermine the influence of the Soviet Union and its All-Union Communist Party (Bolsheviks) during the Cold War.
communism: They also found that those who lived under Communist rule were more likely to be left-authoritarian (referencing the right-wing authoritarian personality) than citizens of other countries.
communism: Social imperialism was a term used by Mao to criticize the Soviet Union post-Stalin.
communism: In his 1516 treatise titled Utopia, More portrayed a society based on common ownership of property, whose rulers administered it through the application of reason and virtue.
communism: The October Revolution transferred power to the All-Russian Congress of Soviets in which the Bolsheviks had a majority.
communism: The devastation of World War II resulted in a massive recovery program involving the rebuilding of industrial plants, housing, and transportation as well as the demobilization and migration of millions of soldiers and civilians.
communism: In contrast to those of social democracy and Leninist communism, the central argument of council communism is that democratic workers' councils arising in the factories and municipalities are the natural forms of working-class organizations and governmental power.
communism: Grove Press.
communism: A Documentary History of Communism and the World: From Revolution to Collapse.
communism: Stalin himself believed that capitalism was a hollow shell and would crumble under increased non-military pressure exerted through proxies in countries like Italy.
communism: As the supply of consumer goods failed to match rising incomes (because workers still received their pay even if they were not fully productive), household savings accumulated, indicating, in the official terminology, "postponed demand".
communism: Three common Maoist values are revolutionary populism, being practical, and dialectics.
communism: Emily Morris from University College London wrote that because Karl Marx's writings have inspired many movements, including the Russian Revolution of 1917, communism is "commonly confused with the political and economic system that developed in the Soviet Union" after the revolution.
communism: John Goodwyn Barmby is credited with the first use of communism in English, around 1840.
communism: While in exile, Trotsky continued his campaign against Stalin, founding in 1938 the Fourth International, a Trotskyist rival to the Comintern.
communism: Dean, Jodi (2012).
communism: Labour exchanges were established in the USSR in 1967 to help enterprises re-allocate workers and provide information on job vacancies.
communism: It also contains aspects which according to some are deviations from Marxism such as socialism in one country.
communism: China's youth responded to Mao's appeal by forming Red Guard groups around the country.
communism: Except for North Korea, these have allowed more economic competition while maintaining one-party rule.
communism: However, Branko Milanović wrote in 2015 that following the end of the Cold War, many of those countries' economies declined to such an extent during the transition to capitalism that they have yet to return to the point they were prior to the collapse of communism.
communism: Modern Library.
communism: Gerlach, Christian; Six, Clemens, eds.
communism: Higher estimates are criticized for being based on sparse and incomplete data when significant errors are inevitable, and for being skewed to higher possible values.
communism: Orthodox Marxism aims to simplify, codify, and systematize Marxist method and theory by clarifying the perceived ambiguities and contradictions of classical Marxism.
communism: By the 1960s and 1970s, many Western communist parties had criticized many of the actions of communist states, distanced from them, and developed a democratic road to socialism, which became known as Eurocommunism.
communism: Naimark, Norman; Pons, Silvio [in Italian], eds.
communism: Some of its most remarkable technological achievements, such as launching the world's first space satellite, were achieved through military research.
communism: In the Soviet Union, this struggle against Marxism–Leninism was represented by Trotskyism, which describes itself as a Marxist and Leninist tendency.
communism: ISBN 978-0-19965-762-9.
communism: In the USSR the area of residential accommodation was 15.5 square meters per person by 1990 in urban areas but 15 percent of the population were without their own separate accommodation and had to live in communal apartments according to the 1989 census.
communism: Lenin believed the USSR would never overtake the developed world if it remained as technologically backward as it was upon its founding.
communism: Fuchs-Schündeln, Nicola; Schündeln, Matthias (2020).
communism: The social fascism theory was advocated vociferously by the Communist Party of Germany, which was largely controlled and funded by the Soviet leadership from 1928.
communism: ISBN 978-0-30010-649-7.
communism: Criticism of the idea of private property continued into the Age of Enlightenment of the 18th century through such thinkers as Gabriel Bonnot de Mably, Jean Meslier, Étienne-Gabriel Morelly, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau in France.
communism: In the midst of this turmoil during the winter of 1946–1947, the Soviet Union experienced the worst natural famine in the 20th century.
communism: Council communism is a movement that originated from Germany and the Netherlands in the 1920s, whose primary organization was the Communist Workers' Party of Germany.
communism: Some communists are distinguished by other Marxists in seeing peasants and smallholders of property as possible allies in their goal of shortening the abolition of capitalism.
communism: However, in practice this meant that investment was shifted towards new branches of industry, including the electronics, computing, automotive and nuclear power sectors, leaving the traditional heavy industries dependent upon older technologies.
communism: Classical Marxism is the economic, philosophical, and sociological theories expounded by Marx and Engels as contrasted with later developments in Marxism, especially Leninism and Marxism–Leninism.
communism: Despite the rhetoric about modernization, innovation remained weak as enterprise managers preferred routine production that was easier to plan and brought them predictable bonuses.
communism: As the Industrial Revolution advanced, socialist critics blamed capitalism for the misery of the proletariat – a new class of urban factory workers who labored under often-hazardous conditions.
communism: On the previous day, Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev (the eighth and final leader of the Soviet Union) resigned, declared his office extinct, and handed over its powers, including control of the Cheget, to Russian president Boris Yeltsin.
communism: The synthesis of Marxism–Leninism–Maoism, which builds upon the two individual theories as the Chinese adaption of Marxism–Leninism, did not occur during the life of Mao.
communism: Western economists called this "monetary overhang" or "repressed inflation".
communism: This distinction can be observed in Marx's communism, where the distribution of products is based on the principle of "to each according to his needs", in contrast to a socialist principle of "to each according to his contribution".
communism: Until the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953, the Soviet Communist party referred to its own ideology as Marxism–Leninism–Stalinism.
communism: University of Chicago Press.
communism: The Global Revolution: A History of International Communism 1917–1991 (English, hardcover ed.).
communism: Under Stalin, the Soviet government persecuted geneticists in favour of Lysenkoism, a pseudoscience rejected by the scientific community in the Soviet Union and abroad but supported by Stalin's inner circles.
communism: What matters is that many, many people were killed by communist regimes." Historian Mark Bradley wrote that while the exact numbers have been in dispute, the order of magnitude is not.
communism: Prices on the black market were several times higher than in the official price-controlled outlets, reflecting the scarcity and possible illegality of the sale of these items.
communism: This revolutionary change is the vehicle for fundamental society-wide changes and ultimately leads to the emergence of new economic systems.
communism: The Red Flag: A History of Communism.
communism: In the 17th century, communist thought surfaced again in England, where a Puritan religious group known as the Diggers advocated the abolition of private ownership of land.
communism: Communists often seek a voluntary state of self-governance but disagree on the means to this end.
communism: 46 (4): 77–91.
communism: Fürst, Juliane; Pons, Silvio [in Italian]; Selden, Mark, eds.
communism: Service, Robert (2010).
communism: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
communism: The Communist Party of China, led by Mao Zedong, established the People's Republic of China, which would follow its own ideological path of development following the Sino-Soviet split.
communism: ISBN 978-1-57958-390-3.
communism: University Press of New England.
communism: In its modern form, communism grew out of the socialist movement in 19th-century Europe.
communism: After Mao's death in 1976, the survivors were rehabilitated and many returned to power.
communism: Bloomsbury.
communism: Other communists and Marxists, especially social democrats who favored the development of liberal democracy as a prerequisite to socialism, were critical of the Bolsheviks from the beginning due to Russia being seen as too backward for a socialist revolution.
communism: In the medieval Christian Church, some monastic communities and religious orders shared their land and their other property.
communism: Enterprise managers also ignored inducements to introduce labour-saving measures as they wished to retain a reserve of personnel to be available to meet their production target by working at top speed when supplies were delayed.
communism: Across the whole CEE/CIS area, GDP per person was estimated at $6,162.
communism: Under conditions of "taut planning", the economy was expected to produce a volume of output higher than the reported capacity of enterprises and there was no "slack" in the system.
communism: They reject what they describe as mainstream economists' tendency to posit the economy as an a priori societal category.
communism: Outside Communist states, reformed Communist parties have led or been part of left-leaning government or regional coalitions, including in the former Eastern Bloc.
communism: Translated by Davidson, Scott.
communism: Life expectancy in the CEE/CIS area in the period 1985–1990 was 68 years, while for the countries of the OECD it was 75 years.
communism: Enterprises in socialist planned economies operated within a "soft" budget constraint, unlike enterprises in capitalist market economies which are demand-constrained and operate within "hard" budget constraints, as they face bankruptcy if their costs exceed their sales.
communism: Rather than representing the dictatorship of the proletariat, Trotsky claimed that the Soviet Union had become a degenerated workers' state under the leadership of Stalin in which class relations had re-emerged in a new form.
communism: By 1989, Soviet scientists were among the world's best-trained specialists in several areas, such as energy physics, selected areas of medicine, mathematics, welding, space technology, and military technologies.
communism: Lovell, Julia (2019).
communism: Communism's Shadow: Historical Legacies and Contemporary Political Attitudes (hardcover ed.).
communism: They found that "GDP fell as much as 50 percent in the 1990s in some republics...
communism: Semantically, communis can be translated to "of or for the community", while isme is a suffix that indicates the abstraction into a state, condition, action, or doctrine.
communism: Libertarian Marxism is a broad range of economic and political philosophies that emphasize the anti-authoritarian aspects of Marxism.
communism: The movement spread into the military, urban workers, and the Communist party leadership itself.
communism: ISBN 978-3030549657.
communism: "The Socialist Camp and World Power 1941–1960s".
communism: Authors have written about mass killings under communist regimes and mortality rates, which remain controversial, polarized, and debated topics in academia, historiography, and politics when discussing communism and the legacy of Marxist-Leninist states.
communism: The Palgrave Handbook of Anti-Communist Persecutions.
communism: From the 1990s, many Communist parties adopted democratic principles and came to share power with others in government, such as the CPN UML and the Nepal Communist Party, which support People's Multiparty Democracy in Nepal.
communism: ISBN 978-184792-250-2.
communism: At the top, personal loyalty to Stalin counted for everything.
communism: Some forms of anarcho-communism, such as insurrectionary anarchism, are egoist and strongly influenced by radical individualism, believing that anarchist communism does not require a communitarian nature at all.
communism: Public memory of 20th-century Communist states has been described as a battleground between the communist-sympathetic or anti-anti-communist political left and the anti-communism of the political right.
communism: Critique of political economy is a form of social critique that rejects the various social categories and structures that constitute the mainstream discourse concerning the forms and modalities of resource allocation and income distribution in the economy.
communism: Since the 20th century, ancient Rome has been examined in this context, as well as thinkers such as Aristotle, Cicero, Demosthenes, Plato, and Tacitus.
communism: Rejecting the Soviet model of rapid urbanization, Mao Zedong and his top aide Deng Xiaoping launched the Great Leap Forward in 1957–1961 with the goal of industrializing China overnight, using the peasant villages as the base rather than large cities.
communism: Daniels, Robert Vincent (2007).
communism: The Russian Civil War broke out, and to counter the various forces opposing the Bolsheviks, the Bolsheviks gradually transformed their early, largely volunteer-based military into a professional Red Army, led by Leon Trotsky.
communism: Socialism has been described as a philosophy seeking distributive justice, and communism as a subset of socialism that prefers economic equality as its form of distributive justice.
communism: Only a few nominally Communist governments remain, such as China, Cuba, Laos, North Korea, and Vietnam.
communism: From the 1960s, groups who called themselves Maoists, or those who upheld Maoism, were not unified around a common understanding of Maoism, instead having their own particular interpretations of the political, philosophical, economical, and military works of Mao.
communism: Princeton University Press.
communism: For tertiary education, the CEE/CIS had 2,600 university students per 100,000 population, while in the OECD the comparable figure was 3,550 students.
communism: The narrative posits that famines and mass deaths by Communist states can be attributed to a single cause and that communism, as "the deadliest ideology in history", or in the words of Jonathan Rauch as "the deadliest fantasy in human history", represents the greatest threat to humanity.
communism: One of the first uses of the word in its modern sense is in a letter sent by Victor d'Hupay to Nicolas Restif de la Bretonne around 1785, in which d'Hupay describes himself as an auteur communiste ("communist author").
communism: Private ownership of land ended and the peasants worked in large collective farms that were now ordered to start up heavy industry operations, such as steel mills.
communism: In the United States, communism is widely used as a pejorative term as part of a Red Scare, much like socialism, and mainly in reference to authoritarian socialism and Communist states.
communism: While the revolutionaries were originally not uniformly communist, after their military victory, the new rebel officials underwent a sort of radicalization alongside their political consolidation, that pushed the new government to eventually become Marxist-Leninist.
communism: North Korea, the last Communist country that still practices Soviet-style Communism, is both repressive and isolationist.
communism: They also tend to consider the views which are commonplace within the field of economics as faulty, or simply as pseudoscience.
communism: At the root of Marxism is historical materialism, the materialist conception of history which holds that the key characteristic of economic systems through history has been the mode of production and that the change between modes of production has been triggered by class struggle.
communism: The critique rejects economists' use of what its advocates believe are unrealistic axioms, faulty historical assumptions, and the normative use of various descriptive narratives.
communism: Class and national oppression had been totally eradicated.
communism: Unemployment did not exist officially in the socialist planned economies, though there were people between jobs and a fraction of unemployable people as a result of illness, disability or other problems, such as alcoholism.
communism: Origins of Chinese Communism.
communism: Industrialization failed, and the main result was a sharp unexpected decline in agricultural output, which led to mass famine and millions of deaths.
communism: During the same period, Mao's personality cult grew to immense proportions.
communism: Memory studies have been done on how the events are memorized.
communism: ISBN 978-0-75091-485-7.
communism: doi:10.1257/jep.34.2.172.
communism: Sutton Publishing.
communism: The Radical Pamphlet Collection at the Library of Congress contains materials on the topic of communism.
communism: During the upheaval of the French Revolution, communism emerged as a political doctrine under the auspices of François-Noël Babeuf, Nicolas Restif de la Bretonne, and Sylvain Maréchal, all of whom can be considered the progenitors of modern communism, according to James H.
communism: Trotskyism, developed by Leon Trotsky in opposition to Stalinism, is a Marxist and Leninist tendency that supports the theory of permanent revolution and world revolution rather than the two-stage theory and Stalin's socialism in one country.
communism: Relations with the United States and Britain went from friendly to hostile, as they denounced Stalin's political controls over eastern Europe and his Berlin Blockade.
communism: Some authors, as Stéphane Courtois, propose a theory of equivalence between class and racial genocide.
communism: Watson, allege that genocide was dictated in otherwise forgotten works of Karl Marx.
communism: The Journal of Moral Education.
communism: By 1888, Marxists employed the term socialism in place of communism, which had come to be considered an old-fashioned synonym for the former.
communism: In addition, other groups uphold various less-well-known historical leaders such as Enver Hoxha, who also broke with Mao during the Sino-Albanian split.
communism: Overall enrollment at primary, secondary and tertiary levels was 75 percent in the CEE/CIS region and 82 percent in the OECD countries.
communism: Compulsory unemployment insurance schemes operated in Bulgaria, Eastern Germany and Hungary but the numbers claiming support as a result of losing their job through no fault of their own numbered a few hundred a year.
communism: During the Cold War, Marxism–Leninism was the ideology of the most clearly visible communist movement and is the most prominent ideology associated with communism.
communism: As of 2026, states controlled by Communist parties under a single-party system include the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
communism: When they have gained control of the state, Leninist communists' main task was preventing other political parties from deceiving the proletariat, such as by running their own independent candidates.
communism: In addition, 61 percent said that standards of living were now higher than they had been under Communism, while only 31 percent said that they were worse, with the remaining 8 percent saying that they did not know or that standards of living had not changed.
communism: Plants were built in remote locations, due to the lack of technical experts, managers, transportation, or needed facilities.
communism: Left communism is the range of communist viewpoints held by the communist left, which criticizes the political ideas and practices espoused, particularly following the series of revolutions that brought World War I to an end by Bolsheviks and social democrats.
communism: The Soviet Union placed great emphasis on science and technology.
communism: With the Constituent Assembly dissolved, anti-Bolshevik forces could now only express their dissatisfaction with Bolshevik policies through extra-parliamentary means.
communism: Every citizen had a right in practice to take part in discussing and solving any problems in the life of the enterprise, region, republic and the country they lived in, including the rights to free speech, of assembly and to demonstrate.
communism: ISBN 978-0-69117-558-4.
communism: The "extensive" growth model was retarding growth in the CMEA as a whole, with member countries dependent upon supplies of raw materials from the USSR and upon the Soviet market for sales of goods.
communism: Thus, on the basis of IMF estimates, national income (GDP) per person in the CEE/CIS area was 43 percent of that in the OECD area.
communism: In the teeth of persecution, Stalin's deputies cultivated informal norms and mutual understandings which provided the foundations for collective rule after his death.
communism: At one time or another, various small communist communities existed, generally under the inspiration of religious text.
communism: In Western Europe, communist parties were part of several post-war governments, and even when the Cold War forced many of those countries to remove them from government, such as in Italy, they remained part of the liberal-democratic process.
communism: Christian communism enjoys some support in Russia.
communism: Communism: From Marx's Manifesto to 20th-century Reality.
communism: ISBN 978-0-36716-385-3.
communism: Communists on Education and Culture 1848–1948.
communism: Every citizen had a guaranteed right to work, rest, education, health care, abode and security in old age and maintenance in the event of disability.
communism: Communism's decline has been attributed to economic inefficiency and to authoritarianism and bureaucracy within Communist governments.
communism: 34 (2): 172–191.
communism: Infant mortality in the CEE/CIS area was 25 for every 1,000 live births in 1990, compared to 13 in the OECD area.
communism: The decline in growth rates reflected a combination of diminishing returns to capital accumulation and low innovation as well as micro-economic inefficiencies, which a high rate of saving and investment was unable to counter.
communism: In 1959, Cuban revolutionaries overthrew Cuba's previous government under the dictator Fulgencio Batista.
communism: Developed from the 1950s until the Deng Xiaoping's reform and opening up in the 1970s, it was widely applied as the guiding political and military ideology of the Communist Party of China and as the theory guiding revolutionary movements around the world.
communism: Monetary relations in the form of exchange-value, profit, interest, and wage labor would not operate and apply to Marxist socialism.
communism: In short, the Great Leap was a very expensive disaster." Put in charge of rescuing the economy, Deng adopted pragmatic policies that the idealistic Mao disliked.
communism: Marxism–Leninism is a political ideology developed by Joseph Stalin.
communism: Notable among them were Robert Owen, who founded New Harmony, Indiana, in 1825, and Charles Fourier, whose followers organized other settlements in the United States, such as Brook Farm in 1841.
communism: There are many variants of communism, such as anarchist communism, Marxist schools of thought (including Leninism and its offshoots), and religious communism.
communism: The Rise and Fall of Communism in Russia.
communism: The two classes under capitalism are the proletariat (working class), who make up most of the population and sell their labor power to survive, and the bourgeoisie (owning class), a minority that derives profit from employing the proletariat through private ownership of the means of production.
communism: Citing outdated voter-rolls, which did not acknowledge the party split, and the assembly's conflicts with the Congress of Soviets, the Bolshevik–Left Socialist-Revolutionaries government moved to dissolve the Constituent Assembly in January 1918.
communism: History and Theory.
communism: The Bolsheviks' successful rise to power was based upon the slogans such as "Peace, Bread, and Land", which tapped into the massive public desire for an end to Russian involvement in World War I, the peasants' demand for land reform, and popular support for the soviets.
communism: The function of the Leninist vanguard party is to provide the working classes with the political consciousness (education and organisation) and revolutionary leadership necessary to depose capitalism in the Russian Empire (1721–1917).
communism: It is seen as merely one of many types of historically specific ways to distribute resources.
communism: When they engage in elections, Leninist communists' main task is that of educating voters in what are deemed their true interests rather than in response to the expression of interest by voters themselves.
communism: This vanguardist approach comes from their commitments to democratic centralism in which communists can only be cadres, i.e.
communism: Yale University Press.
communism: Daniels, Robert Vincent (1994).
communism: ISBN 978-0-19-505454-5.
communism: "Varieties of Communism".
communism: Others reject both Stalin and Mao, tracing their ideological roots back to Marx and Lenin.
communism: They were made up only of elite cadres approved by higher members of the party as being reliable and completely subject to party discipline.
communism: The economic platform of a planned economy combined with an authentic worker's democracy as originally advocated by Trotsky has constituted the programme of the Fourth International and the modern Trotskyist movement.
communism: Through the experience of the people's war waged by the party, the Shining Path were able to posit Maoism as the newest development of Marxism.
communism: While the war ended in a military stalemate, it gave Mao the opportunity to identify and purge elements in China that seemed supportive of capitalism.
communism: The Reality of Communism.
communism: By 1947, the Cold War had begun.
communism: The dominant forms of communism are based on Marxism or Leninism but non-Marxist versions of communism also exist, such as anarcho-communism and Christian communism, which remain partly influenced by Marxist theories, such as libertarian Marxism and humanist Marxism in particular.
communism: Social fascism was a theory supported by the Comintern and affiliated Communist parties during the early 1930s, which held that social democracy was a variant of fascism because it stood in the way of a dictatorship of the proletariat, in addition to a supposedly shared corporatist economic model.
communism: Many schools of thought have sought to combine Marxian concepts and non-Marxian concepts, which has then led to contradictory conclusions.
communism: It was not until 1917, with the October Revolution, that socialism came to be used to refer to a distinct stage between capitalism and communism.
communism: Encyclopædia Britannica Online.
communism: Some argued this was the beginning of the development of vanguardism as an hierarchical party–elite that controls society, which resulted in a split between anarchism and Marxism, and Leninist communism assuming the dominant position for most of the 20th century, excluding rival socialist currents.
communism: Forman, James D.
communism: Terms used by Communist states include national-democratic, people's democratic, socialist-oriented, and workers and peasants' states.
communism: The institute also stated that the process of privatization in Russia was "deeply flawed" due to Russia's reforms being "far less rapid" than those of Central Europe and the Baltic states.
communism: Several scholars state that the negative economic developments in post-Communist countries after the fall of Communism led to increased nationalist sentiment and nostalgia for the Communist era.
communism: Some authors, such as John Gray, Daniel Goldhagen, and Richard Pipes, consider the ideology of communism to be a significant causative factor in mass killings.
communism: "Communism" .
communism: Public memory of 20th-century Marxist-Leninist states has been described as a battleground between anti-communism and anti anti-communism.
communism: Maoism is the theory derived from the teachings of the Chinese political leader Mao Zedong.
communism: According to Richard Pipes, the idea of a classless, egalitarian society first emerged in ancient Greece.
communism: Mao charged that Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev was the leader of a "revisionist clique" which had turned against Marxism and Leninism and was now setting the stage for the restoration of capitalism.
communism: According to communists, the proletariat can avoid mass unemployment only if capitalism is overthrown; in the short run, state-oriented communists favor state ownership of the commanding heights of the economy as a means to defend the proletariat from capitalist pressure.
communism: There is no definite agreement between historians about whether Stalin actually followed the principles of Marx and Lenin.
communism: Zinoviev, Alexandre (1984) [1980].
communism: To these tendencies, Marxism–Leninism is neither Marxism nor Leninism nor the union of both but rather an artificial term created to justify Stalin's ideological distortion, forced into the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the Comintern.
communism: In early 1950, Stalin gave the go-ahead for North Korea's invasion of South Korea, expecting a short war.
communism: Communist thought has also been traced back to the works of the 16th-century English writer Thomas More.
communism: After the Chinese Civil War, Mao Zedong and the Chinese Communist Party came to power in 1949 as the Nationalist government headed by the Kuomintang fled to the island of Taiwan.
communism: From Communism to Capitalism.
communism: Some authors posit that there is a Communist death toll, whose death estimates vary widely, depending on the definitions of the deaths that are included in them, ranging from lows of 10–20 million to highs over 100 million.
communism: Others have argued that, while certain estimates may not be accurate, "quibbling about numbers is unseemly.
communism: Late Communism in Global Perspective, 1968 to the Present".
communism: Critics of economy commonly view what is most commonly referred to as the economy as being bundles of metaphysical concepts, as well as societal and normative practices, rather than being the result of any self-evident or proclaimed economic laws.
communism: In 2011, The Guardian published an analysis of the former Soviet countries twenty years after the fall of the USSR.
communism: The Passing of An Illusion: The Idea of Communism In the Twentieth Century.
communism: It resulted in widespread factional struggles in all walks of life.
communism: Critics of economy critique the given status of the economy itself, and do not aim to create theories regarding how to administer economies.
communism: Different Marxian schools place a greater emphasis on certain aspects of classical Marxism while rejecting or modifying other aspects.
communism: The Great Purge of 1936–1938 was Joseph Stalin's attempt to destroy any possible opposition within the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.
communism: Left communists assert positions which they regard as more authentically Marxist and proletarian than the views of Marxism–Leninism espoused by the Communist International after its first congress (March 1919) and during its second congress (July–August 1920).
communism: Mao stated that the Soviet Union had itself become an imperialist power while maintaining a socialist façade.
communism: ISBN 978-0-69113-585-4.
communism: In terms of education, the two areas enjoyed universal adult literacy and full enrollment of children in primary and secondary schools.
communism: On April 15, 1921, at the 10th Party Congress, Lenin called for the implementation of the New Economic Policy, under which the Bolsheviks would gradually scale back revolutionary policies in order to revive the economy and ease overall tensions.
communism: He was stunned when the Americans entered and defeated the North Koreans, putting them almost on the Soviet border.
communism: "Revisionism in Soviet History".
communism: Translated by Kan, D.
communism: This dictatorship, based on the Paris Commune's model, is to be the most democratic state where the whole of the public authority is elected and recallable under the basis of universal suffrage.
communism: The philosophy of orthodox Marxism includes the understanding that material development (advances in technology in the productive forces) is the primary agent of change in the structure of society and of human social relations and that social systems and their relations (e.g.
communism: During the final stages of the civil war, however, peasants and workers expressed dissatisfaction with Bolshevik policies, particularly their economic policies including Prodrazverstka.
communism: It is only in capitalism that private property in itself can be abolished.
communism: Maoism: A Global History.
communism: Meanwhile, the end of World War I ushered in a period of social upheaval across Europe, with a wave of socialist revolutions sweeping through Europe.
communism: Communist parties, or their descendant parties, remain politically important in several other countries.
communism: Hoxha agreed with Mao in this analysis, before later using the expression to also condemn Mao's Three Worlds Theory.
communism: Priestland, David (2009).
communism: (English ed.).
communism: A key difference between Maoism and other forms of Marxism–Leninism is that peasants should be the bulwark of the revolutionary energy which is led by the working class.
communism: Trotsky had the support of many party intellectuals but this was overshadowed by the huge apparatus which included the GPU and the party cadres who were at the disposal of Stalin.
communism: Laybourn, Keith; Murphy, Dylan (1999).
communism: The effect of this was to preserve a high level of employment.
communism: According to Marxism, the dictatorship of the proletariat represents the rule of the majority (democracy) rather than of one party, to the extent that the co-founder of Marxism, Friedrich Engels, described its "specific form" as the democratic republic.
communism: Russian musician Yegor Letov was an outspoken Christian communist, and in a 1995 interview he was quoted as saying: "Communism is the Kingdom of God on Earth."
communism: According to Kristen R.
communism: This view is opposed to both the reformist and the Leninist communist ideologies, which respectively stress parliamentary and institutional government by applying social reforms on the one hand, and vanguard parties and participative democratic centralism on the other.
communism: Comrades!: A History of World Communism.
communism: Daniel Goldhagen argues that 20th century communist regimes "have killed more people than any other regime type."
Some authors and politicians, such as George G.
communism: He greatly underestimated the economic strength of the West and instead of triumph saw the West build up alliances that were designed to permanently stop or contain Soviet expansion.
communism: Christian communism is a theological and political theory based upon the view that the teachings of Jesus Christ compel Christians to support religious communism as the ideal social system.
communism: Anarcho-communism differs from Marxism in that it rejects its view about the need for a state socialism phase prior to establishing communism.
communism: ISBN 978-0-82853-346-1.
communism: Marxist–Leninist governments modeled on the Soviet Union took power with Soviet assistance in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Poland, Hungary, and Romania.
communism: Mao has also been praised for transforming China from a semi-colony to a leading world power, with greatly advanced literacy, women's rights, basic healthcare, primary education, and life expectancy.
communism: In his 1895 Cromwell and Communism, Eduard Bernstein stated that several groups during the English Civil War (especially the Diggers) espoused clear communistic, agrarianist ideals and that Oliver Cromwell's attitude towards these groups was at best ambivalent and often hostile.
communism: Council communism and left communism, inspired by the German Revolution of 1918–1919 and the wide proletarian revolutionary wave, arose in response to developments in Russia and are critical of self-declared constitutionally socialist states.
communism: For the OECD area as a whole estimated GDP per person was $14,385.
communism: It continues today as a theoretical and activist position within both libertarian Marxism and libertarian socialism.
communism: Similarly, the proletariat would capture political power, abolish bourgeois property through the common ownership of the means of production, therefore abolishing the bourgeoisie, ultimately abolishing the proletariat itself and ushering the world into communism as a new mode of production.
communism: The emergence of the Soviet Union as the world's first Communist state led to the term's widespread association with Marxism–Leninist and the Soviet-type economic planning model.
communism: Housing was generally of good quality in both the CEE/CIS region and in the OECD countries: 98 and 99 percent of the population in the OECD countries had access to safe drinking water and improved sanitation respectively, compared to 93 and 85 percent in the CEE/CIS area by 1990.
communism: This was another key element behind the consolidation of capitalism as the new mode of production, the final expression of class and property relations that has led to a massive expansion of production.
communism: Fitzpatrick, Sheila (2007).
communism: Prior to becoming associated with its more modern conception of an economic and political organization, it was initially used to designate various social situations.
communism: Lenin officially changed the party's name to the Communist Party in March 1918.
communism: At first, there was close cooperation with Stalin, who sent in technical experts to aid the industrialization process along the line of the Soviet model of the 1930s.
communism: Furet, François (2000).
communism: Stalin supported China's entry into the Korean War, which drove the Americans back to the prewar boundaries, but which escalated tensions.
communism: In the early 19th century, various social reformers founded communities based on common ownership.
communism: These were characterized by one-party rule, rejection of private property and capitalism, state control of economic activity and mass media, restrictions on freedom of religion, and suppression of opposition.
communism: Those who engage in critique of economy tend to reject the view that the economy and its categories is to be understood as something transhistorical.
communism: By 1988, GDP per person, measured at purchasing power parity in US dollars, was $7,519 in Russia and $6,304 for the USSR.
communism: While liberal democrats looked to the Revolutions of 1848 as a democratic revolution, which in the long run ensured liberty, equality, and fraternity, Marxists denounced 1848 as a betrayal of working-class ideals by a bourgeoisie indifferent to the legitimate demands of the proletariat.
communism: The Bolsheviks defeated the White Army and won the Russian Civil War.
communism: There were also many developments in libertarian Marxism, especially during the 1960s with the New Left.
communism: It supported another communist revolution in the Soviet Union and proletarian internationalism.
communism: Some uphold the works of Stalin and Mao Zedong and some the works of Stalin while rejecting Mao and universally tend to oppose Trotskyism.
communism: It describes the specific political ideology which Stalin implemented in the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and in a global scale in the Comintern.
communism: Plato, in particular, has been considered as a possible communist or socialist theorist, or as the first author to give communism a serious consideration.
communism: For most Westerners and anti-communist Russians, Stalin is viewed overwhelmingly negatively as a mass murderer; for significant numbers of Russians and Georgians, he is regarded as a great statesman and state-builder.
communism: Mao's government was responsible for vast numbers of deaths with estimates ranging from 40 to 80 million victims through starvation, persecution, prison labour, and mass executions.
communism: The highest income was to be found in Slovenia ($10,663) and Estonia ($9,078) and the lowest in Albania ($1,386) and Tajikistan ($2,730).
communism: JSTOR 4502285..
communism: Comparative Political Studies.
communism: Marxism–Leninism remained after de-Stalinization whereas Stalinism did not.
communism: New International Encyclopedia.
communism: Lindsay, Samuel McCune (1905).
communism: In 19th century Europe, the use of the terms communism and socialism eventually accorded with the cultural attitude of adherents and opponents towards religion.
communism: Its leading role in World War II saw the emergence of the industrialized Soviet Union as a superpower.
communism: Harvard University Press.
communism: Trotskyism overtook the left communists as the main dissident communist current, while more libertarian communisms, dating back to the libertarian Marxist current of council communism, remained important dissident communisms outside the Soviet Union.
communism: Therefore, although consumer welfare was reduced by shortages, the prices households paid for their regular consumption were lower than would have been the case had prices been set at market-clearing levels.
communism: "Communism, Post-Communism, and Moral Education".
communism: There is a movement toward the recognition that historical materialism and dialectical materialism remain the fundamental aspects of all Marxist schools of thought.
communism: The term Stalinism is also used to describe these positions but is often not used by its supporters who opine that Stalin practiced orthodox Marxism and Leninism.
communism: This compared to the US with $20,651 and $16,006 for Germany in the same year.
communism: Marxism–Leninism has been criticized by other communist and Marxist tendencies, which state that Marxist–Leninist states did not establish socialism but rather state capitalism.
communism: Bordigism is a Leninist left-communist current named after Amadeo Bordiga, who has been described as being "more Leninist than Lenin", and considered himself to be a Leninist.
communism: Retrieved 18 August 2021.
communism: ISBN 978-0-226-27341-9.
communism: After 1848, communism came to be primarily associated with Marxism, most specifically embodied in The Communist Manifesto, which proposed a particular type of communism.
communism: Verso Books.
communism: After Stalin's death in 1953, relations with Moscow soured – Mao thought Stalin's successors had betrayed the Communist ideal.
communism: Proponents posit an alleged link between communism, left-wing politics, and socialism with genocide, mass killing, and totalitarianism.
communism: "Communism".
communism: Marxian economics and its proponents view capitalism as economically unsustainable and incapable of improving the living standards of the population due to its need to compensate for falling rates of profit by cutting employee's wages, social benefits, and pursuing military aggression.
communism: Journal of Economic Perspectives.
communism: Shaw, Yu-ming (2019).
communism: However, due to rigid state planning and bureaucracy, the Soviets remained far behind the First World in chemistry, biology, and computer science.
communism: members of the party who are full-time professional revolutionaries, as was conceived by Vladimir Lenin.
communism: Cambridge University Press.
communism: In 1848, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels offered a new definition of communism in The Communist Manifesto.
communism: Meanwhile, the term communism fell out of use during this period.
communism: Communism was seen as a rival of and a threat to Western capitalism for most of the 20th century.
communism: Communism (from Latin  communis 'common, universal') is a political and economic ideology whose goal is the creation of a communist society, a socioeconomic order centered on common ownership of the means of production, distribution, and exchange that allocates products in society based on need.
communism: In the top leadership, it led to a mass purge of senior officials who were accused of taking a "capitalist road", most notably Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping.
communism: The Marxist communist ethos that aims for unity reflects the Christian universalist teaching that humankind is one and that there is only one god who does not discriminate among people.
communism: Within Marxism–Leninism, anti-revisionism is a position which emerged in the 1950s in opposition to the reforms and Khrushchev Thaw of Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev.
communism: Previously, from August to December 1991, all the individual republics, including Russia itself, had seceded from the union.
communism: Many authors have written about excess deaths under Communist states and mortality rates, such as excess mortality in the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin.
communism: A Marxist–Leninist government was also created under Josip Broz Tito in Yugoslavia; Tito's independent policies led to the Tito–Stalin split and expulsion of Yugoslavia from the Cominform in 1948, and Titoism was branded deviationist.
communism: The economies of Eastern Bloc countries had previously experienced stagnation in the 1980s under Communism.
communism: Many commentators on the political right point to the mass deaths under Communist states, claiming them as an indictment of communism.
communism: Marxism–Leninism and its offshoots are the most well-known of these and have been a driving force in international relations during most of the 20th century.
communism: Soviet authorities proved their commitment to Lenin's belief by developing massive networks and research and development organizations.
communism: Different policies were applied in Albania and China, which became more distanced from the Soviet Union.
communism: Nationalists across Russia were seeking independence; previously, the self-proclaimed Ukrainian People's Republic had gone to war with the Bolsheviks, and both the Allies and the Central Powers supported certain anti-Bolshevik forces.
communism: With the fall of the Warsaw Pact after the Revolutions of 1989, which led to the fall of most of the former Eastern Bloc, the Soviet Union was dissolved on 26 December 1991.
communism: He used these terms completely interchangeably.
communism: Stalin eventually succeeded in gaining control of the Soviet regime and Trotskyist attempts to remove Stalin from power resulted in Trotsky's exile from the Soviet Union in 1929.
communism: In March 1921, a workers' uprising broke out in Kronstadt, Petrograd, calling for more democratic policies and a reduction of repressive policies, but it was ultimately crushed by the Red Army.
communism: Marxist communist theoretician Karl Kautsky, who popularized Marxist communism in Western Europe more than any other thinker apart from Engels, published Thomas More and His Utopia, a work about More, whose ideas could be regarded as "the foregleam of Modern Socialism" according to Kautsky.
communism: John (December 2005).
communism: ISBN 978-0-81296-864-4.
communism: Since 1957, communists have been frequently voted into power in the Indian state of Kerala.
communism: A Dictionary of 20th Century Communism (hardcover ed.).
communism: In their words, the Hutterites "established in their communities a rigorous system of Ordnungen, which were codes of rules and regulations that governed all aspects of life and ensured a unified perspective.
communism: Most anarcho-communists view anarchist communism as a way of reconciling the opposition between the individual and society.
communism: Council communists support a workers' democracy, produced through a federation of workers' councils.
communism: The following October Revolution in Russia set the conditions for the rise to state power of Vladimir Lenin's Bolsheviks, which was the first time any avowedly communist party reached that position.
communism: Eurocommunists tended to have a larger attachment to liberty and democracy than their Marxist–Leninist counterparts.
communism: Some scholars in Western Europe have rejected the comparison of the two regimes and the equation of their crimes.
communism: However, the Bolsheviks suffered a major defeat at the Battle of Warsaw during the Polish-Soviet War, and Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia also won their wars of independence against the Bolsheviks, all of which dampened the Bolshevik leadership's optimism about a world revolution.
communism: Mao's goal was to purify communism by removing pro-capitalists and traditionalists by imposing Maoist orthodoxy within the Chinese Communist Party.
communism: As Marxism has developed over time into various branches and schools of thought, no single, definitive Marxist theory exists.
