coral_reef: Coral belongs to the class Anthozoa in the animal phylum Cnidaria, which includes sea anemones and jellyfish.
coral_reef: Hippuritida, an extinct order of bivalves known as rudists, were major reef-building organisms during the Cretaceous.
coral_reef: The short-tailed albatross is the rarest, with fewer than 2,200 surviving after excessive feather hunting in the late 19th century.
coral_reef: Researchers conducted an experiment near Ticao Island in the Philippines in 2013 where several substrates in varying complexities were laid in the nearby degraded reefs.
coral_reef: The reproductive cells are found on the mesenteries, membranes that radiate inward from the layer of tissue that lines the stomach cavity.
coral_reef: This keeps the warm surface waters floating above the cooler, deeper waters.
coral_reef: Although the Great Barrier Reef formed along a continental shelf, and not around a volcanic island, Darwin's principles apply.
coral_reef: Coral reef ecosystems contain distinct zones that host different kinds of habitats.
coral_reef: The warmer water is separated from deeper, cooler water by a stable thermocline, where the temperature makes a rapid change.
coral_reef: Bermuda coral species represent a subset of those found in the greater Caribbean.
coral_reef: They resemble the later stages of a fringing reef with its lagoon, but differ from the latter mainly in size and origin.
coral_reef: This method is based primarily on the chance that the zooxanthellae will acquire the specific trait that will enable them to better survive in warmer waters.
coral_reef: A public awareness plan provides education on the "rainforests of the sea" and how people can reduce carbon emissions.
coral_reef: Furthermore, in some cases they can generate local conflict, due to a lack of community participation, clashing views of the government and fisheries, effectiveness of the area and funding.
coral_reef: Due to its straightforward process and substantial evidence of the technique having a significant effect on coral reef growth, coral nurseries became the most widespread and arguably the most effective method for coral restoration.
coral_reef: Coral reefs also have a very high degree of microorganism diversity compared to other environments.
coral_reef: Algae can sometimes out-compete the coral for space.
coral_reef: Their lagoons can be several kilometres wide and 30 to 70 metres deep.
coral_reef: After two years, O.
coral_reef: It is subject to surge and tides.
coral_reef: Restoring reefs is significantly cheaper than building artificial breakwaters in tropical environments.
coral_reef: The vicinity of the anode and cathode provides a high pH environment, which inhibits the growth of competing filamentous and fleshy algae.
coral_reef: To help combat ocean acidification, several countries have enacted laws to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide.
coral_reef: However, many other organisms living in the reef community contribute skeletal calcium carbonate in the same manner as corals.
coral_reef: A lagoon may form in the middle of a platform reef.
coral_reef: faveolata would have grown at least ten times its original size.
coral_reef: While some sources find only three, Thomas lists "Four major forms of large-scale coral reefs" – the fringing reef, barrier reef, atoll and table reef based on Stoddart, D.R.
coral_reef: With the deterioration of global reefs, fish nurseries, biodiversity, coastal development, livelihoods, and natural beauty, these are under threat.
coral_reef: Macroalgae can overgrow corals, shade them, block recruitment, release biochemicals that can hinder spawning, and potentially form bacteria harmful to corals.
coral_reef: Technology is becoming more popular in the coral farming process.
coral_reef: In return, as an example of mutualism, the corals shelter the zooxanthellae, averaging one million for every cubic centimetre of coral, and provide a constant supply of the carbon dioxide they need for photosynthesis.
coral_reef: A few species change sex as they grow.
coral_reef: Bermuda's coral reefs provide economic benefits to the Island worth, on average, $722 million per year, based on six key ecosystem services, according to Sarkis et al.
coral_reef: These nutrients are necessary for plant growth, but in the tropics, they do not return directly to the surface.
coral_reef: The best known and largest example of a barrier reef is the Australian Great Barrier Reef.
coral_reef: Reefs grow unaided on marine structures such as oil rigs.
coral_reef: Macroalgae, or seaweed, have the potential to cause reef collapse because they can outcompete many coral species.
coral_reef: The global economic value of coral reefs has been estimated to be between US$29.8 billion and $375 billion per year.
coral_reef: These organisms live within the polyps' tissues and provide organic nutrients that nourish the polyp in the form of glucose, glycerol, and amino acids.
coral_reef: Coral reefs form some of the world's most productive ecosystems, providing complex and varied marine habitats that support a wide range of organisms.
coral_reef: They observed little to no damage to any of the colonies during transport, and no coral reef mortality at the transplant site.
coral_reef: The reef drop-off is, for its first 50 m, habitat for reef fish who find shelter on the cliff face and plankton in the water nearby.
coral_reef: When the net production by reef-building corals no longer keeps pace with relative sea level, and the reef structure permanently drowns, a Darwin Point is reached.
coral_reef: This leads to the idea that, evolutionarily, clade A is more UV resistant and thermally resistant than the other clades.
coral_reef: They transplanted them with the help of United States Army divers to a site relatively close to the channel.
coral_reef: However, shell fragments and the remains of coralline algae such as the green-segmented genus Halimeda can add to the reef's ability to withstand damage from storms and other threats.
coral_reef: Usually sandy, the floor often supports seagrass meadows, which are important foraging areas for reef fish.
coral_reef: Furthermore, in locations unfavorable to the growth of corals, coralline algae can be the primary builders of an algal reef.
coral_reef: The irregular structure of coral reef bathymetry may enhance mixing, producing pockets of cooler water and variable nutrient levels.
coral_reef: Invertebrates and epiphytic algae provide much of the food for other organisms.
coral_reef: Climate scientists often use this technique to infer a region's paleoclimate.
coral_reef: The economic cost of destroying one square kilometre of coral reef over 25 years has been estimated at between $137,000 and $1,200,000.
coral_reef: An individual polyp uses both reproductive modes within its lifetime.
coral_reef: In older fringing reefs, with outer regions pushed far out into the sea, the inner part is deepened by erosion and eventually forms a lagoon.
coral_reef: Greenhouse gas emissions present a broader threat through sea temperature rise and sea level rise, resulting in widespread coral bleaching and loss of coral cover.
coral_reef: It can produce mycosporine-like amino acids that are UV-resistant, using a derivative of glycerin to absorb UV radiation, thereby allowing them to better adapt to warmer water temperatures.
coral_reef: Coral reefs are rare along the west coasts of the Americas and Africa, due primarily to upwelling and strong cold coastal currents that reduce water temperatures in these areas (the Humboldt, Benguela, and Canary Currents, respectively).
coral_reef: A barrier reef can encircle an island, and once the island sinks below sea level, a roughly circular atoll of growing coral continues to keep up with the sea level, forming a central lagoon.
coral_reef: Corals and Coral Reefs overview at the Smithsonian Ocean Portal
About Corals Archived 26 December 2013 at the Wayback Machine Australian Institute of Marine Science.
coral_reef: This plan consists of adaptive management strategies, including reducing carbon footprint.
coral_reef: One such point exists at the northwestern end of the Hawaiian Archipelago; see Evolution of Hawaiian volcanoes#Coral atoll stage.
coral_reef: However, this method still requires removing corals from existing reefs.
coral_reef: Internally fertilized eggs develop in the polyp for a period ranging from days to weeks.
coral_reef: Deforestation can also cause erosion, which flows into the ocean, contributing to ocean acidification.
coral_reef: Movement is generally created by tides and wind.
coral_reef: However, reefs that experience a severe bleaching event become resistant to future heat-induced bleaching, due to rapid directional selection.
coral_reef: Lucia, Tobago, Belize, and the Dominican Republic.
coral_reef: Although their mineral deposition rates are much slower than corals, they are more tolerant of rough wave-action, and so help to create a protective crust over those parts of the reef subjected to the most significant forces by waves, such as the reef front facing the open ocean.
coral_reef: Runoff can carry nitrogen and phosphorus, which promote excess algae growth.
coral_reef: They also strengthen the reef structure by depositing limestone in sheets over the reef surface.
coral_reef: It begins with the establishment of a nursery where operators can observe and care for coral fragments.
coral_reef: Most coral reefs exist in waters less than 50 m deep.
coral_reef: The size, shape, and relative abundance of these patches change from year to year in response to the various factors that favor one type of patch over another.
coral_reef: They are variable in size, ranging from a few hundred metres to many kilometres across.
coral_reef: Barrier reefs are also found on the coasts of Providencia, Mayotte, the Gambier Islands, on the southeast coast of Kalimantan, on parts of the coast of Sulawesi, southeastern New Guinea and the south coast of the Louisiade Archipelago.
coral_reef: They are usually less than 100 metres wide, but some are hundreds of metres wide.
coral_reef: For example, a study investigating the success of a small number of MPAs in Indonesia, the Philippines, and Papua New Guinea found no significant differences between the MPAs and unprotected sites.
coral_reef: Others have tectonic origins where plate movements lifted the deep ocean floor.
coral_reef: The idea is that when adult and offspring corals are exposed to stressors, the zooxanthellae will gain a mutation.
coral_reef: Human activities that threaten coral include coral mining, bottom trawling, and the digging of canals and accesses into islands and bays, all of which can damage marine ecosystems if not done sustainably.
coral_reef: "Coral Reef Factsheet".
coral_reef: A ring of reefs results, which encloses a lagoon.
coral_reef: Each reef is made up of irregular patches of algae, sessile invertebrates, and bare rock and sand.
coral_reef: Sea turtles, particularly hawksbill sea turtles, feed on sponges.
coral_reef: Warming temperatures or hurricanes can still disrupt or even kill nursery corals.
coral_reef: Shortly after, they discovered that these microfragments fused with other microfragments from the same parent coral.
coral_reef: Simply having many structures on the ocean floor is not enough to form coral reefs.
coral_reef: Water can pass through coral reefs in various ways, including current rings, surface waves, internal waves, and tidal changes.
coral_reef: The majority of these islands are volcanic in origin.
coral_reef: Crassostrea virginica were once abundant in Chesapeake Bay and shorelines bordering the Atlantic coastal plain until the late nineteenth century.
coral_reef: Expected damages from flooding would double, and costs from frequent storms would triple without the topmost meter of reefs.
coral_reef: These methods focus on altering the genetics of the zooxanthellae within coral rather than the alternative.
coral_reef: Coral reefs first appeared 485 million years ago, at the dawn of the Early Ordovician, displacing the microbial and sponge reefs of the Cambrian.
coral_reef: Corals are seldom found along the coastline of South Asia—from the eastern tip of India (Chennai) to the Bangladesh and Myanmar borders—as well as along the coasts of northeastern South America and Bangladesh, due to the freshwater release from the Amazon and Ganges Rivers respectively.
coral_reef: Reefs around tropical islands and atolls drop abruptly to great depths and do not have such a floor.
coral_reef: Nudibranchia and sea anemones eat sponges.
coral_reef: Coral reefs often depend on surrounding habitats, such as seagrass meadows and mangrove forests, for nutrients.
coral_reef: Those settling on the reef include many other species, particularly crustaceans and polychaete worms.
coral_reef: list four main reef types that can be clearly illustrated  – the fringing reef, barrier reef, atoll, and "bank or platform reef"—and notes that many other structures exist which do not conform easily to strict definitions, including the "patch reef".
coral_reef: Temperature regimes on coral reefs in the Bahamas and Florida are highly variable, spanning temporal scales from minutes to seasons and spatial scales across depths.
coral_reef: However, all food webs ultimately depend on plants, which serve as primary producers.
coral_reef: When alive, corals are colonies of small animals embedded in calcium carbonate shells.
coral_reef: Coral reefs protect shorelines by absorbing wave energy, and many small islands would not exist without reefs.
coral_reef: There are 420 species of sponges in coral reefs from Indonesia, 486 species in coral reefs from Indian waters, and 1500 species in the Great Barrier Reef from Australia.
coral_reef: These are the precise conditions under which corals flourish.
coral_reef: Inhabitants of Ahus Island, Manus Province, Papua New Guinea, have followed a generations-old practice of restricting fishing in six areas of their reef lagoon.
coral_reef: The algal population consists of turf algae, coralline algae and macro algae.
coral_reef: Sea urchins fed, multiplied, and cleared substrates, leaving areas for coral polyps to anchor and mature.
coral_reef: However, nurseries cannot stop climate stressors.
coral_reef: UNEP, 2007.
coral_reef: Some inhabit tropical continental shelves where cool, nutrient-rich upwelling does not occur, such as the Great Barrier Reef.
coral_reef: The reef face or forereef is the zone above the reef floor or the reef drop-off.
coral_reef: Corals also absorb nutrients, including inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus, directly from water.
coral_reef: Atolls may also be formed by the sinking of the seabed or rising of the sea level.
coral_reef: Atolls are numerous in the South Pacific, where they usually occur in mid-ocean, for example, in the Caroline Islands, the Cook Islands, French Polynesia, the Marshall Islands, and Micronesia.
coral_reef: Reefs grow as polyps and other organisms deposit calcium carbonate, the basis of coral, as a skeletal structure beneath and around themselves, pushing the coral head's top upwards and outwards.
coral_reef: The phytoplankton form the base of the food chain and are eaten by fish and crustaceans.
coral_reef: Floating offshore coral trees or even aquariums are possible locations where corals can grow.
coral_reef: The period from release to settlement lasts only a few days, but some planulae can survive afloat for several weeks.
coral_reef: Darwin predicted that underneath each lagoon would be a bedrock base, the remains of the original volcano.
coral_reef: Most reefs grow best in warm, shallow, clear, sunny, and agitated water.
coral_reef: This vertical breakup of internal waves causes significant diapycnal mixing and turbulence.
coral_reef: Fringing reefs follow coastlines and can extend for many kilometres.
coral_reef: However, the topography of coral reefs is constantly changing.
coral_reef: Bermuda is known for its northernmost coral reef system, located at 32.4°N 64.8°W﻿ / 32.4; -64.8.
coral_reef: Since their emergence 485 million years ago, coral reefs have faced many threats, including disease, predation, invasive species, bioerosion by grazing fish, algal blooms, and geologic hazards.
coral_reef: Growing coral, for example, produces constant change in the fine structure of reefs.
coral_reef: The seaweed Codium isthmocladum reacts to deep water nutrient sources because their tissues have different concentrations of nutrients dependent upon depth.
coral_reef: Most coral reefs are less than 10,000 years old.
coral_reef: Phytoplankton rapidly use nutrients in the surface waters, and in the tropics, these nutrients are not usually replaced because of the thermocline.
coral_reef: Darwin's theory followed from his understanding that coral polyps thrive in the tropics where the water is agitated, but can only live within a limited depth range, starting just below low tide.
coral_reef: Some land-based reptiles intermittently associate with reefs, such as monitor lizards, the marine crocodile and semiaquatic snakes, such as Laticauda colubrina.
coral_reef: It goes without saying that nurseries should be established in areas that are going to maximize growth and minimize mortality.
coral_reef: Coral reefs can reduce wave energy by 97%, helping to prevent loss of life and property damage.
coral_reef: Coral reefs are estimated to cover 284,300 km2 (109,800 sq mi), just under 0.1% of the oceans' surface area.
coral_reef: Rates of regeneration and replication determine the organism's ability to survive.
coral_reef: The final width depends on where the seabed begins to drop steeply.
coral_reef: For example, several sponge species can convert dissolved organic matter (DOM) derived from corals and algae into sponge detritus, which serves as food for species incapable of directly consuming DOM.
coral_reef: Many land use laws aim to reduce CO2 emissions by limiting deforestation.
coral_reef: Sea level on the Great Barrier Reef has not changed significantly in the last 6,000 years.
coral_reef: Since clades B through D are found at deeper depths, they require an elevated light absorption rate to be able to synthesize as much energy.
coral_reef: They are intended to promote responsible fishery management and habitat protection.
coral_reef: The roughness of coral surfaces is key to coral survival in agitated waters.
coral_reef: Well-managed reefs have an average annual yield of 15 tons of seafood per square kilometre.
coral_reef: The three zones are physically and ecologically interconnected.
coral_reef: Their cultural traditions allow line fishing, but no net or spear fishing.
coral_reef: Typical shapes for coral species are named by their resemblance to terrestrial objects such as wrinkled brains, cabbages, table tops, antlers, wire strands, and pillars.
coral_reef: Archived from the original on 9 June 2015.
coral_reef: The effectiveness of MPAs is still debated.
coral_reef: Each clade contributes both benefits and less compatible attributes to the survival of its coral hosts.
coral_reef: Coral reefs flourish in ocean waters that provide few nutrients.
coral_reef: For this, overfishing needs to be stopped, especially fishing on species key to coral reefs, such as parrotfish.
coral_reef: Needle and thread can also attach A-hermatype coral to the substrate.
coral_reef: By removing predators and recruitment obstacles, corals can mature without much hindrance.
coral_reef: Parts of these reefs can reach the surface, forming sandbanks and small islands around which fringing reefs may form.
coral_reef: Polyps are usually tiny, but they can range in size from a pinhead to 12 inches (30 cm) across.
coral_reef: Its discovery was announced in January 2024.
coral_reef: Historically, the Jamaican coast had 90% coral cover and was reduced to 5% in the 1990s.
coral_reef: Seagrass and mangroves supply dead plants and animals that are rich in nitrogen and serve to feed fish and animals from the reef by supplying wood and vegetation.
coral_reef: Protecting networks of diverse and healthy reefs, not only climate refugia, helps ensure the greatest chance of genetic diversity, which is critical for coral to adapt to new climates.
coral_reef: Coral aquaculture, also known as coral farming or coral gardening, is showing promise as a potentially effective tool for restoring coral reefs.
coral_reef: Like an atoll, it is thought that these reefs are formed either as the seabed lowered or the sea level rose.
coral_reef: Large complexity consisted of plots with both human-made substrates (smooth and rough rocks) and a surrounding fence; medium consisted of only the human-made substrates; and small had neither the fence nor substrates.
coral_reef: Atolls are found in the Indian Ocean, for example, in the Maldives, the Chagos Islands, the Seychelles, and around Cocos Island.
coral_reef: Given the current state of reefs, this method should generally be avoided if possible.
coral_reef: While internal waves generally have a lower frequency than surface waves, they often form as a single wave that breaks into multiple waves as it hits a slope and moves upward.
coral_reef: Primary macroalgae succeeded the destroyed reefs, and eventually larger, more resilient macroalgae soon took their place as the dominant organism.
coral_reef: Coral stressors can include pollution, warming ocean temperatures, extreme weather events, and overfishing.
coral_reef: Coral Reefs in the South China Sea.
coral_reef: This diversity results in complex food webs, with large predator fish eating smaller forage fish, which eat yet smaller zooplankton, and so on.
coral_reef: They concluded that reef restoration could be done cost-effectively and would yield long-term benefits if protected and maintained.
coral_reef: Incentives are used to reduce vehicle miles traveled, thereby reducing carbon emissions into the atmosphere and lowering dissolved CO2 in the ocean.
coral_reef: The University of Hawaii operates a Coral Reef Assessment and Monitoring Program to help relocate and restore coral reefs in Hawaii.
coral_reef: To improve the management of coastal coral reefs, the World Resources Institute (WRI) developed and published tools to calculate the value of coral reef-related tourism, shoreline protection, and fisheries, partnering with five Caribbean countries.
coral_reef: It formed the world's largest barrier reef, 300–1,000 m (980–3,280 ft) from shore, stretching for 2,000 km (1,200 mi).
coral_reef: After fusion occurs, the reef will act as a single organism rather than several independent reefs.
coral_reef: Atolls or atoll reefs are a more or less circular or continuous barrier reef that extends all the way around a lagoon without a central island.
coral_reef: The Raja Ampat Islands in Indonesia's Southwest Papua province offer the highest known marine diversity.
coral_reef: The report shows that healthier Caribbean reefs are those with large, healthy populations of parrotfish.
coral_reef: The lucky few planulae that successfully attach to the substrate then compete for food and space.
coral_reef: Like the fringing reef itself, they run parallel to the coast.
coral_reef: Consequently, these two species can be considered keystone species in reef environments due to their role in protecting reefs.
coral_reef: About 500 million people benefit from ecosystem services provided by coral reefs.
coral_reef: Without access to nutrients brought by rough coral surfaces, even the most effective recycling would not suffice.
coral_reef: The varying pigments in different species of zooxanthellae give them an overall brown or golden-brown appearance and give brown corals their colors.
coral_reef: Bank reef – isolated, flat-topped reef larger than a patch reef and usually on mid-shelf regions and linear or semi-circular in shape; a type of platform reef.
coral_reef: The drop-off zone primarily occurs around oceanic islands and atolls.
coral_reef: Further, the sun shines year-round in the tropics, warming the surface layer, making it less dense than subsurface layers.
coral_reef: The Caribbean Coral Reefs – Status Report 1970–2012 states that coral decline may be reduced or even reversed.
coral_reef: Coral gardens generally take on safe forms, no matter where you go.
coral_reef: Under conventional means, both corals would have required decades to reach the same size.
coral_reef: Marine protected areas (MPAs) are areas designated because they provide various kinds of protection to ocean and/or estuarine areas.
coral_reef: Aside from providing nutrition, sponges also offer microhabitats to various invertebrates and some fish species.
coral_reef: For 100-year storm events, flood damages would increase by 91% to $US 272 billion without the top meter.
coral_reef: However, this method would only apply to younger corals for now, because previous experiments manipulating zooxanthellae communities at later life stages have all failed.
coral_reef: Clade D has been observed to be high temperature-tolerant, and has a higher rate of survival than clades B and C during modern bleaching events.
coral_reef: After one year of their study, researchers visited the sites and found that many supported local fisheries.
coral_reef: The great number and diversity of hiding places in coral reefs, i.e., refuges, are the most important factors driving the high diversity and high biomass of organisms in coral reefs.
coral_reef: After one month, researchers found a positive correlation between structural complexity and larval recruitment rates.
coral_reef: Designating a reef as a biosphere reserve, marine park, national monument, or world heritage site can offer protection.
coral_reef: At long distances sounds from existing reefs are likely important, while at short distances chemical compounds become important.
coral_reef: Coral seeds are grown in nurseries, then replanted on the reef.
coral_reef: Formation takes considerably longer than for a fringing reef; thus, barrier reefs are much rarer.
coral_reef: The largest and strongest corals grew in parts of the reef exposed to the most violent surf, and corals were weakened or absent where loose sediment accumulated.
coral_reef: The camera uses computer vision and machine learning algorithms to detect and count individual coral babies, and to track their growth and health in real time.
coral_reef: The last method is to genetically modify the zooxanthellae themselves.
coral_reef: Corals respond to stress by "bleaching", or expelling their colorful zooxanthellate endosymbionts.
coral_reef: Pulley Ridge—deepest photosynthetic coral reef, Florida
Numerous reefs around the Maldives
The Philippines coral reef area, the second-largest in Southeast Asia, is estimated at 26,000 square kilometres.
coral_reef: Organisms that die in aquatic environments generally sink to the bottom, where they decompose, which releases nutrients in the form of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K).
coral_reef: A variety of conservation methods applied across marine and terrestrial threatened ecosystems makes coral adaption more likely and effective.
coral_reef: Putnam, and Ruth D.
coral_reef: It is suspected that if predation events had not occurred near the beginning of the experiment O.
coral_reef: The approximately 20,000-year-old Great Barrier Reef offers an example of how coral reefs formed on continental shelves.
coral_reef: Coral Reefs Demonstration Sites in the South China Sea.
coral_reef: The increased growth rates depend entirely on accretion activity.
coral_reef: Efforts to expand the size and number of coral reefs generally involve supplying substrate to allow more corals to find a home.
coral_reef: As sea level rise continued, water topped most of the continental islands.
coral_reef: In 2011, two researchers suggested that "extant marine invertebrates face the same synergistic effects of multiple stressors" that occurred during the end-Permian extinction.
coral_reef: The United States Clean Water Act puts pressure on state governments to monitor and limit run-off of polluted water.
coral_reef: Sometimes called rainforests of the sea, shallow coral reefs form some of Earth's most diverse ecosystems.
coral_reef: Most research has been conducted on clades A–D.
coral_reef: Regardless, these areas are slowly recovering with the aid of sea urchin grazing.
coral_reef: Consequently, coral farming quickly replaced previously used transplantation methods, which involved physically moving sections or entire coral colonies to a new area.
coral_reef: Restoration projects must consider the complexity of the substrates they are creating for future reefs.
coral_reef: Like sea level rise, a rapidly subsiding bottom can overwhelm coral growth, killing the coral and the reef, due to what is called coral drowning.
coral_reef: No environmental effects were seen from the transplantation process, recreational activities were not decreased, and no scenic areas were affected.
coral_reef: Such mixtures are visible in structures such as Eniwetok Atoll.
coral_reef: Under the influence of an electric field, corals exhibit increased growth rates, sizes, and densities.
coral_reef: Coral gardens take advantage of a coral's natural ability to fragment and continue to grow if the fragments can anchor themselves onto new substrates.
coral_reef: Recent human activities present new threats.
coral_reef: Barrier reefs are separated from a mainland or island shore by a deep channel or lagoon.
coral_reef: Usually, three major zones are recognized: the fore reef, the reef crest, and the back reef (also called the reef lagoon).
coral_reef: In The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs, published in 1842, Darwin described how coral reefs were found in some tropical areas but not others, with no obvious cause.
coral_reef: Similarly, as internal waves and bores move vertically, surface-dwelling larval organisms are carried toward the shore.
coral_reef: Several invertebrates, collectively called "cryptofauna", inhabit the coral skeletal substrate itself, either boring into the skeletons (through the process of bioerosion) or living in pre-existing voids and crevices.
coral_reef: Corals with Clade C zooxanthellae are generally vulnerable to heat-induced bleaching, whereas corals with the hardier Clade A or D are generally resistant, as are tougher coral genera like Porites and Montipora.
coral_reef: Terrestrial plants that receive less sunlight because they are found in the undergrowth are analogous to clades B, C, and D.
coral_reef: The release of eggs or planula usually occurs at night and is sometimes in phase with the lunar cycle (three to six days after a full moon).
coral_reef: Fringing reef lagoons can become over 100 metres wide and several metres deep.
coral_reef: There is already research aimed at creating genetically modified corals that can withstand a warming ocean.
coral_reef: Thus, reefs can build up over time as new larvae settle on older individuals.
coral_reef: Waves, grazing fish (such as parrotfish), sea urchins, sponges and other forces and organisms act as bioeroders, breaking down coral skeletons into fragments that settle into spaces in the reef structure or form sandy bottoms in associated reef lagoons.
coral_reef: Corals reproduce both sexually and asexually.
coral_reef: However, concentrating tourism activities via offshore platforms has been shown to limit the spread of coral disease by tourists.
coral_reef: Volcanic and human-made aerosol pollution can modulate regional sea surface temperatures.
coral_reef: This level of environmental variety benefits many coral reef animals, which, for example, may feed on seagrass and use the reefs for protection or breeding.
coral_reef: Australia compiled a Coral Reef Resilience Action Plan.
coral_reef: The third method focuses on selective breeding tactics.
coral_reef: Gates described four levels of human intervention for genetically modifying corals, each increasing in intensity.
coral_reef: Dredging covers corals with sand.
coral_reef: Those that do not have a tolerance for the elevated temperatures experience coral bleaching and eventually mortality.
coral_reef: Typically, corals that are not from the same parent fight and kill nearby corals in an attempt to survive and expand.
coral_reef: In the ocean, these plants are mainly microscopic phytoplankton which drift in the water column.
coral_reef: Sponges eventually excrete nutrients in a form that corals can use.
coral_reef: Atlantic and Caribbean coral reefs account for 7.6%.
coral_reef: In damaged sections of the Great Barrier Reef, loudspeakers playing recordings of healthy reef environments were found to attract fish twice as often as equivalent patches where no sound was played, and also increased species biodiversity by 50%.
coral_reef: Sponge reefs are reefs produced by sea sponges.
coral_reef: The "gardening" process bypasses the early growth stages of corals when they are most at risk of dying.
coral_reef: Because of this relationship, coral reefs grow much faster in clear water, which admits more sunlight.
coral_reef: A boat channel from the island of Oahu to the Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology on Coconut Island was overcrowded with coral reefs.
coral_reef: Direct human pressure on coral reefs should also be reduced, and the inflow of sewage should be minimised.
coral_reef: van Oppen, James K.
coral_reef: Aside from humans, mammals are rare on coral reefs, with visiting cetaceans such as dolphins being the main exception.
coral_reef: A fringing reef forms around an extinct volcanic island as the island and ocean floor subside.
coral_reef: Their usual shape is oval to elongated.
coral_reef: Other pigments, such as reds, blues, and greens, are produced by colored proteins in coral animals.
coral_reef: This has given rise to the ecosystem conundrum, sometimes called "Darwin's paradox": "How can such high production flourish in such nutrient poor conditions?"
Coral reefs support over one-quarter of all marine species.
coral_reef: Coral is farmed by coral farmers whose interests range from reef conservation to increased income.
coral_reef: Most coral reefs were formed after the Last Glacial Period when melting ice caused sea level to rise and flood continental shelves.
coral_reef: The annual global economic value of coral reefs has been estimated at anywhere from US$30–375 billion (1997 and 2003 estimates) to US$2.7 trillion (a 2020 estimate) to US$9.9 trillion (a 2014 estimate).
coral_reef: Waitt Institute.
coral_reef: This means the water is often agitated.
coral_reef: This zone is often the reef's most diverse area.
coral_reef: The world's northernmost individual coral reef is located in the Finlayson Channel, in the inside passage of British Columbia, Canada.
coral_reef: Patch reef – common, isolated, comparatively small reef outcrop, usually within a lagoon or embayment, often circular and surrounded by sand or seagrass.
coral_reef: Many coral reef patches in the channel had been damaged by past dredging.
coral_reef: Recycling reduces the nutrient inputs needed overall to support the community.
coral_reef: Reefs can attenuate waves as well as, or better than, artificial structures designed for coastal defence, such as breakwaters.
coral_reef: Use of zooxanthellae from the previous method would only boost success rates for this method.
coral_reef: However, sea urchin populations are still not recovering as fast as researchers predicted, despite being highly fecund.
coral_reef: In most parts of the ocean, there is little exchange between these layers.
coral_reef: A few species feed directly on corals, while others graze on algae on the reef.
coral_reef: Teams from the Reef Restoration and Adaptation Program (RRAP) have trialled coral-counting technology using a prototype robotic camera.
coral_reef: Decreased oxygen levels can slow down calcification rates, weakening the coral and leaving it more susceptible to disease and degradation.
coral_reef: Each seabird species has specific sites on the atoll where they nest.
coral_reef: They occupy less than 0.1% of the world's ocean area, about half the area of France.
coral_reef: Coral and calcareous algae provide complex habitats and areas that offer protection, such as cracks and crevices.
coral_reef: The Belize study estimated the value of reef and mangrove services at $395–559 million annually.
coral_reef: This water movement disrupts the relatively stable thermocline that usually exists between warm shallow water and deeper colder water.
coral_reef: Development stopped at the barrier reef stage, since Australia is not about to submerge.
coral_reef: Coral polyps do not photosynthesize, but have a symbiotic relationship with microscopic algae (dinoflagellates) of the genus Symbiodinium, commonly referred to as zooxanthellae.
coral_reef: In the event of UV or thermal damage, if and when repair occurs, it will increase the likelihood of survival of the host and symbiont.
coral_reef: Platform reefs are typically situated within atolls, where they adopt the name "patch reefs" and often span a diameter of just a few dozen meters.
coral_reef: Marine birds, such as herons, gannets, pelicans and boobies, feed on reef fish.
coral_reef: Warming oceans are forcing corals to adapt to unprecedented temperatures.
coral_reef: As other chemical elements present in corals become incorporated into the calcium carbonate deposits, aragonite is formed.
coral_reef: On a larger scale, tropical storms may knock out large sections of reef and cause boulders in sandy areas to move.
coral_reef: This new technology, known as "fusion," has been shown to grow coral heads in just 2 years, rather than the typical 25–75 years.
coral_reef: In the wake of these events, massive damage was caused to both the reefs and the sea urchin population across Jamaican reefs and into the Caribbean Sea.
coral_reef: These occur in countries that protect parrotfish and other species, like sea urchins.
coral_reef: When waves pass over shallow areas, they shoal, as shown in the adjacent diagram.
coral_reef: Different species may regularly inhabit the same hideouts in a reef at different times of day.
coral_reef: With elevated absorption rates at UV wavelengths, these phylotypes are more prone to coral bleaching than the shallow clade A.
coral_reef: The less water movement, the better the chance for fertilization.
coral_reef: During this period, ocean temperatures and saline levels—which corals are sensitive to—were higher than they are today, which may have contributed to the success of rudist reefs.
coral_reef: Measurements of the oxygen isotopic composition of the aragonitic skeleton of coral reefs, such as Porites, can indicate changes in sea surface temperature and sea surface salinity conditions during the growth of the coral.
coral_reef: Healthy tropical coral reefs grow horizontally from 1 to 3 cm (0.39 to 1.18 in) per year, and grow vertically anywhere from 1 to 25 cm (0.39 to 9.84 in) per year; however, they grow only at depths shallower than 150 m (490 ft) because of their need for sunlight, and cannot grow above sea level.
coral_reef: The world's southernmost coral reef is at Lord Howe Island, in the Pacific Ocean off the east coast of Australia.
coral_reef: Reef-building or hermatypic corals live only in the photic zone (above 70 m), the depth to which sufficient sunlight penetrates the water.
coral_reef: By 13,000 years ago, sea level had risen to 60 m (200 ft) lower than at present, and many hills of the coastal plains had become continental islands.
coral_reef: Oyster reefs are dense aggregations of oysters living in colonial communities.
coral_reef: In large restoration projects, propagated hermatypic coral on substrate can be secured with metal pins, superglue, or milliput.
coral_reef: The off-reef floor is the shallow sea floor surrounding a reef.
coral_reef: UNEP/GEF/SCS Technical Publication No.
coral_reef: Plants form the base of the food chain and need sunlight and nutrients to grow.
coral_reef: For example, Midway Atoll in Hawaii supports nearly three million seabirds, including two-thirds (1.5 million) of the global population of Laysan albatross, and one-third of the global population of black-footed albatross.
coral_reef: In Australia, the Great Barrier Reef is protected by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, and is the subject of much legislation, including a biodiversity action plan.
coral_reef: Madeleine J.
coral_reef: Healthy reefs can produce up to 35 tons of fish per square kilometre each year, but damaged reefs produce much less.
coral_reef: Over time, the island erodes away and sinks below sea level.
coral_reef: As communities established themselves, the reefs grew upward, keeping pace with rising sea levels.
coral_reef: The entire Maldives consists of 26 atolls.
coral_reef: The northernmost coral reef on Earth is located near Eilat, Israel.
coral_reef: Hexactinellid sponge reefs were first identified in the Middle Triassic (245–208 million years ago).
coral_reef: Other regionally specific names for these structures include oyster beds and oyster banks.
coral_reef: High-end satellite technology can monitor reef conditions.
coral_reef: As of April 2011, published working papers covered St.
coral_reef: An estimated 197 million people who live both below 10 m elevation and within 50 km of a reef consequently may receive risk reduction benefits from reefs.
coral_reef: faveolata had grown 6.5x its original size while M.
coral_reef: A common feature of this forereef zone is spur and groove formations that serve to transport sediment downslope.
coral_reef: By using this method, Mote Marine Laboratory successfully generated 25,000 corals within a single year, subsequently transplanting 10,000 of them into the Florida Keys.
coral_reef: Reefs that rose too slowly could become drowned, without sufficient light.
coral_reef: Clades B and C are found more frequently in deeper water, which may explain their higher vulnerability to increased temperatures.
coral_reef: The light is sufficient for photosynthesis by the symbiotic zooxanthellae, and agitated water brings plankton to feed the coral.
coral_reef: Parrotfish are a prime example of reef caretakers.
coral_reef: Where the underlying earth allows, corals grow along the coast to form fringing reefs, which can eventually become barrier reefs.
coral_reef: Aggregations of eggs, larval organisms, and plankton on reefs respond to deep water intrusions.
coral_reef: Substrate materials include discarded vehicle tires, scuttled ships, subway cars, and formed concrete, such as reef balls.
coral_reef: Most coral reefs are built from stony corals, whose polyps cluster in groups.
coral_reef: Where the bottom is rising, fringing reefs can grow around the coast, but coral raised above sea level dies.
coral_reef: The times of maximum reef development were in the Middle Cambrian (513–501 Ma), Devonian (416–359 Ma) and Carboniferous (359–299 Ma), owing to extinct order Rugosa corals, and Late Cretaceous (100–66 Ma) and Neogene (23 Ma–present), owing to order Scleractinia corals.
coral_reef: Although corals exist both in temperate and tropical waters, shallow-water reefs form only in a zone extending from approximately 30° N to 30° S of the equator.
coral_reef: This method was first tested by Baruch Rinkevich in 1995 which found success at the time.
coral_reef: Spawn disperse over a large area.
coral_reef: A fringing reef, also called a shore reef, is directly attached to a shore, or borders it with an intervening narrow, shallow channel or lagoon.
coral_reef: There are eight clades of Symbiodinium phylotypes.
coral_reef: Subsequent research supported this hypothesis.
coral_reef: They become havens for marine life, protecting them from waves and storms.
coral_reef: Waves breaking on the extremely rough edges of corals disrupt the boundary layer, allowing the corals access to passing nutrients.
coral_reef: Some platform reefs of the northern Mascarenes are several thousand kilometres from the mainland.
coral_reef: Corals reproduce sexually by either internal or external fertilization.
coral_reef: Although deep water corals can form reefs, little is known about them.
coral_reef: By today's standards, coral farming has evolved into various forms, but it still aims to cultivate corals.
coral_reef: Before the 1980s, Jamaica's reefs were thriving and well cared for; however, this all changed after Hurricane Allen occurred in 1980 and an unknown disease spread across the Caribbean.
coral_reef: Each photosynthetic organism has a specific level of sensitivity to photodamage to compounds needed for survival, such as proteins.
coral_reef: Archaeocyatha, an extinct clade of sponges, were the planet's first reef-building animals and are an index fossil for the Lower Cambrian worldwide.
coral_reef: Many corals extend their tentacles at night to catch zooplankton that pass near.
coral_reef: Spawning is most successful when there is little variation between high and low tide.
coral_reef: The larvae are vulnerable to predation and environmental conditions.
coral_reef: Both biomass and individual fish sizes are significantly larger than in places where fishing is unrestricted.
coral_reef: Retrieved 8 June 2015.
coral_reef: Corals that rely on zooxanthellae can die when the water becomes too deep for their symbionts to adequately photosynthesize, due to decreased light exposure.
coral_reef: Corals rapidly colonize and grow on these coated structures.
coral_reef: Corals Orbicella faveolata and Montastraea cavernosa were outplanted off the Florida's shores in several microfragment arrays.
coral_reef: In coral reefs and lagoons, producers include phytoplankton, seaweed, and coralline algae, especially small types called turf algae, which transfer nutrients to corals.
coral_reef: The reefs surrounding islands form when islands subside into the ocean, and atolls form when an island subsides below the surface of the sea.
coral_reef: Other major examples are the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System and the New Caledonian Barrier Reef.
coral_reef: Nighttime predators such as cardinalfish and squirrelfish hide during the day, while damselfish, surgeonfish, triggerfish, wrasses and parrotfish hide from eels and sharks.
coral_reef: Coral reefs are also found in the deep sea away from continental shelves, around oceanic islands and atolls.
coral_reef: Some platform reefs of the Laccadives are U-shaped, due to wind and water flow.
coral_reef: Unlike fringing and barrier reefs, which extend only seaward, platform reefs grow in all directions.
coral_reef: Most importantly, reefs recycle nutrients, which happens much less in the open ocean.
coral_reef: While attaching the coral to the transplant site, they found that coral placed on hard rock grew well, including on the wires connecting it to the site.
coral_reef: When preferred mutations are acquired, the genetically modified zooxanthellae will be introduced to an aposymbiotic polyp, and a new coral will be produced.
coral_reef: As little as 2% of the original sea urchin population survived the disease.
coral_reef: The two main variables determining the geomorphology, or shape, of coral reefs are the nature of the substrate on which they rest, and the history of the change in sea level relative to that substrate.
coral_reef: Phylotype A is found more in the shallow waters.
coral_reef: Altogether, 17 species of seabirds live on Midway.
coral_reef: Similar rapid adaptation may protect coral reefs from global warming.
coral_reef: Saving healthy corals from eroding substrates or reefs doomed to collapse could be a significant advantage of using transplantation.
coral_reef: Once selected, corals would be reared and exposed to simulated stressors in a laboratory.
coral_reef: If the land subsides slowly, the fringing reefs keep pace by growing upward on a base of older, dead coral, forming a barrier reef that encloses a lagoon between the reef and the land.
coral_reef: The initial stage of a fringing reef.
coral_reef: Fringing reefs are initially formed on the shore at the low water level and expand seawards as they grow in size.
coral_reef: Reefs are formed of colonies of coral polyps held together by calcium carbonate.
coral_reef: That genus "with poorly buffered respiratory physiology and calcareous shells", such as corals, was particularly vulnerable.
coral_reef: The Indo-Pacific region (including the Red Sea, Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia and the Pacific) account for 91.9% of this total.
coral_reef: Reef life and oceanic processes create opportunities for the exchange of seawater, sediment, nutrients, and marine life.
coral_reef: Southeast Asia accounts for 32.3% of that figure, while the Pacific, including Australia, accounts for 40.8%.
coral_reef: Increased atmospheric CO2 levels contribute to ocean acidification, which in turn damages coral reefs.
coral_reef: About coral reefs Living Reefs Foundation, Bermuda
"Caribbean Coral Reefs – Status Report 1970-2012" by the IUCN.
coral_reef: Spalding et al.
coral_reef: After a location has been determined, collection and cultivation can occur.
coral_reef: This has significant biological importance to cascading effects of food chains in coral reef ecosystems and may provide yet another key to unlocking the paradox.
coral_reef: The reef surface is the shallowest part of the reef.
coral_reef: This technology, led by QUT, is intended for use during annual coral spawning events and will provide researchers with control not currently possible when mass-producing corals.
coral_reef: Platform reefs, variously called bank or table reefs, can form on the continental shelf, as well as in the open ocean, in fact anywhere where the seabed rises close enough to the surface of the ocean to enable the growth of zooxanthemic, reef-forming corals.
coral_reef: These include coralline algae, some sponges and bivalves.
coral_reef: The age of living reef structure is estimated to be between 6,000 and 8,000 years.
coral_reef: Measures to achieve this could include restricting coastal settlement, development, and tourism.
coral_reef: Coral heads consist of accumulations of individual animals called polyps, arranged in diverse shapes.
coral_reef: A coral reef is an underwater ecosystem characterized by reef-building corals.
coral_reef: Increased nutrient levels can be a result of sewage or chemical fertilizer runoff.
coral_reef: As an alternative to transplanting coral themselves, juvenile fish can also be encouraged to relocate to existing coral reefs by auditory simulation.
coral_reef: Ostrea angasi is a species of flat oyster that has also formed large reefs in South Australia.
coral_reef: Corals get up to 90% of their nutrients from their symbionts.
coral_reef: During this process, the larvae may use several cues to find a suitable settlement site.
coral_reef: Because of this, the university decided to relocate some of the coral.
coral_reef: Arrival of cool, nutrient-rich water from depths due to internal waves and tidal bores has been linked to growth rates of suspension feeders and benthic algae  as well as plankton and larval organisms.
coral_reef: Yet, they provide a home for at least 25% of all marine species, including fish, mollusks, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians.
coral_reef: Researchers are investigating the use of native collector urchins, Tripneustes gratilla, for their potential as biocontrol agents to mitigate the spread of invasive algae species on coral reefs.
coral_reef: Such contributions to their habitats' resources are significant along Australia's Great Barrier Reef but relatively minor in the Caribbean.
coral_reef: Coral larvae cannot settle on sand; they can only build on existing reefs or compatible hard surfaces, such as rock or concrete.
coral_reef: Oyster larvae require a hard substrate or surface to attach to, which includes the shells of old or dead oysters.
coral_reef: Animals boring into the rock include sponges, bivalve mollusks, and sipunculans.
coral_reef: Eventually, corals were able to recover in areas where sea urchin populations were increasing.
coral_reef: It is unknown whether or not the mysterious disease is still present and preventing sea urchin populations from rebounding.
coral_reef: 37 species of scleractinian corals inhabit such an environment around Larak Island.
coral_reef: The fringing reefs of the Red Sea are "some of the best developed in the world" and occur along all its shores except off sandy bays.
coral_reef: Above all, the offshore outer reef edge formed in open water rather than next to a shoreline.
coral_reef: Southeast Asia's coral reef fisheries alone yield about $2.4 billion in seafood annually.
coral_reef: They also often ban fish trapping and spearfishing.
coral_reef: This event supports an early restoration idea of cultivating and releasing sea urchins into reefs to prevent algal overgrowth.
coral_reef: Turbulent water thereby promotes reef growth.
coral_reef: Shallow tropical coral reefs have declined by 50% since 1950, partly because they are sensitive to water conditions.
coral_reef: The presence of coral reefs at this high latitude is due to the proximity of the Gulf Stream.
coral_reef: Transplantation has seen success in the past, and decades of experiments have led to a high success and survival rate.
coral_reef: Coral reefs typically produce 5–10 grams of carbon per square meter per day (gC·m−2·day−1) biomass.
coral_reef: However, reefs in the Persian Gulf have adapted to temperatures of 13 °C (55 °F) in winter and 38 °C (100 °F) in summer.
coral_reef: Others are found in the deep ocean surrounding islands or as atolls, such as in the Maldives.
coral_reef: The first method is to induce acclimatization of the first generation of corals.
coral_reef: Over 4,000 species of fish inhabit coral reefs.
coral_reef: Grazing pressure on invasive algae needed to be increased to prevent regrowth.
coral_reef: They are populated by over 900 reef fish species and 400 scleractinian coral species, 12 of which are endemic.
coral_reef: Chemicals in sunscreens may awaken latent viral infections in zooxanthellae and impact reproduction.
coral_reef: Subsequent development produces a tiny larva, known as a planula.
coral_reef: Some species of sea urchins, such as Diadema antillarum, can play a pivotal part in preventing algae from overrunning reefs.
coral_reef: For example, Belize's barrier reef, Sian Ka'an, the Galapagos islands, Great Barrier Reef, Henderson Island, Palau and Papahānaumokuākea Marine National Monument are world heritage sites.
coral_reef: Tropical corals do not grow at depths of over 50 meters (160 ft).
coral_reef: The WRI was "making sure that the study results support improved coastal policies and management planning".
coral_reef: Some sea urchins (such as Diadema antillarum) eat these algae and could thus decrease the risk of algal encroachment.
coral_reef: Sponges live in the crevices of reefs.
coral_reef: National Reports on Coral Reefs in the Coastal Waters of the South China Sea.
coral_reef: This zone occurs next to reefs on continental shelves.
coral_reef: They are usually formed from fringing reefs around volcanic islands.
coral_reef: Biorock is a substrate produced by a patented process that runs low-voltage electrical currents through seawater to cause dissolved minerals to precipitate onto steel structures.
coral_reef: Barrier reefs and atolls do not usually form complete circles but are broken in places by storms.
coral_reef: Sponges with photosynthesizing endosymbionts also produce up to three times more oxygen, as well as more organic matter than they consume.
coral_reef: These shapes can depend on the life history of the coral, like light exposure and wave action, and events such as breakages.
coral_reef: They are most commonly found at shallow depths in tropical waters, but deep water and cold water coral reefs exist on smaller scales in other areas.
coral_reef: Historically, algae growth was controlled by herbivorous fish and sea urchins.
coral_reef: Nancy Knowlton, iBioSeminars, 2011.
coral_reef: They are efficient filter feeders, and in the Red Sea they consume about 60% of the phytoplankton that drifts by.
coral_reef: – Video on YouTube, featuring the report.
coral_reef: cavernosa had grown nearly twice its size.
coral_reef: From 2009 to 2018, coral reefs worldwide declined 14%.
coral_reef: He theorized that uplift and subsidence of Earth's oceanic crust beneath the oceans formed the atolls.
coral_reef: State and federal governments also regulate land activities that affect coastal erosion.
coral_reef: Reefs are always built by the combined efforts of these different phyla, with other organisms leading reef-building in other geological periods.
coral_reef: Significant coral reefs include:
coral_reef: Coral reefs deliver ecosystem services for tourism, fisheries, and shoreline protection.
coral_reef: Darwin set out a sequence of three stages in atoll formation.
coral_reef: Similarly, Stromatoporoidea was another extinct clade of reef-building sponges.
coral_reef: Hexactinellid sponges are known to form reefs off the coast of British Columbia, southeast Alaska, and Washington state.
coral_reef: Reefs, in turn, protect mangroves and seagrass from waves and produce sediment in which the mangroves and seagrass can root.
coral_reef: Oliver, Hollie M.
coral_reef: The surface of the fringe reef generally remains at the same height: just below the waterline.
coral_reef: A large-scale systematic study of the Jarvis Island coral community, which experienced 10 El Niño-coincident coral bleaching events from 1960 to 2016, found that the reef recovered from near-total mortality after severe events.
coral_reef: Without their symbionts, coral growth would be too slow to form significant reef structures.
coral_reef: Fortunately, researchers have taken it upon themselves to develop a new field, coral restoration, in the 1970s–1980s
coral_reef: Reefs discovered in Hecate Strait, British Columbia, have grown to up to 7 kilometres long and 20 metres high.
coral_reef: It can be considered as a type of platform reef  or as features of fringing reefs, atolls, and barrier reefs.
coral_reef: Coral that loses a significant fraction of its zooxanthellae becomes white (or sometimes pastel shades in corals that are pigmented with their own proteins) and is said to be bleached, a condition which, unless corrected, can kill the coral.
coral_reef: In some situations, as in the Phoenix Islands Protected Area, MPAs provide revenue to locals.
coral_reef: Researchers found that native collector urchins were a reasonable candidate for algae biocontrol to extirpate the remaining invasive algae from the reef.
coral_reef: Reef biomass is positively related to species diversity.
coral_reef: The patches may be surrounded by a ring of reduced seagrass cover referred to as a grazing halo.
coral_reef: Ribbon reef – long, narrow, possibly winding reef, usually associated with an atoll lagoon and also called a shelf-edge reef or sill reef.
coral_reef: Coralline algae are essential contributors to reef structure.
coral_reef: Unlike sea anemones, corals secrete hard carbonate exoskeletons that support and protect the coral.
coral_reef: The corals could then overgrow the hills, forming cays and reefs.
coral_reef: By the mid-Cretaceous, rudists became the dominant tropical reef-builders, becoming more numerous than scleractinian corals.
coral_reef: As tides interact with varying bathymetry and wind mixes with surface water, internal waves are created.
coral_reef: MPAs can also encompass social and biological objectives, including reef restoration, aesthetics, biodiversity, and economic benefits.
coral_reef: Apron reef – short reef resembling a fringing reef, but more sloped; extending out and downward from a point or peninsular shore.
coral_reef: The optimum temperature for most coral reefs is 26–27 °C (79–81 °F), and few reefs exist in waters below 18 °C (64 °F).
coral_reef: The timing of spawning depends on the time of year, water temperature, and tidal and lunar cycles.
coral_reef: In old platform reefs, the inner part can be so heavily eroded that it forms a pseudo-atoll.
coral_reef: Polyps across a reef simultaneously release eggs and sperm into the water en masse.
coral_reef: When a water parcel encounters a different density, it oscillates and creates internal waves.
coral_reef: Alternatively, Moyle and Cech distinguish six zones, though most reefs possess only some of the zones.
coral_reef: The algae can then smother the coral by decreasing the oxygen supply available to the reef.
coral_reef: The electrical currents also accelerate the formation and growth of both chemical limestone rock and the skeletons of corals and other shell-bearing organisms, such as oysters.
coral_reef: Fish tend to prefer it when it is present.
coral_reef: Unlike corals, stromatoporoids usually settled on soft substrates, so their 'reefs' occupied only a single level rather than a multi-tiered vertical framework of built-up skeletons.
coral_reef: One case study with coral reef restoration was conducted on the island of Oahu in Hawaii.
coral_reef: Internal waves can act as nutrient pumps, bringing plankton and cool nutrient-rich water to the surface.
coral_reef: Nancy Knowlton's Seminar: "Corals and Coral Reefs".
coral_reef: Externally fertilized eggs develop during synchronized spawning.
coral_reef: When platform reefs develop along elongated structures, such as old, weathered barrier reefs, they tend to form a linear arrangement.
coral_reef: Tropical waters contain few nutrients yet a coral reef can flourish like an "oasis in the desert".
coral_reef: Overall, it appears the MPAs can protect local coral reefs, but that clear management and sufficient funds are required.
coral_reef: Currently, no published research has been conducted on this method.
coral_reef: Overfishing and excess nutrient supply from onshore can enable algae to outcompete and kill the coral.
coral_reef: The resultant white carbonate (aragonite) is the same mineral that makes up natural coral reefs.
coral_reef: Deep nutrient-rich water entering coral reefs through isolated events may have significant effects on temperature and nutrient systems.
coral_reef: As sea level rose, the water and the corals encroached on what had been hills of the Australian coastal plain.
coral_reef: In The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs, Charles Darwin set out his theory of the formation of atoll reefs, an idea he conceived during the voyage of the Beagle.
coral_reef: It is the most common reef type.
coral_reef: This method is the most labor-intensive of the fourth, but researchers believe it should be used more and holds the most significant promise for genetic engineering in coral restoration.
coral_reef: The primary benefit of using coral farms is that they reduce polyp and juvenile mortality.
coral_reef: The reasons for this diversity remain unclear.
coral_reef: As the subsidence continues, the fringing reef becomes a barrier reef and ultimately an atoll reef.
coral_reef: One reason for the unusual clarity of tropical waters is their nutrient deficiency and drifting plankton.
coral_reef: They need sunlight for photosynthesis, which powers carbon fixation, so they are found only relatively near the surface, but they also need nutrients.
coral_reef: Deforestation can release significant amounts of CO2 unless sequestered through active follow-up forestry programs.
coral_reef: These can be distinguished from real atolls only by detailed investigation, possibly including core drilling.
coral_reef: Parrotfish and other herbivorous fish were few in numbers because of decades of overfishing and bycatch at the time.
coral_reef: Algae inhabit a large percentage of surveyed coral locations.
coral_reef: The second method focuses on identifying the different kinds of zooxanthellae within the coral and on determining how many of each live within the coral at a given age.
coral_reef: The level of income provided is similar to the income they would have generated without controls.
coral_reef: Normally, a boundary layer of still water forms around a submerged object, acting as a barrier.
coral_reef: The medium complexity performed the best, with larvae favoring rough rocks over smooth rocks.
coral_reef: Sponges occupy an important role as detritivores in coral reef food webs by recycling detritus to higher trophic levels through their sponge loop.
coral_reef: This zone may border a lagoon and serve as a protective area, or it may lie between the reef and the shore, and in this case, it is a flat, rocky area.
coral_reef: The reef lagoon is an entirely enclosed region, which creates an area less affected by wave action and often contains small reef patches.
coral_reef: Coastlines protected by coral reefs are also more stable in terms of erosion than those without.
coral_reef: The reef flat is the sandy-bottomed flat, which can be behind the main reef, containing chunks of coral.
coral_reef: Platform reefs are found in the southern Great Barrier Reef, the Swain and Capricorn Group on the continental shelf, about 100–200 km from the coast.
coral_reef: Sea level was then 120 m (390 ft) lower than in the 21st century.
coral_reef: Together these measures help creating "resilient reefs".
coral_reef: Zooplankton provide the polyp with nitrogen, and the polyp shares some of the nitrogen with the zooxanthellae, which also require this element.
coral_reef: This is the case, for example, on the east coast of the Red Sea near Jeddah.
coral_reef: An internal wave is a gravity wave that moves along density stratification within the ocean.
coral_reef: Some mature adult corals are hermaphroditic; others are exclusively male or female.
coral_reef: Cyanobacteria provide soluble nitrates via nitrogen fixation.
coral_reef: Deep-water coral inhabits greater depths and colder temperatures at much higher latitudes, as far north as Norway.
coral_reef: Every 4–7 years, an El Niño event causes some reefs with heat-sensitive corals to bleach, with especially widespread bleachings in 1998 and 2010.
