corporation: Corporations chartered in regions where they are distinguished by whether they are allowed to be for-profit are referred to as for-profit and not-for-profit corporations, respectively.
corporation: The South Sea Company's monopoly rights were supposedly backed by the Treaty of Utrecht, signed in 1713 as a settlement following the War of the Spanish Succession, which gave Great Britain an asiento to trade in the region for thirty years.
corporation: In theory, a corporation cannot own its own stock.
corporation: Any consequent litigation had to be carried out in the joint names of all the members and was almost impossibly cumbersome.
corporation: A foreign corporation is almost always subject to the laws of its host state pertaining to external affairs such as employment, crimes, contracts, civil actions, and the like.
corporation: 52–53, 56–57.
corporation: Corporations can be "dissolved" either by statutory operation, the order of the court, or voluntary action on the part of shareholders.
corporation: (1984)
Tooze, Adam, "Democracy and Its Discontents", The New York Review of Books, vol.
corporation: This accelerated the inflation of the share price further, as did the Bubble Act 1720, which (possibly with the motive of protecting the South Sea Company from competition) prohibited the establishment of any companies without a royal charter.
corporation: Corporations come in many different types but are usually divided by the law of the jurisdiction where they are chartered based on two aspects: whether they can issue stock, or whether they are formed to make a profit.
corporation: Early incorporated entities were established by charter (i.e., by an ad hoc act granted by a monarch or passed by a parliament or legislature).
corporation: Private associations were granted designated privileges and liberties by the emperor.
corporation: The point was that the incorporation would survive longer than the lives of any particular member, existing in perpetuity.
corporation: By 1711, shareholders in the East India Company were earning a return on their investment of almost 150 per cent.
corporation: Subsequently, the company became increasingly integrated with English and later British military and colonial policy, just as most corporations were essentially dependent on the Royal Navy's ability to control trade routes.
corporation: For example, a corporation can own property, and can sue or be sued for as long as it exists.
corporation: Foundation.
corporation: Law Review 873
Majumdar, Ramesh Chandra.
corporation: Insolvency may result in a form of corporate failure, when creditors force the liquidation and dissolution of the corporation under court order, but it most often results in a restructuring of corporate holdings.
corporation: The History of the Corporation (2003)
Cadman, John William.
corporation: The advantage of establishing a company as a separate legal person was mainly administrative, as a unified entity under which the rights and duties of all investors and managers could be channeled.
corporation: Registered corporations have a legal personality recognized by local authorities and their shares are owned by shareholders, whose liability is generally limited to their investment.
corporation: Registration is the main prerequisite to the corporation's assumption of limited liability.
corporation: The legislation quickly led to a railway boom, resulting in a surge in the formation of companies.
corporation: In a joint-stock company, the members are known as shareholders, and each of their shares in the ownership, control, and profits of the corporation is determined by the portion of shares in the company that they own.
corporation: It may also be required to designate an agent or other legal representatives of the corporation.
corporation: The process of incorporation was possible only through a royal charter or a private act and was limited, owing to Parliament's jealous protection of the privileges and advantages thereby granted.
corporation: Underdevelopment and the Development of Law: Corporations and Corporation Law in Nineteenth-century Colombia, (1980)
Micklethwait, John and Wooldridge, Adrian.
corporation: What these requirements are depends on the kind of corporation involved.
corporation: In most circumstances, a shareholder may also serve as a director or officer of a corporation.
corporation: These included the state itself (the Populus Romanus), municipalities, and such private associations as sponsors of a religious cult, burial clubs, political groups, and guilds of craftsmen or traders.
corporation: This was subsequently consolidated with a number of other statutes in the Companies Act 1862, which remained in force for the rest of the century, up to and including the time of the decision in Salomon v A Salomon & Co Ltd.
corporation: Provost, Claire; Kennard, Matt (2023).
corporation: Business Organization and Finance: Legal and Economic Principles.
corporation: One of the attractive early advantages corporations offered to their investors, compared to earlier business entities like sole proprietorships and joint partnerships, was limited liability.
corporation: those who are considered the owners of a non-stock corporation are persons (or other entities) who have obtained membership in the corporation and are referred to as a member of the corporation.
corporation: However, since "different states may register entities with the same names, a corporate name is a unique identifier only when combined with the name of the state of incorporation".
corporation: Hoover Institute.
corporation: These terms vary by jurisdiction and language.
corporation: Such bodies commonly had the right to own property and make contracts, to receive gifts and legacies, to sue and be sued, and, in general, to perform legal acts through representatives.
corporation: Joint-stock Enterprise in France: From Privileged Company to Modern Corporation (1979)
Frentrop, P, A History of Corporate Governance 1602–2002 (Brussels et al., 2003)
Freund, Ernst.
corporation: US Corporate Law at Wikibooks
Audio from a talk about the history of corporations and English law by barrister Daniel Bennett
corporation: Historically, some corporations were named after the members of their boards of directors: for example, the "President and Fellows of Harvard College" is the name of one of the two governing boards of Harvard University, but it is also the exact name under which Harvard was legally incorporated.
corporation: A similar chartered company, the South Sea Company, was established in 1711 to trade in the Spanish South American colonies, but met with less success.
corporation: The end of the 19th century saw the emergence of holding companies and corporate mergers creating larger corporations with dispersed shareholders.
corporation: Some jurisdictions do not allow the use of the word "company" alone to denote corporate status, since the word "company" may refer to a partnership or some other form of collective ownership (in the United States it can be used by a sole proprietorship but this is not generally the case elsewhere).
corporation: The Rise of the Business Corporation in India, 1851–1900 (1970)
Scott, W.
corporation: Particularly important in this respect were the Italian jurists Bartolus de Saxoferrato and Baldus de Ubaldis, the latter of whom connected the corporation to the metaphor of the body politic to describe the state.
corporation: Then, in 1843, William Gladstone became the chairman of a Parliamentary Committee on Joint Stock Companies, which led to the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844, regarded as the first modern piece of company law.
corporation: The first, provisional, stage cost £5 and did not confer corporate status, which arose after completing the second stage for another £5.
corporation: Corporate Life in Ancient India Archived 2011-07-06 at the Wayback Machine, (1920)
Means, Robert Charles.
corporation: Generally, a corporation files articles of incorporation with the government, laying out the general nature of the corporation, the amount of stock it is authorized to issue, and the names and addresses of directors.
corporation: Under this model, the board of directors is composed of both executive and non-executive directors, the latter being meant to supervise the former's management of the company.
corporation: This explains why lawyers in legal papers often expressly refer to a corporation's state of incorporation after the first mention of its name.
corporation: The Company: A Short History of a Revolutionary Idea.
corporation: Bloomsbury Academic.
corporation: The British Bubble Act 1720's prohibition on establishing companies remained in force until its repeal in 1825.
corporation: ISBN 978-1350269989.
corporation: Thus, a person who owns a quarter of the shares of a joint-stock company owns a quarter of the company, is entitled to a quarter of the profit (or at least a quarter of the profit given to shareholders as dividends) and has a quarter of the votes capable of being cast at general meetings.
corporation: If a corporation operates outside its home state, it is usually required to register with other governments as a foreign corporation and must formally appoint a registered agent to accept service of process within such other jurisdictions.
corporation: "Neoliberalism as Corporate Power".
corporation: Early entities which carried on business and were the subjects of legal rights included the collegium of ancient Rome and the sreni of the Maurya Empire in ancient India.
corporation: Broadly speaking, there are two kinds of committee structure.
corporation: The repeal was the beginning of a gradual lifting on restrictions, though business ventures (such as those chronicled by Charles Dickens in Martin Chuzzlewit) under primitive companies legislation were often scams.
corporation: By the time of Justinian (reigned 527–565), Roman law recognized a range of corporate entities under the names Universitas, corpus or collegium.
corporation: Corporations in Perspective.
corporation: In fact, the Spanish remained hostile and let only one ship a year enter.
corporation: In 1899, Delaware followed New Jersey's lead by enacting an enabling corporate statute.
corporation: On 31 December 1600, Queen Elizabeth I granted the company a 15-year monopoly on trade to and from the East Indies and Africa.
corporation: By this point, the Industrial Revolution had gathered pace, pressing for legal change to facilitate business activity.
corporation: The Corporation in New Jersey: Business and Politics (1949)
Conard, Alfred F.
corporation: The next, crucial development, then, was the Limited Liability Act 1855, passed at the behest of the then Vice President of the Board of Trade, Robert Lowe.
corporation: Where local law distinguishes corporations by their ability to issue stock, corporations allowed to do so are referred to as stock corporations; one type of investment in the corporation is through stock, and owners of stock are referred to as stockholders or shareholders.
corporation: As explained above, such charters were often enacted as private bills.
corporation: Another major post World War I shift was toward the development of conglomerates, in which large corporations purchased smaller corporations to expand their industrial base.
corporation: This allowed investors to limit their liability in the event of business failure to the amount they invested in the company – shareholders were still liable directly to creditors, but just for the unpaid portion of their shares.
corporation: Brown, Bruce.
corporation: In England, the government created corporations under a royal charter or an Act of Parliament with the grant of a monopoly over a specified territory.
corporation: Once the articles are approved, the corporation's directors meet to create bylaws that govern the internal functions of the corporation, such as meeting procedures and officer positions.
corporation: Shareholders were also explicitly granted limited liability in the company's royal charter.
corporation: Cooke, C.A., Corporation, Trust and Company: A Legal History, (1950)
Davies, PL, and LCB Gower, Principles of Modern Company Law (6th ed., Sweet and Maxwell, 1997), chapters 2–4
Davis, John P.
corporation: Owen, Thomas.
corporation: The 20th century witnessed a proliferation of laws allowing for the creation of corporations through registration worldwide.
corporation: Hessen, Robert.
corporation: Limited liability for insurance companies was allowed by the Companies Act 1862.
corporation: By 1717, the South Sea Company was so wealthy (still having done no real business) that it assumed the public debt of the British government.
corporation: 24 (3–4): 315–337.
corporation: Hunt, Bishop.
corporation: The concept of the corporation was revived in the Middle Ages with the recovery and annotation of Justinian's Corpus Juris Civilis by the glossators and their successors the commentators in the 11th–14th centuries.
corporation: Starting in the 1980s, many countries with large state-owned corporations began moving toward privatization, which involved selling publicly owned (or 'nationalized') services and enterprises to corporations.
corporation: Corporations not allowed to issue stock are referred to as non-stock corporations; i.e.
corporation: American Business Corporations Until 1860, with Special Reference to Massachusetts (1954)
DuBois, A.
corporation: A single committee known as a board of directors is the method favored in most common law countries.
corporation: Countries with co-determination employ the practice of workers of an enterprise having the right to vote for representatives on the board of directors in a company.
corporation: Investors in the VOC were issued paper certificates as proof of share ownership, and were able to trade their shares on the original Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
corporation: Corporations can exercise human rights against real individuals and the state, and they can themselves be responsible for human rights violations.
corporation: An Essay on the History of Corporate Law" (2000) 34 Ga.
corporation: State governments began to adopt more permissive corporate laws from the early 19th century, although these were all restrictive in design, often with the intention of preventing corporations from gaining too much wealth and power.
corporation: Most jurisdictions now allow the creation of new corporations through registration.
corporation: New York: Modern Library.
corporation: In most countries, corporate names include a term or an abbreviation that denotes the corporate status of the entity (for example, "Incorporated" or "Inc." in the United States) or the limited liability of its members (for example, "Limited", "Ltd.", or "LLC").
corporation: New York: Simon & Schuster.
corporation: Finally, there is the threat du jour: corporations and the technologies they promote."  (pp.
corporation: Many private firms, such as Carnegie's steel company and Rockefeller's Standard Oil, avoided the corporate model for this reason (as a trust).
corporation: Without cohesive regulation, proverbial operations like the "Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Assurance Company" were undercapitalized ventures promising no hope of success except for richly paid promoters.
corporation: Today, a corporation is formed, or incorporated, by registering with the state, province, or national government and regulated by the laws enacted by that government.
corporation: Under the internal affairs doctrine, the law of the jurisdiction in which a corporation is incorporated will govern its internal activities—that is, conflicts between shareholders and managers such as the board of directors and corporate officers.
corporation: We may indeed be witnessing its extension in the form of artificial intelligence and robotics.
corporation: Acting under a charter sanctioned by the Dutch government, the Dutch East India Company defeated Portuguese forces and established itself in the Moluccan Islands in order to profit from the European demand for spices.
corporation: Commentaries on the Laws of England (1765) 455–473
Blumberg, Phillip I., The Multinational Challenge to Corporation Law: The Search for a New Corporate Personality, (1993)
Blumberg, PI, The Multinational Challenge to Corporation Law (1993)
Bromberg, Alan R.
corporation: This was the first speculative bubble the country had seen, but by the end of 1720, the bubble had "burst", and the share price sank from £1,000 to under £100.
corporation: Corporate Personality: A Study in Jurisprudence (1930)
Hathaway, Terry (2020).
corporation: In the late 18th century, Stewart Kyd, the author of the first treatise on corporate law in English, defined a corporation as:
corporation: The Age of Giant Corporations: A Microeconomic History of American Business.
corporation: Labeled by both contemporaries and historians as "the grandest society of merchants in the universe", the English East India Company would come to symbolize the dazzlingly rich potential of the corporation, as well as new methods of business that could be both brutal and exploitative.
corporation: may be inclined to assign to the nameless inventor of the principle of limited liability, as applied to trade corporations, a place of honour with Watt and Stephenson, and other pioneers of the Industrial Revolution.
corporation: Such critics note that the legal mandate of the corporation to focus exclusively on corporate profits and self-interest often victimizes employees, customers, the public at large, and/or the natural resources.
corporation: Essays in the Earlier History of American Corporations Archived 2011-06-10 at the Wayback Machine (1917)
Dignam, Alan and John Lowry (2020), Company Law, Oxford University Press ISBN 978-0-19-928936-3
Dodd, Edwin Merrick.
corporation: In some cases, this will be a single individual but more commonly corporations are controlled by a committee or by committees.
corporation: (The principle that shareholders are liable to the corporation had been introduced in the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844.)
The 1855 Act allowed limited liability to companies of more than 25 members (shareholders).
corporation: This essentially becomes the equivalent of unissued capital, where it is not classified as an asset on the balance sheet (passive capital).
corporation: Corporate names are supposed to be unique to the jurisdiction in which the corporation is registered.
corporation: The alleged oldest commercial corporation in the world, the Stora Kopparberg mining community in Falun, Sweden, obtained a charter from King Magnus Eriksson in 1347.
corporation: The Corporation Under Russian Law: A Study in Tsarist Economic Policy (1991)
Rungta, Radhe Shyam.
corporation: Bureaucratic overreach and environmental catastrophe are precisely the kinds of slow-moving existential challenges that democracies deal with very badly....
corporation: The word "corporation" derives from corpus, the Latin word for body, or a "body of people".
corporation: Governments will not allow another corporation or any other kind of legal entity to register a name that is too similar to the name of an existing corporation.
corporation: Countries began enacting antitrust laws to prevent anti-competitive practices and corporations were granted more legal rights and protections.
corporation: Some corporations at this time would act on the government's behalf, bringing in revenue from its exploits abroad.
corporation: However, corporations are not considered living entities in the way that humans are.
corporation: Constitution and Finance of English, Scottish and Irish Joint-Stock Companies to 1720 Archived 2011-07-06 at the Wayback Machine (1912)
Sobel, Robert.
corporation: As a result, many businesses came to be operated as unincorporated associations with possibly thousands of members.
corporation: An exception is treasury stock, where the company essentially buys back stock from its shareholders, which reduces its outstanding shares.
corporation: Crane and Bromberg on Partnership.
corporation: Despite not being human beings, corporations have been ruled legal persons in a few countries, and have many of the same rights as  natural persons do.
corporation: doi:10.1177/1024529420910382.
corporation: In 1892, Germany introduced the Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung with a separate legal personality and limited liability even if all the shares of the company were held by only one person.
corporation: Nowadays, corporations in most jurisdictions have a distinct name that does not need to make reference to the members of their boards.
corporation: In countries with co-determination (such as in Germany), workers elect a fixed fraction of the corporation's board.
corporation: The Development of the Business Corporation in England  (1936)
Klein and Coffee.
corporation: 10 (6 June 2019), pp.
corporation: Subsequent stock offerings demonstrated just how lucrative the company had become.
corporation: The English Business Company after the Bubble Act (1938)
Formoy, RR, The Historical Foundations of Company Law (Sweet and Maxwell 1923) 21
Freedman, Charles.
corporation: Corporations can even be convicted of special criminal offenses in the UK, such as fraud and corporate manslaughter.
corporation: Salomon & Co., where the House of Lords confirmed the separate legal personality of the company, and that the liabilities of the company were separate and distinct from those of its owners.
corporation: The Legal Nature of the Corporation (1897), MCMaster.ca
Hallis, Frederick.
corporation: (2020)
Blackstone, W.
corporation: Likewise, after decades of dire warning, the environmental problem remains fundamentally unaddressed....
corporation: In a credit union, the members are people who have accounts with the credit union.
corporation: Unaware of the problems, investors in Britain, enticed by extravagant promises of profit from company promoters, bought thousands of shares.
corporation: For the first time in history, it was possible for ordinary people through a simple registration procedure to incorporate.
corporation: In a worker cooperative, the members are people who work for the cooperative.
corporation: Bakan, Joel.
corporation: Strong academic, legislative, and judicial opinions emerged, opposing the notion that businessmen could escape accountability for their role in the failing businesses.
corporation: Their use puts everybody on constructive notice that they are dealing with an entity whose liability is limited: one can only collect from whatever assets the entity still controls when one obtains a judgment against it.
corporation: Smith wrote in his 1776 work The Wealth of Nations that mass corporate activity could not match private entrepreneurship, because people in charge of others' money would not exercise as much care as they would with their own.
corporation: Its first stock offering in 1713–1716 raised £418,000, and its second in 1717–1722 raised £1.6 million.
corporation: Depending on the number of owners, a corporation can be classified as aggregate (the subject of this article) or sole (a legal entity consisting of a single incorporated office occupied by a single natural person).
corporation: The New Corporation: How "Good" Corporations Are Bad for Democracy.
corporation: In medieval Europe, traders would do business through common law constructs, such as partnerships.
corporation: Kocaoglu, Kagan (Cahn Kojaolu) A Comparative Bibliography: Regulatory Competition on Corporate Law
Kyd, S, A Treatise on the Law of Corporations (1793–1794)
Mahoney, PG, "Contract or Concession?
corporation: "Democracy has no clear answer for the mindless operation of bureaucratic and technological power.
corporation: A two-tiered committee structure with a supervisory board and a managing board is common in civil law countries.
corporation: These laws played a significant role in driving economic booms in many countries both before and after World War I.
corporation: Global Reach: The Power of the Multinational Corporation.
corporation: Shareholders do not typically actively manage a corporation; shareholders instead elect or appoint a board of directors to control the corporation in a fiduciary capacity.
corporation: The law sometimes requires the corporation to designate its principal address, as well as a registered agent (a person or company designated to receive legal service of process).
corporation: However, in the later nineteenth century, a period of depression set in, causing many of these companies to collapse and become insolvent.
corporation: "
These two features – a simple registration procedure and limited liability – were subsequently codified into the landmark 1856 Joint Stock Companies Act.
corporation: Though Parliament would sometimes grant a private act to allow an individual to represent the whole in legal proceedings, this was a narrow and necessarily costly expedient, allowed only to established companies.
corporation: The day-to-day activities of a corporation are typically controlled by individuals appointed by the members.
corporation: The share price rose so rapidly that people began buying shares merely in order to sell them at a higher price, which in turn led to higher share prices.
corporation: As bankruptcies and recriminations ricocheted through government and high society, the mood against corporations and errant directors was bitter.
corporation: The Act created the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, empowered to register companies by a two-stage process.
corporation: In medieval Europe, churches became incorporated, as did local governments, such as the City of London Corporation.
corporation: In the United States, forming a corporation usually required an act of legislation until the late 19th century.
corporation: Corporations Archived 2011-06-11 at the Wayback Machine (1904)
Davis, Joseph S.
corporation: Competition & Change.
corporation: Queen Elizabeth I granted it the exclusive right to trade with all countries to the east of the Cape of Good Hope.
corporation: This inspired other countries to introduce corporations of this kind.
corporation: In 1896, New Jersey was the first state to adopt an "enabling" corporate law, with the goal of attracting more business to the state.
corporation: In another kind of corporation, the legal document which established the corporation or which contains its current rules will determine the requirements for membership in the corporation.
corporation: Early guilds and livery companies were also often involved in the regulation of competition between traders.
corporation: In some jurisdictions, they are mandatory, and in others, such as California, they are not.
corporation: Whenever people acted together with a view to profit, the law deemed that a partnership arose.
corporation: Silent Coup: How Corporations Overthrew Democracy.
corporation: Deregulation aimed at reducing the regulation of corporate activity, often accompanied privatization as part of a laissez-faire policy.
corporation: In Defense of the Corporation.
corporation: The last significant development in the history of companies was the 1897 decision of the House of Lords in Salomon v.
corporation: Dutch and English chartered companies, such as the Dutch East India Company (also known by its Dutch initials: VOC) and the Hudson's Bay Company, were created to lead the colonial ventures of European nations in the 17th century.
corporation: The best-known example, established in 1600, was the East India Company of London.
corporation: However, Delaware only emerged as the leading corporate state after the enabling provisions of the 1896 New Jersey corporate law were repealed in 1913.
corporation: Insurance companies were excluded from the act, though it was standard practice for insurance contracts to exclude action against individual members.
