corporate_tax: Some cities: up to 9%, deductible in computing federal taxable income.
corporate_tax: The Canadian system imposes tax at different rates for different types of corporations, allowing lower rates for some smaller corporations.
corporate_tax: Losses of one group member company may be "surrendered" to another group member company, and the latter company may deduct the loss against profits.
corporate_tax: It distributes all the earnings in year 3, when it has no profits.
corporate_tax: Many systems require forms or schedules supporting particular items on the main form.
corporate_tax: For example, Bigco acquires all of the shares of Smallco from Smallco shareholders in exchange solely for Bigco shares.
corporate_tax: Some jurisdictions do not recognize inter-branch payments as actual payments, and income or deductions arising from such inter-branch payments are disregarded.
corporate_tax: Under this new system, automobiles and breeding swine obtained a three year depreciation value; storage facilities, most equipment and breeding cattle and sheep became five year property; and land improvements were fifteen year property.
corporate_tax: Tax returns can be fairly simple or quite complex.
corporate_tax: The United States has extensive regulations dealing with consolidated returns.
corporate_tax: Branches of foreign corporations may not be entitled to all of the same deductions as domestic corporations.
corporate_tax: Some systems limit deductions based on simple formulas, such as a debt-to-equity ratio, while other systems have more complex rules.
corporate_tax: Tax return due dates vary by jurisdiction, fiscal or tax year, and type of entity.
corporate_tax: A few systems provide for partial integration of entity and member taxation.
corporate_tax: They decide to incorporate for business reasons.
corporate_tax: No international laws limit the ability of a country to tax its nationals and residents (individuals and entities).
corporate_tax: This results in a dual level of tax.
corporate_tax: The ACT was included in income by the shareholder resident in the United Kingdom or certain treaty countries, and treated as a payment of tax by the shareholder.
corporate_tax: Such taxes may include income or other taxes.
corporate_tax: In such jurisdictions, exceptions are usually provided with respect to distribution of shares of the company, for winding up, and in limited other situations.
corporate_tax: A company has been defined as a juristic person having an independent and separate existence from its shareholders.
corporate_tax: Such non-income taxes may be based on capital stock issued or authorized (either by number of shares or value), total equity, net capital, or other measures unique to corporations.
corporate_tax: In addition, a few systems provide a tax exemption for dividend income received by corporations.
corporate_tax: Such distribution of earnings is generally referred to as a dividend.
corporate_tax: Some jurisdictions, such as Swiss cantons and certain states within the United States, impose taxes based on capital.
corporate_tax: and Eustice, James S.: Federal Income Taxation of Corporations and Shareholders:  paperback ISBN 978-0-7913-4101-8, subscription service
Kahn & Lehman.
corporate_tax: When an Australian company pays a dividend to a domestic shareholder, it reports the dividend as well as a notional tax credit amount.
corporate_tax: Generally, significant restrictions apply if tax free treatment is to be obtained.
corporate_tax: Mexico imposes an alternative tax on corporations, the IETU.
corporate_tax: United States federal income tax incorporates an alternative minimum tax.
corporate_tax: Often, domestic corporations are taxed on worldwide income while foreign corporations are taxed only on income from sources within the jurisdiction.
corporate_tax: The purpose of corporate tax is to generate revenue for the government by taxing the profits earned by corporations.
corporate_tax: In addition, most systems provide specific rules for taxation of the entity and/or its members upon winding up or dissolution of the entity.
corporate_tax: If on the other hand Newco also assumes a bank loan in excess of the basis of the assets transferred less the accrued liabilities, John and Mary will recognize taxable gain for such excess.
corporate_tax: This tax may be imposed at the time profits are earned by the branch or at the time they are remitted or deemed remitted outside the country.
corporate_tax: Second, the corporate income tax can be viewed a levy firms pay for publicly provided services.
corporate_tax: However, most countries have territorial tax systems, which only require corporations to pay taxes on income earned within the country's borders.
corporate_tax: In such systems, items characterized as interest may be deductible, perhaps subject to limitations, while items characterized as dividends are not.
corporate_tax: Canada: Federal 11%, or federal 15% plus provincial 1% to 16%.
corporate_tax: Such adjustments may apply in both an international and a domestic context.
corporate_tax: Most jurisdictions allow such deductions only in subsequent periods.
corporate_tax: Returns for such systems generally require that the relevant financial statements be attached to a simple adjustment schedule.
corporate_tax: The United States has 13 variations on the basic Form 1120 for S corporations, insurance companies, Domestic international sales corporations, foreign corporations, and other entities.
corporate_tax: For example, the U.S.
corporate_tax: Some studies place the burden more on labor.
corporate_tax: Another use of the corporate tax is to encourage investments in some specific industries.
corporate_tax: state of Michigan previously taxed businesses on an alternative base that did not allow compensation of employees as a tax deduction and allowed full deduction of the cost of production assets upon acquisition.
corporate_tax: A less recent example was the effort to restore heavy industries in the US by enacting the 1981 Accelerated Cost Recovery System (ACRS), which offered favorable depreciation allowances that would in turn lower taxes and increase cash flow, thus encouraging investment during the recession.
corporate_tax: States: 0% to 10%, deductible in computing federal taxable income.
corporate_tax: The rate of tax varies by jurisdiction.
corporate_tax: The shareholder utilizes this notional credit to offset shareholder level income tax.
corporate_tax: This tax is computed at a lower tax rate (20% for corporations), and imposed based on a modified version of taxable income.
corporate_tax: tax on corporate profits of 35% is less than or similar to that of European countries such as Germany, Ireland, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, which have lower corporate tax rates but higher taxes on dividends paid to shareholders.
corporate_tax: This tax may be imposed at the same rate as the tax on business income of a resident corporation or at a different rate.
corporate_tax: To the extent that deemed tax payment exceeded taxes otherwise due, it was refundable to the shareholder.
corporate_tax: Most systems tax both domestic and foreign corporations.
corporate_tax: In some jurisdictions, capital based taxes are imposed in addition to the income tax.
corporate_tax: Certain corporate acts or types of entities may be exempt from tax.
corporate_tax: In the United Kingdom, this is accomplished directly on a pairwise basis called group relief.
corporate_tax: These computations may be based on assets, capital, wages, or some alternative measure of taxable income.
corporate_tax: Mechanisms include combined or consolidated returns as well as group relief (direct benefit from items of another member).
corporate_tax: 2021) 
United Kingdom
corporate_tax: Examples of corporate tax rates for a few English-speaking jurisdictions include:
corporate_tax: The rules related to such transactions are often quite complex.
corporate_tax: Significant restrictions and special rules often apply.
corporate_tax: Company income subject to tax is often determined much like taxable income for individual taxpayers.
corporate_tax: Third, corporate taxes are an instrument to tax excess profits of monopolies or profits from extracted natural resources.
corporate_tax: Without such limitation, owners could structure financing of the corporation in a manner that would provide for a tax deduction for much of the profits, potentially without changing the tax on shareholders.
corporate_tax: Under the U.S.
corporate_tax: The structure of the forms and imbedded schedules vary by type of form.
corporate_tax: A key issue in corporate tax is the setting of prices charged by related parties for goods, services or the use of property.
corporate_tax: Some systems currently attempt or in the past have attempted to integrate taxation of the corporation with taxation of shareholders to mitigate the dual level of taxation.
corporate_tax: When a company paid a dividend, it was required to pay an amount of ACT, which it then used to offset its own taxes.
corporate_tax: Some systems provide a mechanism whereby groups of related corporations may obtain benefit from losses, credits, or other items of all members within the group.
corporate_tax: The tax may have an alternative base, such as assets, payroll, or income computed in an alternative manner.
corporate_tax: Upon payment of dividends, corporations are generally subject to withholding tax only by their country of incorporation.
corporate_tax: Preparation of non-simple corporate tax returns can be time consuming.
corporate_tax: If the corporation is structured so that deductible interest of 50 is payable to the shareholders, it will cut its tax to half the amount due if it merely paid a dividend.
corporate_tax: The systems requiring simple returns often base taxable income on financial statement profits with few adjustments, and may require that audited financial statements be attached to the return.
corporate_tax: A common form of limitation is to limit the deduction for interest paid to related parties to interest charged at arm's length rates on debt not exceeding a certain portion of the equity of the paying corporation.
corporate_tax: United States: Federal 21%.
corporate_tax: Jim owns all of Widget Corp.
corporate_tax: Generally, the tax is imposed on net profits.
corporate_tax: A few jurisdictions allow losses (usually defined as negative taxable income) to be deducted by revising or amending prior year taxable income.
corporate_tax: Some systems tax some or all dividend income at lower rates than other income.
corporate_tax: The United States taxes most types of corporate income at 21%.
corporate_tax: IRS main website
IRS gateway for corporations
IRS Publication 542, Corporations
corporate_tax: The United States has historically provided a dividends received deduction to corporations with respect to dividends from other corporations in which the recipient owns more than 10% of the shares.
corporate_tax: Many jurisdictions have guidelines on transfer pricing which allow tax authorities to adjust transfer prices used.
corporate_tax: Income of the company is computed and assessed separately in the hands of the company.
corporate_tax: Many countries impose a branch profits tax on foreign corporations to prevent the advantage the absence of dividend withholding tax would otherwise provide to foreign corporations.
corporate_tax: United Kingdom: 19% for 2017–2022.
corporate_tax: Some systems have different returns for different types of corporations or corporations engaged in specialized businesses.
corporate_tax: Under United States principles, this transfer does not cause tax to John, Mary, or Newco.
corporate_tax: This is referred to as a consolidated return in the United States and as a fiscal unity in the Netherlands.
corporate_tax: Other jurisdictions provide corporations a means of designating, within limits, whether a distribution is a distribution of earnings taxable to the shareholder or a return of capital.
corporate_tax: Canadian corporations must pay estimated taxes monthly.
corporate_tax: corporations incorporated in the country,
corporations doing business in the country on income from that country,
foreign corporations who have a permanent establishment in the country, or
corporations deemed to be resident for tax purposes in the country.
corporate_tax: For example, individuals are not formed, amalgamated, or acquired, and corporations do not incur medical expenses except by way of compensating individuals.
corporate_tax: Where such interest is paid to related parties, such deduction may be limited.
corporate_tax: Tax rates vary by jurisdiction and some countries have sub-country level jurisdictions like provinces, cantons, prefectures, cities, or other that also impose corporate income tax like Canada, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, and the United States.
corporate_tax: Many systems, including the United States and Canada, extend this tax free treatment to the formation of a corporation by any group of shareholders in control of the corporation.
corporate_tax: The United States taxes corporations under the same framework of tax law as individuals, with differences related to the inherent natures of corporations and individuals or unincorporated entities.
corporate_tax: However, treaties and practicality impose limits on taxation of those outside its borders, even on income from sources within the country.
corporate_tax: Bittker, Boris I.
corporate_tax: Many systems (particularly sub-country level systems) impose a tax on particular corporate attributes.
corporate_tax: Corporate tax rates generally are the same for differing types of income, yet the US graduated its tax rate system where corporations with lower levels of income pay a lower rate of tax, with rates varying from 15% on the first $50,000 of income to 35% on incomes over $10,000,000, with phase-outs.
corporate_tax: This acquisition is not taxable to Smallco or its shareholders under U.S.
corporate_tax: According to one study: "Regression analysis shows that a one-percentage-point increase in the marginal state corporate tax rate reduces wages 0.14 to 0.36 percent." There have been other studies.
corporate_tax: In comparing national corporate tax rates one should also take into account the taxes on dividends paid to shareholders.
corporate_tax: In times of economic downturn, lowering the corporate tax rates is meant to encourage investment, while in cases of an overheating economy adjusting the corporate tax is used to slow investment.
corporate_tax: See Limited liability company,  Partnership taxation, S corporation, Sole proprietorship.
corporate_tax: A corporate tax is a tax imposed on the net profit of a corporation that is taxed at the entity level in a particular jurisdiction.
corporate_tax: The tax rate varies from country to country and is usually calculated as a percentage of the corporation's net income or capital.
corporate_tax: A country's corporate tax may apply to:
corporate_tax: Corporate tax rates across the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) are shown in the table.
corporate_tax: Other systems provide that the government must make an assessment for tax to be due.
corporate_tax: They transfer the assets of the business to Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation of which they are the sole shareholders, subject to accrued liabilities of the business in exchange solely for common shares of Newco.
corporate_tax: CRA main website
CRA gateway for corporations
CRA gateway to T2 returns
United Kingdom
corporate_tax: Some systems require certification of tax returns in some manner by accountants licensed to practice in the jurisdiction, often the company's auditors.
corporate_tax: Net profit for corporate tax is generally the financial statement net profit with modifications, and may be defined in great detail within each country's tax system.
corporate_tax: This may be accomplished by "imputation systems" or franking credits.
corporate_tax: The Tax Justice Network and the Fair Tax Foundation argue that corporate income tax can be a major lever to reduce inequality, given that richer households ultimately bear more payments than poorer households.
corporate_tax: These may be based on total equity per audited financial statements, a computed amount of assets less liabilities or quantity of shares outstanding.
corporate_tax: Hong Kong taxes resident and nonresident corporations only on income from sources within the country.
corporate_tax: The classification of instruments as debt on which interest is deductible or as equity with respect to which distributions are not deductible can be complex in some systems.
corporate_tax: Some of these schedules may be incorporated into the main form.
corporate_tax: The rate of such withholding tax may be reduced for a shareholder under a tax treaty.
corporate_tax: The tax rate is lower than the regular rate, and there are adjustments for salaries and wages, interest and royalties, and depreciable assets.
corporate_tax: In self-assessment systems, payment of taxes is generally due no later than the normal due date, though advance tax payments may be required.
corporate_tax: In other jurisdictions, the capital taxes function as alternative taxes.
corporate_tax: The tax systems of most countries impose an income tax at the entity level on the certain type(s) of entities (company or corporation).
corporate_tax: The tax rate in the residence jurisdiction of Jim and Widget Corp is 30%.
corporate_tax: Corporations, like other entities, may be subject to withholding tax obligations upon making certain varieties of payments to others.
corporate_tax: Other jurisdictions treat distributions as distributions of earnings taxable to shareholders if earnings are available to be distributed, but do not prohibit distributions in excess of earnings.
corporate_tax: For example, assume a corporation earns profits of 100 before interest expense and would normally distribute 50 to shareholders.
corporate_tax: The Internal Revenue Service had proposed complex regulations under this section (see TD 7747, 1981-1 CB 141) which were soon withdrawn (TD 7920, 1983-2 CB 69).
corporate_tax: One such rule requires matching of income and deductions on intercompany transactions within the group by use of "deferred intercompany transaction" rules.
corporate_tax: As a current example, Australia provides for a "franking credit" as a benefit to shareholders.
corporate_tax: system, related party interest expense in excess of 50% of cash flow is generally not currently deductible, with the excess potentially deductible in future years.
corporate_tax: In the past, mechanisms have existed for advance payment of member tax by corporations, with such payment offsetting entity level tax.
corporate_tax: The United States, United Kingdom, and French tax systems apply a more complex set of tests to limit deductions.
corporate_tax: Commonly limited deductions include management fees and interest.
corporate_tax: Modifications include longer depreciation lives assets under MACRS, adjustments related to costs of developing natural resources, and an addback of certain tax exempt interest.
corporate_tax: A corporate tax, also called corporation tax or company tax or corporate income tax, is a type of direct tax levied on the income or capital of corporations and other similar legal entities.
corporate_tax: Economists discussed the question of logic behind the corporate tax since only people can pay taxes, and corporations are merely legal entities.
corporate_tax: Example:  John and Mary are United States residents who operate a business.
corporate_tax: For tax years 2004–2010, the United States also has imposed a reduced rate of taxation on dividends received by individuals.
corporate_tax: Corporate taxes may be referred to as income tax or capital tax, depending on the nature of the tax.
corporate_tax: The United States provides reduced tax on dividend income of both corporations and individuals.
corporate_tax: Economists disagree as to how much of the burden of the corporate tax falls on owners, workers, consumers, and landowners, and how the corporate tax affects economic growth and economic inequality.
corporate_tax: In each case, final payment is due with the corporation tax return.
corporate_tax: Examples of reorganizations that may be tax free include mergers, amalgamations, liquidations of subsidiaries, share for share exchanges, exchanges of shares for assets, changes in form or place of organization, and recapitalizations.
corporate_tax: Internal Revenue Service states in the instructions for Form 1120 that the average time needed to complete form is over 56 hours, not including record keeping time and required attachments.
corporate_tax: Hong Kong: 16.5%
Ireland: 12.5% on trading (business) income, and 25% on non-trading income
New Zealand: 28%
Singapore: 17% from 2010, however a partial exemption scheme may apply to new companies.
corporate_tax: The company law of some jurisdictions prevents corporations from distributing amounts to shareholders except as distribution of earnings.
corporate_tax: The incidence of corporate taxation is a subject of significant debate among economists and policymakers.
corporate_tax: More of the burden probably falls on capital in large open economies such as the US.
corporate_tax: Evidence suggests that some portion of the corporate tax falls on owners of capital, workers, and shareholders, but the ultimate incidence of the tax is an unresolved question.
corporate_tax: In October 2021 some 136 countries agreed to enforce a corporate tax rate of at least 15% from 2023 after the talks on a minimum rate led by OECD for a decade.
corporate_tax: Generally, in tax free formations the tax attributes of assets and liabilities are transferred to the new corporation along with such assets and liabilities.
corporate_tax: Most jurisdictions tax foreign corporations on business income within the jurisdiction when earned through a branch or permanent establishment in the jurisdiction.
corporate_tax: HMRC main website
HMRC Introduction to Corporation Tax
United States
corporate_tax: Tolley's Corporation Tax, 2007-2008 ISBN 978-0-7545-3273-6
Watterson, Juliana M.:  Corporation Tax 2009/2010, Bloomsbury Professional, ISBN 978-1-84766-327-6
corporate_tax: Some systems (such as the Canadian, United Kingdom and United States systems) require that taxpayers self assess tax on the tax return.
corporate_tax: In systems where financing costs are allowed as reductions of the tax base (tax deductions), rules may apply that differentiate between classes of member-provided financing.
corporate_tax: For example, under the United States system each corporation must maintain a calculation of its earnings and profits (a tax concept similar to retained earnings).
corporate_tax: A distribution to a shareholder is considered to be from earnings and profits to the extent thereof unless an exception applies.
corporate_tax: Jenson argues that low corporate tax rates are a minor determinate of a multinational company when setting up their headquarters in a country.
corporate_tax: Often the alternative tax functions as a minimum tax.
corporate_tax: Many systems additionally tax shareholders of those entities on dividends or other distributions by the corporation.
corporate_tax: Fourth, corporate taxes are often seen as an instrument to increase the progressivity of the tax system since corporate income is concentrated at the top of the income distribution.
corporate_tax: The rates are additive.
corporate_tax: The depreciation defined by ACRS was thus sizeably larger than under the previous tax system.
corporate_tax: The agriculture industry, for example, could profit from the reassessment of their farming equipment.
corporate_tax: The Federal Alternative Minimum Tax of 20% is imposed on regular taxable income with adjustments.
corporate_tax: By contrast, United States corporate tax returns require both computation of taxable income from components thereof and reconciliation of taxable income to financial statement income.
corporate_tax: Corporate tax rates may also differ for domestic and foreign corporations.
corporate_tax: Corporate tax rates vary widely by country, leading some corporations to shield earnings within offshore subsidiaries or to redomicile within countries with lower tax rates.
corporate_tax: Most systems require that income tax be withheld on distribution of dividends to foreign shareholders, and some also require withholding of tax on distributions to domestic shareholders.
corporate_tax: In the United States and Netherlands, among others, this is accomplished by filing a single tax return including the income and loss of each group member.
corporate_tax: Some jurisdictions impose tax at a different rate on an alternative tax base.
corporate_tax: Some jurisdictions impose express limits on tax deductions of branches.
corporate_tax: The United States taxes resident corporations, i.e.
corporate_tax: Some countries have tax laws that require corporations to pay taxes on their worldwide income, regardless of where the income is earned.
corporate_tax: For example, the overall U.S.
corporate_tax: The OCED notes that the main concern with corporate tax is its negative impact on investment as it lowers investment and decrease productivity.
corporate_tax: For example, interest paid on related party debt in excess of three times equity may not be deductible in computing taxable income.
corporate_tax: Characterization as a corporation for tax purposes is based on the form of organization, with the exception of United States Federal and most states income taxes, under which an entity may elect to be treated as a corporation and taxed at the entity level or taxed only at the member level.
corporate_tax: These obligations are generally not the tax of the corporation, but the system may impose penalties on the corporation or its officers or employees for failing to withhold and pay over such taxes.
corporate_tax: The tax may be at reduced rates.
corporate_tax: Corporations' property tax, payroll tax, withholding tax, excise tax, customs duties, value added tax, and other common taxes, are generally not referred to as "corporate tax".
corporate_tax: Australia: 28.5%, however some specialized entities are taxed at lower rates.
corporate_tax: For example, the Canadian corporate return, Form T-2, an eight-page form, incorporates some detail schedules but has nearly 50 additional schedules that may be required.
corporate_tax: sales plus other income minus cost of goods sold and tax exempt income less allowable tax deductions, without the allowance of the standard deduction applicable to individuals.
corporate_tax: Most countries exempt certain types of corporate events or transactions from income tax.
corporate_tax: The corporate tax rates in other jurisdictions include:
corporate_tax: The tax is usually imposed at the national level, but it may also be imposed at state or local levels in some countries.
corporate_tax: In certain cases, distributions from the company to its shareholders as dividends are taxed as income to the shareholders.
corporate_tax: For example, the United States provides for reduced amounts of tax on dividends received by  individuals and by corporations.
corporate_tax: In some jurisdictions, rules for taxing companies may differ significantly from rules for taxing individuals.
corporate_tax: The Netherlands system provides a "participation exception" to taxation for corporations owning more than 25% of the dividend paying corporation.
corporate_tax: The first justification for imposing a corporate tax is that it is easier to impose taxes on corporation than on people.
corporate_tax: those organized within the country, on their worldwide income, and nonresident, foreign corporations only on their income from sources within the country.
corporate_tax: or Canadian tax law if certain requirements are met, even if Smallco is then liquidated into or merged or amalgamated with Bigco.
corporate_tax: Corporate Income Taxation
Healy, John C.
corporate_tax: Hanappi, Millot and Turban (2023) used panel regressions to show that business investment is negatively correlated with corporate taxation rates.
corporate_tax: The corporate income tax rates differ between US states and range from 2.5% to 11.5%.
corporate_tax: Such earnings may be determined under company law principles or tax principles.
corporate_tax: A previous system was utilised in the United Kingdom, called the advance corporation tax (ACT).
corporate_tax: Some jurisdictions impose time limitations as to when loss deductions may be utilized.
corporate_tax: For example, events related to the formation or reorganization of the corporation, which are treated as capital costs.
corporate_tax: One such case could be the current tax benefits afforded to the oil and gas industry.
