cycling: Other possible accessories for the bicycle include front and rear lights, bells or horns, child carrying seats, cycling computers with GPS, locks, bar tape, fenders (mud-guards), baggage racks, baggage carriers and pannier bags, water bottles and bottle cages.
cycling: As a result, there are various forms of activism focused on diversifying the cycling community.
cycling: NIOSH recommends that riders use a no-nose bicycle seat for workplace bicycling.
cycling: Many road bikes, along with mountain bikes, include clipless pedals to which special shoes attach via a cleat, enabling the rider to pull on the pedals as well as push.
cycling: Cyclists, pedestrians and motorists make different demands on road design which may lead to conflicts.
cycling: However, UCI regulations stipulate a legal race bike cannot weigh less than 6.8 kg (14.99 lbs).
cycling: This suggested that non-physical factors of cycling such as independence, engagement with the outdoor environment, and mobility play a greater role in improving mental health.
cycling: The use of bicycles by police has been increasing, since they provide greater accessibility to bicycle and pedestrian zones and allow access when roads are congested.
cycling: In the Netherlands, many roads have one or two separate cycleways alongside them, or cycle lanes marked on the road.
cycling: Even the prime minister goes to work by bicycle, when weather permits.
cycling: If the rider plans a significant amount of hillclimbing, a triple-chainring crankset gear system may be preferred.
cycling: Physical trauma (extrinsic)
Overuse (intrinsic)
cycling: Many cyclists suffer from overuse injuries to the knees, affecting cyclists at all levels.
cycling: Conversely, an absence of secure cycle-parking is a recurring complaint by cyclists from cities with low modal share of cycling.
cycling: As a form of cardiovascular exercise, it also improves blood circulation and works many muscles in the body.
cycling: In wet weather, riding can be more tolerable with waterproof clothes, such as cape, jacket, trousers (pants) and overshoes and high-visibility clothing is advisable to reduce the risk from motor vehicle users.
cycling: In its 1937 invasion of China, Japan employed some 50,000 bicycle troops, and similar forces were instrumental in Japan's march or "roll" through Malaya in World War II.
cycling: The postal services of many countries have long relied on bicycles.
cycling: Some countries require cyclists to wear helmets, as this may protect riders from head injuries.
cycling: Given that many journeys are for relatively short distances, there is considerable scope to replace car use with walking or cycling, though in many settings this may require some infrastructure modification, particularly to attract the less experienced and confident.
cycling: Road bikes are designed for speed and efficiency on paved roads.
cycling: Otherwise, the relatively lighter, simpler, and less expensive double chainring is preferred, even on high-end race bikes.
cycling: Some bicycle clubs and national associations became prominent advocates for improvements to roads and highways.
cycling: Bikes can also be heavily customized, with different seat designs and handle bars, for example.
cycling: However, excessive cycling while standing can cause knee damage It used to be thought that cycling while standing was less energy efficient, but recent research has proven this not to be true.
cycling: Injuries (to cyclists, from cycling) can be divided into two types:
cycling: Critical Mass is an event typically held on the last Friday of every month in cities around the world where bicyclists take to the streets en masse.
cycling: In the US, bicycling fatality rates are less than 2/3 of those walking the same distance.
cycling: Despite the risk factors associated with bicycling, cyclists have a lower overall mortality rate when compared to other groups.
cycling: and Japan as well.
cycling: Cycling in the Netherlands is often safer than in other parts of the world, so the risk-benefit ratio will be different in other regions.
cycling: Gears can also be customized to better suit the rider's strength in relation to the terrain.
cycling: Cycling on stationary bikes have also been used as part of rehabilitation for lower limb injuries, particularly after hip surgery.
cycling: Extensive cycling infrastructure may be found in some cities.
cycling: A Dutch study found that cycling can extend lifespans by up to 14 months, but the risks equated to a reduced lifespan of 40 days or less.
cycling: Downhill mountain biking has just evolved in the recent years and is performed at places such as Whistler Mountain Bike Park.
cycling: One popular approach to riding in motor vehicle traffic is vehicular cycling, occupying road space as car does.
cycling: Cyclocross races feature human-made features such as small barriers which riders either bunny hop over or dismount and walk over.
cycling: A follow-up found that 90% of bicycle officers who tried the no-nose seat were using it six months later.
cycling: The physical exercise gained from cycling is generally linked with increased health and well-being.
cycling: Costs vary from city to city.
cycling: Thus, after improving these 5 factors, they found much more recreational benefits to bicycle tourism.
cycling: In the UK, fatality rates per mile or kilometre are slightly less than those for walking.
cycling: However, in the UK for example the fatality and serious injury rates per hour of travel are just over double for cycling than those for walking.
cycling: Riding a bicycle is a very low carbon-intense form of travel with average emissions of 17 g CO₂e/km.
cycling: Cycling is practised around the world for purposes including transport, recreation, exercise, and competitive sport.
cycling: In World War I, France, Germany, Australia and New Zealand used bicycles to move troops.
cycling: Thus, the environment plays a huge role in people's decision factor to use bicycle touring more.
cycling: Since the bicycle is so effective as a means of transportation, various companies have developed methods of carrying anything from the weekly shop to children on bicycles.
cycling: In Europe, Denmark and the Netherlands have the most bicycles per capita and most often use bicycles for everyday transport.
cycling: Utility cycling refers both to cycling as a mode of daily commuting transport as well as the use of a bicycle in a commercial activity, mainly to transport goods, mostly accomplished in an urban environment.
cycling: In Australia, Australia Post has also reintroduced bicycle postal deliveries on some routes due to an inability to recruit sufficient licensed riders willing to use their uncomfortable motorbikes.
cycling: One popular Dutch pleasure is the enjoyment of relaxed cycling in the countryside of the Netherlands.
cycling: A study conducted in Taiwan improved the environmental quality for bicyclist tourists which demonstrated greater health benefits in tourists and even in natives.
cycling: In this it has taken over many of the functions of horses in warfare.
cycling: By fitting bicycle racks on the front of buses, transit agencies can significantly increase the areas they can serve.
cycling: At the Mercedes-Benz factory in Sindelfingen, Germany, workers use bicycles, color-coded by department, to move around the factory.
cycling: Overall, benefits of cycling or walking have been shown to exceed risks by ratios of 9:1 to 96:1 when compared with no exercise at all, including a wide variety of physical and mental outcomes.
cycling: Selecting too high a gear.
cycling: Cycling on a stationary cycle is frequently advocated as a suitable exercise for rehabilitation, particularly for lower limb injury, owing to the low impact which it has on the joints.
cycling: In some cases, bicycle officers have been used as a supplement or a replacement for horseback officers.
cycling: Utility bicycles tend to be equipped with accessories such as mudguards, pannier racks and lights, which extend their usefulness on a daily basis.
cycling: Bicycle touring, also known as cyclotourism, involves touring and exploration or sightseeing by bicycle for leisure.
cycling: Their model for political organization, as well as the paved roads for which they argued, facilitated the growth of the automobile.
cycling: Track bicycles are used for track cycling in Velodromes, while cyclo-cross races are held on outdoor terrain, including pavement, grass, and mud.
cycling: Drivers are at fault in the majority of these crashes.
cycling: According to figures from a 2011 ECF-publication, updated with respect to electrical energy required, over their full life-cycle electric bicycles on average emit 15 g CO₂e/km, including 7 g for manufacturing, 2 g for electric energy production and 6 g for food production.
cycling: (Ballantine, 1972) The bicycle is an inexpensive, fast, healthy and environmentally friendly mode of transport.
cycling: Other common types of bikes include gravel bikes, designed for use on gravel roads or trails, but with the ability to ride well on pavement; mountain bikes, which are designed for more rugged, undulating terrain; and e-bikes, which provide some level of motorized assist for the rider.
cycling: When cycling, cyclists take into account the safety on the road, bicycle lanes, road surface quality, diverse scenery, and ride length.
cycling: Routes can vary by as much as 100 miles (160 km).
cycling: Some authors have claimed this to be untrue, showing that the pollutant and irritant count within cars is consistently higher, presumably because of limited circulation of air within the car and due to the air intake being directly in the stream of other traffic.
cycling: In Shanghai, where bicycles were once the dominant mode of transport, bicycle travel on a few city roads was banned temporarily in December 2003.
cycling: Cyclists form associations, both for specific interests (trails development, road maintenance, bike maintenance, urban design, racing clubs, touring clubs, etc.) and for more global goals (energy conservation, pollution reduction, promotion of fitness).
cycling: Yet acceleration from a low to a slightly higher speed is almost instantaneous and because of air resistance any desired level of exertion can be reached, or reduced at will.
cycling: Joint pain and numbness are also early signs of overuse injury.
cycling: Cycling up and out of the saddle, on the other hand, does a better job by transferring more of the rider's body weight to the legs.
cycling: Large races became popular during the 1890s "Golden Age of Cycling", with events across Europe, and in the U.S.
cycling: The British Royal Mail first started using bicycles in 1880; now bicycle delivery fleets include 37,000 in the UK, 25,700 in Germany, 10,500 in Hungary and 7000 in Sweden.
cycling: Rides usually consist of several different routes, sorted by mileage, and with a certain number of rest stops that usually include refreshments, first aid and maintenance tools.
cycling: Paris–Brest–Paris (PBP), which began in 1891, is the oldest bicycling event still run on a regular basis on the open road, covers over 1,200 km (746 mi) and imposes a 90-hour time limit.
cycling: Although a majority of bicycle collisions occur during the day, bicycle lighting is recommended for safety when bicycling at night to increase visibility.
cycling: Alternately, in countries such as Denmark and the Netherlands, where cycling is popular, cyclists are often segregated into bike lanes at the side of, or more often separate from, main highways and roads.
cycling: In the Vietnam War, communist forces used bicycles extensively as cargo carriers along the Ho Chi Minh Trail.
cycling: Although cycling is beneficial to health, men can be negatively affected by cycling more than three hours a week due to the significant weight on their perineum, an area located between the scrotum and the anus which hold some of the nerves and arteries that pass to the penis.
cycling: A 25 to 35-degree knee angle is recommended to avoid an overuse injury.
cycling: The bicycle has been used as a method of reconnaissance as well as transporting soldiers and supplies to combat zones.
cycling: Shortly after the introduction of bicycles, competitions developed independently in many parts of the world.
cycling: Bicycles are often used by people seeking to improve their fitness and cardiovascular health.
cycling: It is generally agreed that improved local and inter-city rail services and other methods of mass transportation (including greater provision for cycle carriage on such services) create conditions to encourage bicycle use.
cycling: They favor a more holistic approach based on the 4 'E's: education (of everyone involved), encouragement (to apply the education), enforcement (to protect the rights of others), and engineering (to facilitate travel while respecting every person's equal right to do so).
cycling: An Italian study assessed the impact of cycling for commute on major non-communicable diseases and public healthcare costs.
cycling: Cycling for transport and touring is promoted on a European level by the European Cyclists' Federation, with associated members from Great Britain, Japan and elsewhere.
cycling: Cycling can be more efficient and comfortable with special shoes, gloves, and shorts.
cycling: Much simpler fixed-wheel bikes are also available.
cycling: Certain countries rely heavily on bicycles and their culture has developed around the bicycle as a primary form of transport.
cycling: The London Ambulance Service has recently introduced bicycling paramedics, who can often get to the scene of an incident in Central London more quickly than a motorized ambulance.
cycling: And, the development of computer vision and street view imagery has provided significant potential to assess infrastructure for cyclists.
cycling: In jurisdictions where motor vehicles were given priority, cycling has tended to decline while in jurisdictions where cycling infrastructure was built, cycling rates have remained steady or increased.
cycling: Most cities in the West, and many outside it, support a industry of cycle couriers who deliver documents and small packages.
cycling: The land is very flat and full of public bicycle trails and cycle tracks where cyclists are not bothered by cars and other traffic, which makes it ideal for cycling recreation.
cycling: Damage to the ulnar nerve in the palm, carpal tunnel in the wrist, the genitourinary tract or bicycle seat neuropathy may result from overuse.
cycling: Bikes are changed for time trial races, using aero bars.
cycling: Early races involving boneshaker style bicycles were predictably fraught with injuries.
cycling: Today, over 50 percent of the human population knows how to ride a bike.
cycling: Researchers used three cognitive assessments: Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Fuld object memory evaluation, and symbol digit modality test.
cycling: Most cycle deaths result from a collision with a car or heavy goods vehicle.
cycling: In extreme cases, pudendal nerve entrapment can be a source of intractable perineal pain.
cycling: Anti-cycling sentiment
Bicycle culture
Cyclability
Cycle sport
Cycling advocacy
Cycling in the Netherlands
Cycling mobility
Fancy Women Bike Ride
History of cycling
List of bicycle-sharing systems
List of films about bicycles and cycling
Masters cycling
Right to mobility
Outline of bicycles
cycling: The comfortable level of exertion is higher than for most other physical activities because of the very effective convective cooling of the body by the air flow from the forward motion.
cycling: Typically these feature utilitarian city bikes which lock into docking stations, released on payment for set time periods.
cycling: This saves the lives of 6,000 citizens per year, prolongs life expectancy by 6 months, saves the country 20 million dollars per year, and prevents 150 grams of CO2 from being emitted per kilometer of cycling.
cycling: In 2020, due to COVID-19, mountain bikes saw a surge in popularity in the US, with some vendors reporting that they were sold out of bikes under US$1000.
cycling: Even for trips of the same distance and among people from the same city with the same income level, those with higher education cycle more.
cycling: Someone starting out in cycling must be careful to increase length and frequency of cycling sessions slowly, starting for example at an hour or two per day, or a hundred miles or kilometers per week.
cycling: In many countries, the most commonly used vehicle for road transport is a utility bicycle.
cycling: Note that overuse is a relative term, and capacity varies greatly between individuals.
cycling: Most mountain biking takes place on dirt roads, trails and in purpose-built parks.
cycling: The WHO's 2009 report suggests that increasing physical activity is a public health "best buy", and that cycling is a "highly suitable activity" for this purpose.
cycling: A European study surveying participants from seven cities about self-perceived health based on primary modes of transportation reported favorable results in the bicycle use population.
cycling: One of the profound economic implications of cycling is that it liberates the users from motor fuel consumption.
cycling: It has been estimated that, on average, approximately 20 life-years are gained from the health benefits of road bicycling for every life-year lost through injury.
cycling: Some groups offer training courses to help cyclists integrate themselves with other traffic.
cycling: Some jurisdictions give priority to motorized traffic, for example setting up one-way street systems, free-right turns, high capacity roundabouts, and slip roads.
cycling: Road bikes are ideal for racing, long-distance riding, and fitness training.
cycling: In some countries these may be known as bicycle rodeos, or operated as schemes such as Bikeability in the UK.
cycling: Other than air resistance, there is no wasted energy from cycling while standing, if it is done correctly.
cycling: Such dedicated paths in some cities often have to be shared with in-line skaters, scooters, skateboarders, and pedestrians.
cycling: A Danish study in 2000 found that even after adjustment for other risk factors, including leisure time physical activity, those who did not cycle to work experienced a 39% higher mortality rate than those who did.
cycling: They range from the one-day road race, criterium, and time trial to multi-stage events like the Tour de France and its sister events which make up cycling's Grand Tours.
cycling: Recent studies on the use of cycling for commutes have shown that it reduces the risk of cardiovascular outcomes by 11%, with slightly more risk reduction in women than in men.
cycling: This will thin out over the course of the ride.
cycling: The bicycle use group reported predominantly good self-perceived health, less perceived stress, better mental health, better vitality, and less loneliness.
cycling: Bicycle tourism has been one of the most popular sports for recreational benefit.
cycling: There is a long-running cycle helmet debate among activists.
cycling: Illinois designated cycling as its official state exercise in 2007.
cycling: For basic maintenance and repairs cyclists can carry a pump (or a CO2 cartridge), a puncture repair kit, a spare inner tube, and tire levers and a set of allen keys.
cycling: The number of bicyclists in Taiwan increased from 700,000 in 2008 to 5.1 million in 2017.
cycling: A number of cities, including Paris, London and Barcelona, now have successful bike hire schemes designed to help people cycle in the city.
cycling: Road races may involve both team and individual competition, and are contested in various ways.
cycling: A middle-grade derailleur is sufficient for a beginner, although many utility bikes are equipped with hub gears.
cycling: Germany used bicycles again in World War II, while the British employed airborne "Cycle-commandos" with folding bikes.
cycling: The provision of cycling infrastructure varies widely between cities and countries, particularly since cycling for transportation almost entirely occurs in public streets.
cycling: One example is the monthly San Jose Bike Party which can reach attendance of one to two thousand riders in Summer months.
cycling: Professional racing organizations place limitations on the bicycles that can be used in the races that they sanction.
cycling: Cycling is also used for rehabilitation after hip surgery to manage soft-tissue healing, control swelling and pain, and allow a larger range of motion to the nearby muscles earlier during recovery.
cycling: Some activists, especially those from the vehicular cycling tradition, view the safety, practicality, and intent of such facilities with suspicion.
cycling: This model estimated that public healthcare costs would reduce by 5% over a 10-year period.
cycling: When falling off a bike, a cyclist that instinctively tries to break their fall with an outstretched hand, can sustain a Fall Onto Out-Stretched Hand (FOOSH) injury, commonly resulting in wrist sprains and fractures.
cycling: Dedicated cycling infrastructure is treated differently in the law of every jurisdiction, including the question of liability of users in a collision.
cycling: These are caused by many factors:
cycling: In London, initial hire access costs £2 per day.
cycling: The last country known to maintain a regiment of bicycle troops was Switzerland, which disbanded its last unit in 2003.
cycling: Case studies and good practices (from European cities and some worldwide examples) that promote and stimulate this kind of functional cycling in cities can be found at Eltis, Europe's portal for local transport.
cycling: Bicycles enjoy use as general delivery vehicles in many countries.
cycling: In Bogotá, Colombia, the city's largest bakery recently replaced most of its delivery trucks with bicycles.
cycling: This study used many questionnaires and conducted statistical analysis to come up with the conclusion of cyclists' top 5 factors that they consider before making a decision to bike are: safety, lighting facility, design of lanes, the surrounding landscape, and how clean the environment is.
cycling: Using a health economic assessment model, the study found a lower incidence of type 2 diabetes, acute myocardial infarction, and stroke in individuals that cycled compared to those that did not actively commute.
cycling: It did, however, find that both cyclists groups had improved executive function and well-being, both with greater improvement in the e-bike group.
cycling: A 15-month randomized controlled trial in the U.S.
cycling: The most heated controversy surrounds the topic of compulsory helmet use.
cycling: Local governments promote cycling by permitting bicycles to be carried on public transport or by providing external attachment devices on public transport vehicles.
cycling: For example, a rider with access to climate-neutral food and electricity might emit as little as 7 g CO₂e/km, whereas one eating beef might cause emissions of 570 g CO₂e/km if other things remain equal.
cycling: The UCI rules also effectively ban some bicycle frame innovations (such as the recumbent bicycle) by requiring a double triangle structure.
cycling: Cycling while seated is a relatively non-weight bearing exercise that, like swimming, does little to promote bone density.
cycling: An incidental experience for Street Riders NYC protest participants is the inequity in where safe bicycling infrastructure exists by neighbourhood, which is interpreted as a form of classism within cycling and urbanism.
cycling: Inspired by the Black Lives Matter movement are organizations such as Street Riders NYC that seek to protest while on bicycles about systemic racism and police brutality.
cycling: Recumbent bicycles are designed on different ergonomic principles and eliminate pressure from the saddle and handlebars, due to the relaxed riding position.
cycling: Cycling, also known as bicycling or biking, is the activity of riding a bicycle or other types of pedal-driven human-powered vehicles such as balance bikes, unicycles, tricycles, and quadricycles.
cycling: Poor training preparation for long touring rides.
cycling: The study did not find significant differences in spatial reasoning or memory tests.
cycling: There are additional variations of bikes and types of biking as well.
cycling: On roads where adjacent bike paths or cycle tracks exist, the use of these facilities is compulsory, and cycling on the main carriageway is not permitted.
cycling: An incorrectly fitted saddle may eventually lead to muscle imbalance.
cycling: The goal of these sessions are to reduce joint inflammation and maintain the widest range of motion possible with limited pain.
cycling: Many Dutch people subscribe every year to an event called fietsvierdaagse — four days of organised cycling through the local environment.
cycling: According to the World Health Organization (WHO), physical inactivity is second only to tobacco smoking as a health risk in developed countries, and is associated with 20–30% increased risk of various cancers, heart disease, and diabetes and tens of billions of dollars of healthcare costs.
cycling: In India, many of Mumbai's Dabbawalas use bicycles to deliver home cooked lunches to the city's workers.
cycling: Occasionally, extreme measures against cycling may occur.
cycling: Individuals who cycle regularly have also reported mental health improvements, including less perceived stress and better vitality.
cycling: Fitting a proper sized seat can prevent this effect.
cycling: As soon as any of these listed factors become less favorable, motivation to cycle reduces, but can be increased again, for example with more specialized bicycles or suitable clothing.
cycling: Bicycles provide numerous possible benefits in comparison with motor vehicles, including the sustained physical exercise involved in cycling, easier parking, increased maneuverability, and access to roads, bike paths and rural trails.
cycling: Many broad and correlated themes run in bicycle activism: one is about advocating the bicycle as an alternative mode of transport, and another is about the creation of conditions to permit and/or encourage bicycle use, both for utility and recreational cycling.
cycling: Cycling suffers from a perception that it is unsafe.
cycling: In particular, cycling is commonly used within knee rehabilitation programs, to strengthen the quadriceps muscles with minimal stress on the knee ligaments.
cycling: There is also some debate about the safety of the various types of separated facilities.
cycling: The significance of the associated health effect, if any, is unclear but probably much smaller than the health impacts associated with accidents and the health benefits derived from additional physical activity.
cycling: Education for adult cyclists is available from organizations such as the League of American Bicyclists.
cycling: Their study found that using bicycle seats without protruding noses reduced pressure on the groin by at least 65% and significantly reduced the number of cases of urogenital paresthesia.
cycling: Other authors have found small or inconsistent differences in concentrations but claim that exposure of cyclists is higher due to increased minute ventilation and is associated with minor biological changes.
cycling: In 1899, Charles Minthorn Murphy became the first man to ride his bicycle a mile in under a minute (hence his nickname, Mile-a-Minute Murphy), which he did by drafting a locomotive at New York's Long Island.
cycling: Overuse injuries, including chronic nerve damage at weight bearing locations, can occur as a result of repeatedly riding a bicycle for extended periods of time.
cycling: Since cycling can be used for the practical purpose of transportation, there can be less need for self-discipline to exercise.
cycling: Bicycles are used for recreation at all ages.
cycling: Thus, this resulted in more and safer bicycle routes to be established.
cycling: Whether riding a purely human-powered or an electric bicycle results in fewer emissions depends on the type of food eaten and/or the type of electricity used.
cycling: In the past decade, mountain bike racing has also reached international popularity and is even an Olympic sport.
cycling: A brevet or randonnée is an organized long-distance ride.
cycling: In the United States, the League of American Wheelmen (founded in 1880 and changing to the League of American Bicyclists in 1994) lobbied for the improvement of roads in the last part of the 19th century, founding and leading the national Good Roads Movement.
cycling: Regular conferences on cycling as transport are held under the auspices of Velo City; global conferences are coordinated by Velo Mondial.
cycling: In the Second Boer War, both sides used bicycles for scouting.
cycling: They are characterized by their lightweight frames, skinny tires, drop handlebars, and narrow saddles.
cycling: Many primary schools participate in the national road test in which children individually complete a circuit on roads near the school while being observed by testers.
cycling: Incorrect adjustment of clipless pedals.
cycling: In addition, cycling is especially helpful for those with arthritis of the lower limbs who are unable to pursue sports that cause impact to the knees and other joints.
cycling: Items legally required in some jurisdictions, or voluntarily adopted for safety reasons, include bicycle helmets, generator or battery operated lights, reflectors, and audible signalling devices such as a bell or horn.
cycling: Extras include studded tires and a bicycle computer.
cycling: There are several disciplines of mountain biking besides downhill, including: cross country (often referred to as XC), all mountain, trail, free ride, and newly popular enduro.
cycling: The most famous of all bicycle races is the Tour de France.
cycling: Time trial races, another form of road racing require a rider to ride against the clock.
cycling: A quarter of all trips in the country are made on bicycles, one quarter of them to work.
cycling: Too many hills, or too many miles, too early in the training season.
cycling: Some bicycle activists (including some traffic management advisers) seek the construction of bike paths, cycle tracks and bike lanes for journeys of all lengths and point to their success in promoting safety and encouraging more people to cycle.
cycling: The design, coupled with low or dropped handlebars, requires the rider to bend forward more, making use of stronger muscles (particularly the gluteus maximus) and reducing air resistance at high speed.
cycling: Most organized rides, for example cyclosportives (or gran fondos), Challenge Rides or reliability trials, and hill climbs include registration requirements and will provide information either through the mail or online concerning start times and other requirements.
cycling: Others share priority with cyclists so as to encourage more cycling by applying varying combinations of traffic calming measures to limit the impact of motorized transport, and by building bike lanes, bike paths and cycle tracks.
cycling: The most common injury sites were the neck (48.8%) and the knees (41.7%), as well as the groin/buttocks (36.1%), hands (31.1%), and back (30.3%).
cycling: Despite rumors to the contrary, there is no scientific evidence linking cycling with testicular cancer.
cycling: Some cyclists with induced pudendal nerve pressure neuropathy gained relief from improvements in saddle position and riding techniques.
cycling: examined the impact of self-paced cycling on cognitive function in institutionalized older adults without cognitive impairment.
cycling: This perception is not always backed by hard numbers, because of under reporting of crashes and lack of bicycle use data (amount of cycling, kilometers cycled) which make it hard to assess the risk and monitor changes in risks.
cycling: A lower gear for uphill climb protects the knees, even though muscles may be well able to handle a higher gear.
cycling: Some organized rides are entirely social events.
cycling: Beyond simply riding, another skill is riding efficiently and safely in traffic.
cycling: This began in 1903, and continues to capture the attention of the sporting world.
cycling: The study found that long-term cycling for at least 15 minutes per day in older adults without cognitive impairment had a protective effect on cognition and attention.
cycling: These include cycling infrastructure including surface, urban road space allocation and parking, perceived traffic safety, weather and climate, personal fitness, motivation and situation, route type including length and steepness, and the physical performance of the vehicle(s) available.
cycling: Cycling became popularized in Europe and North America in the latter part and especially the last decade of the 19th century.
cycling: The first 30 minutes of each trip is free, with £2 for each additional 30 minutes until the bicycle is returned.
cycling: Cycling has also been shown to be effective adjunct therapy in certain mental health conditions.
cycling: The car industry also uses bicycles.
cycling: Being measured for a bike and taking it for a test ride are recommended before buying.
cycling: Many riders choose to ride together in groups of the same skill level to take advantage of drafting.
cycling: These have frames with relaxed geometry, protecting the rider from shocks of the road and easing steering at low speeds.
cycling: In the United Kingdom and North America, as their first jobs, teenagers have worked at delivering newspapers by bicycle.
cycling: However, there are different opinions on the role of various types of cycling infrastructure in building bicycle-friendly cities and roads.
cycling: The charity Sustrans reports that investment in cycling provision can give a 20:1 return from health and other benefits.
cycling: Incorrect bicycle fit or adjustment, particularly the saddle.
cycling: Further stress of the knee can be relieved by changing seat heights and pedal position to improve the rehabilitation.
cycling: The price of a new bicycle can range from US$50 to more than US$20,000 (the highest priced bike in the world is the custom Madone by Damien Hirst, sold at US$500,000), depending on quality, type and weight (the most exotic road bicycles can weigh as little as 3.2 kg (7 lb)).
cycling: Bicycles are considered a sustainable mode of transport, especially suited for urban use and relatively shorter distances when used for transport (compared to recreation).
cycling: The bicycle has acted as a means for women's liberation and thus has links to feminism.
cycling: Recumbent bicycles were banned from bike races in 1934 after Marcel Berthet set a new hour record in his Velodyne streamliner (49.992 km on 18 November 1933).
cycling: Countries which require adult cyclists to wear helmets include Spain, New Zealand and Australia.
cycling: Some 35,000 km of cycle-track has been physically segregated from motor traffic, equal to a quarter of the country's entire 140,000 km road network.
cycling: Road bikes tend to have a more upright shape and a shorter wheelbase, which make the bike more mobile but harder to ride slowly.
cycling: This can be reduced further with electric power-assist if green electricity is used with lower emissions than for the food then not used, and the difference also compensates the production of the extra electrical components.
cycling: The health benefits of cycling outweigh the risks, when cycling is compared to a sedentary lifestyle.
cycling: As the bicycle evolved its various forms, different racing formats developed.
cycling: One such protocol offered by Mayo Clinic recommends 2–4 weeks of cycling on an upright stationary bike following hip arthroscopy, starting from 5 minutes per session and slowly increasing to 30 minutes per session.
cycling: It is paradoxical that in many developing countries cycling is in decline as bicycles are replaced by motorbikes and cars, while in many developed countries cycling is on the rise.
cycling: In areas in which cycling is popular and encouraged, cycle-parking facilities using bicycle stands, lockable mini-garages, and patrolled cycle parks are used to reduce theft.
cycling: Mortality rate reduction was found to be directly correlated to the average time spent cycling, totaling to approximately 6500 deaths prevented by cycling.
cycling: Bilateral muscular pain is a normal by-product of the training process, whereas unilateral pain may reveal "exercise-induced arterial endofibrosis".
cycling: Ivan Illich stated that bicycle use extended the usable physical environment for people, while alternatives such as cars and motorways degraded and confined people's environment and mobility.
cycling: These have a lower financial cost for users as well as for society at large (negligible damage to roads, less road area required).
cycling: A 2010 study estimated that the gained life expectancy from the health benefits of cycling (approximately 3–14 months gained) greatly exceeded the lost life expectancy from air pollution (approximately 0.8–40 days lost).
cycling: The typical organized ride starts with a large group of riders, called the mass, bunch or even peloton.
cycling: As a result, many institutions have established a rehabilitation protocol that involves stationary cycling as part of the recovery process.
cycling: Slopestyle, a form of downhill, is when riders do tricks such as tailwhips, 360s, backflips and front flips.
cycling: While the ride was founded with the idea of drawing attention to how unfriendly the city was to bicyclists, the leaderless structure of Critical Mass makes it impossible to assign it any one specific goal.
cycling: In Europe, the European Cyclists' Federation represents around 70 local, regional and national civil society organisations across more than 40 countries that work to promote cycling as a mode of transport and leisure.
cycling: Time trials can be performed as a team or as a single rider.
cycling: The study attributed these results to possible economic benefits and senses of both independence and identity as a member of a cyclist community.
cycling: For example, the Union Cycliste Internationale, the governing body of international cycle sport (which sanctions races such as the Tour de France), decided in the late 1990s to create additional rules which prohibit racing bicycles weighing less than 6.8 kilograms (14.96 pounds).
cycling: Women were more likely to suffer from neck and shoulder pain than men.
cycling: Segregated cycling infrastructure reduces the rate of crashes between bicycles and motor vehicles.
cycling: Cycling also offers a reduced consumption of fossil fuels, less air and noise pollution, reduced greenhouse gas emissions, and greatly reduced traffic congestion.
cycling: Excessive saddle height can cause posterior knee pain, while setting the saddle too low can cause pain in the anterior of the knee.
cycling: Although the first emphasizes the potential for energy and resource conservation and health benefits gained from cycling versus automobile use, is relatively undisputed, the second is the subject of much debate.
cycling: The drivetrain components of the bike should also be considered.
cycling: London has many delivery companies that use bicycles with trailers.
cycling: Similar if smaller institutions exist in many countries.
cycling: In fact, the purpose of Critical Mass is not formalized beyond the direct action of meeting at a set location and time and traveling as a group through city streets.
cycling: A Spanish study of top triathletes found those who cover more than 186 miles (300 km) a week on their bikes have less than 4% normal looking sperm, where normal adult males would be expected to have from 15% to 20%.
