cyclone: On the other end of the spectrum, if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall, the system weakens and eventually dissipates.
cyclone: Others form when other types of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics.
cyclone: The term "cyclone" refers to the storms' cyclonic nature, with counterclockwise rotation in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise rotation in the Southern Hemisphere.
cyclone: Cyclogenesis is the process of cyclone formation and intensification.
cyclone: Air rises and rotates around a vertical axis, usually in the same direction as low-pressure systems in both northern and southern hemisphere.
cyclone: Cyclones are not unique to Earth.
cyclone: Dust devils form from a warm surface during sunny days, often in an area where surface types change, and require the surrounding air to be unstable, dissipating when conditions become more stable; they therefore often from in deserts.
cyclone: Near the center, the pressure gradient force (from the pressure in the center of the cyclone compared to the pressure outside the cyclone) and the force from the Coriolis effect must be in an approximate balance, or the cyclone would collapse on itself as a result of the difference in pressure.
cyclone: The disturbance can grow into a wave-like formation along the front and the low is positioned at the crest.
cyclone: Mars has also exhibited cyclonic storms.
cyclone: A polar, sub-polar, or Arctic cyclone (also known as a polar vortex) is a vast area of low pressure that strengthens in the winter and weakens in the summer.
cyclone: Downward development results in an increase of cumulus clouds and the appearance of a surface vortex.
cyclone: Antarctic systems tend to be weaker than their northern counterparts since the air-sea temperature differences around the continent are generally smaller.
cyclone: Polar lows have been referred to by many other terms, such as polar mesoscale vortex, Arctic hurricane, Arctic low, and cold air depression.
cyclone: The word was coined by Henry Piddington, an official in the British East India Company who published 40 papers dealing with tropical storms from Calcutta between 1836 and 1855 in The Journal of the Asiatic Society.
cyclone: Cyclonic storms are common on giant planets, such as the Small Dark Spot on Neptune.
cyclone: About 1,700 mesocyclones form annually across the United States, but only half produce tornadoes.
cyclone: Polar lows dissipate rapidly when they make landfall.
cyclone: Usually, the cold front moves at a quicker pace than the warm front and "catches up" with it due to the slow erosion of higher density air mass out ahead of the cyclone.
cyclone: Many tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable.
cyclone: A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center and numerous thunderstorms that produce strong winds and flooding rain.
cyclone: When the polar cyclone is weak, significant cold outbreaks occur.
cyclone: They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters, European windstorms, and polar lows, leading to their classification as "warm core" storm systems.
cyclone: They also carry heat and energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes, which makes them an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism.
cyclone: Storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to 40 kilometres (25 mi) from the coastline.
cyclone: This appearance is caused by a white cloud in the middle of the Wizard's Eye.
cyclone: However, this is inaccurate, as the Great Red Spot is, in fact, the inverse phenomenon, an anticyclone.
cyclone: A weak inverted surface trough within the trade wind is generally found underneath them, and they may also be associated with broad areas of high-level clouds.
cyclone: Cyclones have also been seen on planets other than the Earth, such as Mars, Jupiter, and Neptune.
cyclone: A cyclone's center (often known in a mature tropical cyclone as the eye), is the area of lowest atmospheric pressure in the region.
cyclone: The mechanisms by which tropical cyclogenesis occurs are distinctly different from those that produce mid-latitude cyclones.
cyclone: A particularly intense type of extratropical cyclone that strikes during winter is known colloquially as a nor'easter.
cyclone: A tropical cyclone feeds on heat released when moist air rises, resulting in condensation of water vapour contained in the moist air.
cyclone: The systems usually have a horizontal length scale of less than 1,000 kilometres (620 mi) and exist for no more than a couple of days.
cyclone: The cold front over takes the warm front, and reduces the length of the warm front.
cyclone: Tropical cyclogenesis describes the process of development of tropical cyclones.
cyclone: Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the troposphere; if the conditions remain favorable, the tropical disturbance intensifies, and can even develop an eye.
cyclone: Most dust devils are between 10 ft (3.0 m) and 300 ft (91 m) wide, and between 500 ft (150 m) and 1,000 ft (300 m) tall, although the strongest can be several thousand feet tall.
cyclone: Since they form from extratropical cyclones, which have colder temperatures aloft than normally found in the tropics, the sea surface temperatures required is around 23 degrees Celsius (73 °F) for their formation, which is  three degrees Celsius (5 °F) lower than for tropical cyclones.
cyclone: There are three main types of surface-based cyclones: extratropical cyclones, subtropical cyclones and tropical cyclones.
cyclone: These systems may also be described as "mid-latitude cyclones" due to their area of formation, or "post-tropical cyclones" when a tropical cyclone has moved (extratropical transition) beyond the tropics.
cyclone: They have broad wind patterns with maximum sustained winds located farther from the center than typical tropical cyclones, and exist in areas of weak to moderate temperature gradient.
cyclone: In rare cases, they become warm-core tropical cyclones.
cyclone: A polar cyclone is a low-pressure weather system, usually spanning 1,000 kilometres (620 mi) to 2,000 kilometres (1,200 mi), in which the air circulates in a counterclockwise direction in the northern hemisphere, and a clockwise direction in the southern hemisphere.
cyclone: A cold front appears on the west side, while a warm front forms on the east side.
cyclone: The Coriolis acceleration acting on  the air masses moving poleward at high altitude, causes a counterclockwise circulation at high altitude.
cyclone: Waterspouts can also form from mesocyclones, but more often develop from environments of high instability and low vertical wind shear.
cyclone: A mesocyclone is a vortex of air, 2.0 kilometres (1.2 mi) to 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) in diameter (the mesoscale of meteorology), within a convective storm.
cyclone: Mesoscale convective systems can spawn surface lows that are initially warm-core.
cyclone: Tropical cyclogenesis is the development and strengthening of a tropical cyclone.
cyclone: A tropical cyclone is usually not considered to become subtropical during its extratropical transition.
cyclone: These upper tropospheric cyclonic vortices, also known as TUTT cells or TUTT lows, usually move slowly from east-northeast to west-southwest, and their bases generally do not extend below 20,000 feet (6,100 m) in altitude.
cyclone: Around the low, the flow becomes cyclonic.
cyclone: An extratropical cyclone can transform into a subtropical storm, and from there into a tropical cyclone, if it dwells over warm waters sufficient to warm its core, and as a result develops central convection.
cyclone: Developing tropical disturbances can help create or deepen upper troughs or upper lows in their wake due to the outflow jet emanating from the developing tropical disturbance/cyclone.
cyclone: Depending on their location and strength, tropical cyclones are referred to by other names, such as hurricane, typhoon, tropical storm, cyclonic storm, tropical depression, or simply as a cyclone.
cyclone: Today the term is usually reserved for the more vigorous systems that have near-surface winds of at least 17 m/s (38 mph; 61 km/h).
cyclone: One center lies near Baffin Island and the other over northeast Siberia.
cyclone: They usually dissipate after only a few minutes, but stronger dust devils can last over an hour.
cyclone: Heavy rains, however, can produce significant flooding inland.
cyclone: A steam devil is a gentle vortex over calm water or wet land that is made visible by rising water vapour.
cyclone: Cyclogenesis is the development or strengthening of cyclonic circulation in the atmosphere.
cyclone: Although their effects on human populations can be devastating, tropical cyclones can also relieve drought conditions.
cyclone: Cyclolysis is the opposite of cyclogenesis, and is the high-pressure system equivalent, which deals with the formation of high-pressure areas—anticyclogenesis.
cyclone: A tropical cyclone can become extratropical as it moves toward higher latitudes if its energy source changes from heat released by condensation to differences in temperature between air masses.
cyclone: These are the everyday phenomena that, along with anticyclones, drive weather over much of the Earth.
cyclone: In the Northern Hemisphere, the polar cyclone has two centers on average.
cyclone: In addition, the higher density air mass sweeping in behind the cyclone strengthens the higher pressure, denser cold air mass.
cyclone: While it is often weaker than most of its land counterparts, stronger versions spawned by mesocyclones do occur.
cyclone: Polar lows can be difficult to detect using conventional weather reports and are a hazard to high-latitude operations, such as shipping and gas and oil platforms.
cyclone: In the southern hemisphere, it tends to be located near the edge of the Ross ice shelf near 160 west longitude.
cyclone: As a result, tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the Earth's troposphere.
cyclone: It is about one third the diameter of the Great Dark Spot and received the nickname "Wizard's Eye" because it looks like an eye.
cyclone: Mesocyclones form as warm core cyclones over land, and can lead to tornado formation.
cyclone: Tropical cyclones form due to latent heat driven by significant thunderstorm activity, and are warm core.
cyclone: During winter, when cold-core lows with temperatures in the mid-levels of the troposphere reach −45 °C (−49 °F) move over open waters, deep convection forms, which allows polar low development to become possible.
cyclone: The base of the polar low is in the mid to upper troposphere.
cyclone: For example, the size, intensity, moist-convection, surface evaporation, the value of potential temperature at each potential height can affect the nonlinear evolution of a vortex.
cyclone: An average of 86 tropical cyclones of tropical storm intensity form annually worldwide, with 47 reaching hurricane/typhoon strength, and 20 becoming intense tropical cyclones (at least Category 3 intensity on the Saffir–Simpson hurricane scale).
cyclone: This is the reason coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone, while inland regions are relatively safe from strong winds.
cyclone: A polar low is a small-scale, short-lived atmospheric low-pressure system (depression) that is found over the ocean areas poleward of the main polar front in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres.
cyclone: By 1972, the National Hurricane Center in the United States officially recognized this cyclone category.
cyclone: Storm surges are rises in sea level caused by the reduced pressure of the core that in effect "sucks" the water upward and from winds that in effect "pile" the water up.
cyclone: They are most often cyclonic, that is, associated with a localized low-pressure region within a supercell.
cyclone: Polar lows were first identified on the meteorological satellite imagery that became available in the 1960s, which revealed many small-scale cloud vortices at high latitudes.
cyclone: Occluded fronts form late in the cyclone life cycle near the center of the cyclone and often wrap around the storm center.
cyclone: Cyclones are characterized by inward-spiraling winds that rotate about a zone of low pressure.
cyclone: A subtropical cyclone is a weather system that has some characteristics of a tropical cyclone and some characteristics of an extratropical cyclone.
cyclone: However, vigorous polar lows can be found over the Southern Ocean.
cyclone: A dust devil is a type of vortex that involves debris such as dust being lifted upward into the air.
cyclone: At this point an occluded front forms where the warm air mass is pushed upwards into a trough of warm air aloft, which is also known as a trowal.
cyclone: Cyclones can transition between extratropical, subtropical, and tropical phases.
cyclone: While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful winds and torrential rain, they are also able to produce high waves and a damaging storm surge.
cyclone: They can form between the equator and the 50th parallel.
cyclone: The following types of cyclones are identifiable in synoptic charts.
cyclone: Cyclogenesis is an umbrella term for several different processes that all result in the development of some sort of cyclone.
cyclone: The most active polar lows are found over certain ice-free maritime areas in or near the Arctic during the winter, such as the Norwegian Sea, Barents Sea, Labrador Sea and Gulf of Alaska.
cyclone: Wind speed varies depending on the size of the dust devil; larger ones have winds of at least 60 mph (97 km/h), reaching up to 75 mph (121 km/h).
cyclone: Dust devils have been found on Mars as well as on Earth.
cyclone: Warm fronts move poleward ahead of the cyclone path.
cyclone: In the Northern Hemisphere, the fastest winds relative to the surface of the  Earth therefore occur on the eastern side of a northward-moving cyclone and on the northern side of a westward-moving one; the opposite occurs in the Southern Hemisphere.
cyclone: Tropical cyclones form as a result of significant convective activity, and are warm core.
cyclone: Under specific circumstances, upper level cold lows can break off from the base of the tropical upper tropospheric trough (TUTT), which is located mid-ocean in the Northern Hemisphere during the summer months.
cyclone: Such fronts form west of the circulation center and generally move from west to east; warm fronts form east of the cyclone center and are usually preceded by stratiform precipitation and fog.
cyclone: A waterspout is a columnar vortex forming over water that is, in its most common form, a non-supercell tornado over water that is connected to a cumuliform cloud.
cyclone: This rotational flow moves polar air towards the equator on the west side of the low, while warm air move towards the pole on the east side.
cyclone: Strong cold fronts typically feature narrow bands of thunderstorms and severe weather, and may on occasion be preceded by squall lines or dry lines.
cyclone: A surface low can form in a variety of ways.
cyclone: A fire whirl – also colloquially known as a fire devil, fire tornado, firenado, or fire twister – is a whirlwind induced by a fire and often made up of flame or ash.
cyclone: Mesocyclones often occur together with updrafts in supercells, where tornadoes may form.
cyclone: Because of the Coriolis effect, the wind flow around a large cyclone is counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere.
cyclone: These zones contract and form weather fronts as the cyclonic circulation closes and intensifies.
cyclone: There are a number of structural characteristics common to all cyclones.
cyclone: An extratropical cyclone is a synoptic scale low-pressure weather system that does not have tropical characteristics, as it is connected with fronts and horizontal gradients (rather than vertical) in temperature and dew point otherwise known as "baroclinic zones".
cyclone: Dust devils are smaller than tornadoes and are usually harmless, though stronger ones can destroy small structures.
cyclone: A cyclone is a low-pressure area.
cyclone: The term "tropical" refers to both the geographic origin of these systems, which form almost exclusively in tropical regions of the globe, and their dependence on Maritime Tropical air masses for their formation.
cyclone: They are often described as "depressions" or "lows" by weather forecasters and the general public.
cyclone: Although subtropical storms rarely have hurricane-force winds, they may become tropical in nature as their cores warm.
cyclone: Such storms can feature strong surface winds and severe hail.
cyclone: The poleward movement of air originates from the air circulation of the Polar cell.
cyclone: In meteorology, a cyclone ()  is a large air mass that rotates around a strong center of low atmospheric pressure, counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere as viewed from above (opposite to an anticyclone).
cyclone: This means that subtropical cyclones are more likely to form outside the traditional bounds of the hurricane season.
cyclone: A cyclone's track is guided over the course of its 2 to 6 day life cycle by the steering flow of the subtropical jet stream.
cyclone: Weather fronts mark the boundary between two masses of air of different temperature, humidity, and densities, and are associated with the most prominent meteorological phenomena.
cyclone: They are part of the larger class of mesoscale weather systems.
cyclone: Topography can create a surface low.
cyclone: There are two main requirements for tropical cyclogenesis: sufficiently warm sea surface temperatures, and low vertical wind shear.
cyclone: When the polar vortex is strong, its effect can be felt at the surface as a westerly wind (toward the east).
cyclone: Current map of global mean sea-level pressure
cyclone: Extratropical cyclones begin as waves in large regions of enhanced mid-latitude temperature contrasts called baroclinic zones.
cyclone: "Extratropical" is applied to cyclones outside the tropics, in the middle latitudes.
cyclone: As early as the 1950s, meteorologists were unclear whether they should be characterized as tropical cyclones or extratropical cyclones, and used terms such as quasi-tropical and semi-tropical to describe the cyclone hybrids.
cyclone: Later in their life cycle, extratropical cyclones occlude as cold air masses undercut the warmer air and become cold core systems.
cyclone: The growth of instability in the vortices is not universal.
cyclone: They develop over large bodies of warm water, and hence lose their strength if they move over land.
cyclone: Their winds increase the wave size, and in so doing they draw more heat and moisture into their system, thereby increasing their strength.
cyclone: Subtropical cyclones began to receive names off the official tropical cyclone list in the Atlantic Basin in 2002.
cyclone: Tropical cyclogenesis, the development of a warm-core cyclone, begins with significant convection in a favorable atmospheric environment.
cyclone: Upper cyclones and the upper troughs that trail tropical cyclones can cause additional outflow channels and aid in their intensification.
cyclone: Jovian storms like the Great Red Spot are usually mistakenly named as giant hurricanes or cyclonic storms.
cyclone: The polar low is not driven by convection as are tropical cyclones, nor the cold and warm air mass interactions as are extratropical cyclones, but is an artifact of the global air movement of the Polar cell.
