decolonization: Much of its energy and rapidly expanding population was directed westward across the North American continent against English and French claims,  the Spanish Empire and Mexico.
decolonization: The CFA franc is guaranteed by the French treasury.
decolonization: Its massive oil reserves provided about 14 percent of the Dutch national product and supported a large population of ethnic Dutch government officials and businessmen in Batavia (now Jakarta) and other major cities.
decolonization: Egypt became independent in 1922, although the UK retained security prerogatives, control of the Suez Canal, and effective control of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan.
decolonization: The Non-Aligned Movement constituted itself around the main figures of Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, Sukarno, the Indonesian president, Josip Broz Tito the Communist leader of Yugoslavia, and Gamal Abdel Nasser, head of Egypt.
decolonization: The Haitian Revolution was a revolt in 1789 and subsequent slave uprising in 1791 in the French colony of Saint-Domingue, on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola.
decolonization: Eritrea was merged with Ethiopia in 1952.
decolonization: In 1824, the Spanish forces were defeated in the Battle of Ayacucho.
decolonization: According to an article by scholar John Quintero, "given the modern emphasis on the equality of states and inalienable nature of their sovereignty, many people do not realize that these non-self-governing structures still exist".
decolonization: After the end of World War II, the Viet Minh launched the August Revolution and declared Vietnamese independence in September, although Allied troops reoccupied the territory afterwards.
decolonization: The Native Americans were sent to reservations, often unwillingly.
decolonization: The Philippines built up a new army, under general Douglas MacArthur, who took leave from his U.S.
decolonization: Financial, political and military pressure could still be used to achieve goals desired by the colonizer.
decolonization: After the war, the Japanese colonial empire was dissolved, and national independence movements resisted the re-imposition of colonial control by European countries and the United States.
decolonization: From 1933 to 1974, Portugal was an authoritarian state (ruled by António de Oliveira Salazar).
decolonization: By the 1920s, the peaceful efforts by the Filipino leadership to pursue independence proved convincing.
decolonization: Walton has suggested, instead, the concept of deimperiality to engage critically with the legacies of the Romanov Empire and the Soviet Union in Europe.
decolonization: The colonies remained independent during the war, while Belgium was occupied by the Germans.
decolonization: Most of Africa's island countries had also become independent, although Réunion and Mayotte remain part of France.
decolonization: In the aftermath, the Netherlands prospered greatly in the 1950s and 1960s but nevertheless public opinion was bitterly hostile to the United States for betrayal.
decolonization: India and Pakistan fought several wars over the former princely state of Jammu and Kashmir.
decolonization: Thus, nationalism in the colonies became stronger in between the two wars, leading to Abd el-Krim's Rif War (1921–1925) in Morocco and to the creation of Messali Hadj's Star of North Africa in Algeria in 1925.
decolonization: When the Democrats returned to power in 1933, they worked with the Filipinos to plan a smooth transition to independence.
decolonization: The 1990s were characterized by the prevalence of the Washington consensus on neoliberal policies, "structural adjustment" and "shock therapies" for the former Communist states.
decolonization: With the exception of colonies in Eurasia, linguistic decolonization did not take place in the former colonies-turned-independent states on the other continents ("Rest of the World").
decolonization: Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o explored the cultural and linguistic legacies of colonialism in the influential book Decolonising the Mind (1986).
decolonization: OPEC nations then agreed, on 7 January 1975, to raise crude oil prices by 10%.
decolonization: By the time Dutch soldiers returned, an independent government under Sukarno was in power, originally set up by the Empire of Japan.
decolonization: In October 2020, Mauritian Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth described the British and American governments as "hypocrites" and "champions of double talk" over their response to the dispute.
decolonization: Kitchen: Colonial Empires after the First World War/Decolonisation, in: 1914–1918-online.
decolonization: In December 1941, the empire of Japan joined World War II by invading the European and U.S.
decolonization: In 1960, eight independent countries emerged from French West Africa, and five from French Equatorial Africa.
decolonization: Some were administered directly by the UK, and others by British dominions – Nauru and the Territory of New Guinea by Australia, South West Africa by the Union of South Africa, and Western Samoa by New Zealand.
decolonization: However the black majorities in Rhodesia and South Africa were disenfranchised until 1979 in Rhodesia, which became Zimbabwe-Rhodesia that year and Zimbabwe the next, and until 1994 in South Africa.
decolonization: Eritrea merged with Ethiopia in 1952, but became an independent country in 1993.
decolonization: In 1933 Japan seized the Chinese province of Rehe, and incorporated it into its Manchurian possessions.
decolonization: Its constitutional convention wrote a new constitution, which was approved by Washington and went into effect, with an elected governor Manuel L.
decolonization: London for decades assumed it needed the island to defend the Suez Canal; but after the Suez crisis of 1956, that became a minor factor, and Greek violence became a more serious issue.
decolonization: Namibia, Africa's last UN Trust Territory, became independent of South Africa in 1990.
decolonization: Netherlands: Netherlands Antilles, Suriname (1954, both becoming constituent countries of the Kingdom of the Netherlands), 1975 (independence of Suriname)
 Denmark: Greenland (1979, became an autonomous territory of the Kingdom of Denmark).
decolonization: After independence, many countries created regional economic associations to promote trade and economic development among neighboring countries, including the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and the Gulf Cooperation Council.
decolonization: The last wave of decolonization occurred after the Cold War with the collapse of the Soviet Union, the independence of Palau, and the handovers of Hong Kong and Macau.
decolonization: Cyprus became an independent country in 1960, but ethnic violence escalated until 1974 when Turkey invaded and partitioned the island.
decolonization: The decolonization of Oceania occurred after World War II when nations in Oceania achieved independence by transitioning from European colonial rule to full independence.
decolonization: The surge in popularity of kung fu movies began in the late 1960s through the 1970s.
decolonization: Dutch economists calculated that the economic effect from the loss of the great Dutch empire in Indonesia was compensated for by a couple of years or so of domestic post-war economic growth.
decolonization: Numerous countries declared their independence.
decolonization: Driven by pragmatic demands of budgets and manpower the British made deals with the local politicians.
decolonization: In allowing allies France and Britain the former colonial possessions of the German and Ottoman Empires, the US demanded of them submission to the League of Nations mandate, in calling for V.
decolonization: Some nationalized industries and infrastructure, and some engaged in land reform to redistribute land to individual farmers or create collective farms.
decolonization: A major wave of decolonization occurred in the aftermath of the First World War, including in the United States and the Empire of Japan.
decolonization: It was scheduled for 1946 by Tydings–McDuffie Act of 1934.
decolonization: A few years later, Sukarno nationalized all Dutch East Indies properties and expelled all ethnic Dutch—over 300,000—as well as several hundred thousand ethnic Indonesians who supported the Dutch cause.
decolonization: In practice, this meant that the United States was led to act as a collections agent for European creditors by administering customs duties in the Dominican Republic (1905–1941), Haiti (1915–1934), and elsewhere.
decolonization: Kwame Nkrumah (1909–1972) who was inspired by the works of Garvey led the Gold Coast (Ghana) to independence from colonial rule.
decolonization: Decades of ethno—religious violence reached a climax with the UN Partition Plan and the ensuing war.
decolonization: The African Union includes all 55 African states.
decolonization: During that war, the British gained support from Arabs and Jews by making promises to both (see McMahon–Hussein Correspondence and Balfour Declaration).
decolonization: After World War II, the U.S.
decolonization: The following list shows the colonial powers following the end of hostilities in 1945, and their colonial or administrative possessions.
decolonization: However, these movements would gain full potential only after World War II.
decolonization: Linguistic imperialism is the imposition and enforcement of one dominant language over other languages, and one response to this form of imperialism is linguistic decolonization.
decolonization: The end of the colonial era is celebrated in the history books as a triumph of national aspiration in the former colonies and of benign good sense on the part of the colonial powers.
decolonization: Decolonization allowed the colonizer to disclaim responsibility for the colonized.
decolonization: In 1935, the Philippines transitioned out of territorial status, controlled by an appointed governor, to the semi-independent status of the Commonwealth of the Philippines.
decolonization: Most independent African countries exist within prior colonial borders.
decolonization: The economic monopoly of the metropolis was the main reason why many countries decided to become independent from Spain.
decolonization: For instance, the decolonization of Algeria by France was particularly uneasy due to the large European population (see also pied noir), which largely evacuated to France when Algeria became independent.
decolonization: The departure of India and Pakistan made small economic difference in the United Kingdom.
decolonization: The Napoleonic Wars in the 19th century saw the French colonial empire, the Spanish Empire, and Portugal face decolonization with the Haitian Revolution, the Spanish American wars of independence, and the independence of Brazil from Portugal.
decolonization: All of the British colonies on mainland Africa became independent by 1966, although Rhodesia's unilateral declaration of independence in 1965 was not recognized by the UK or internationally.
decolonization: Domestic economic growth – as now measured and much discussed – came to be seen as far more important than the erstwhile colonial trade....
decolonization: The Allied powers divided Korea into two occupation zones, which became the states of North Korea and South Korea.
decolonization: Issues of decolonization persist and are raised contemporarily.
decolonization: Italian Somaliland was governed by the UK, and by Italy after 1954, until its independence in 1960.
decolonization: A great deal of scholarship attributes the ideological origins of national independence movements to the Age of Enlightenment.
decolonization: Vincent and the Grenadines (1979); Antigua and Barbuda and Belize (1981); Saint Kitts and Nevis (1983); Barbados (2021, removal of Queen Elizabeth II as head of state, transition to republic).
decolonization: The sovereignty of the Chagos Archipelago in the Indian Ocean is disputed between the United Kingdom and Mauritius.
decolonization: established it as a client state with obligations including the perpetual lease of Guantánamo Bay to the U.S.
decolonization: The US government declared Puerto Rico the territory was no longer a colony and stopped transmitting information about it to the United Nations Decolonization Committee.
decolonization: However, France, taking advantage of the American government's distraction during the Civil War, intervened militarily in Mexico and set up a French-protected monarchy.
decolonization: Cambodia and Laos became fully independent in late 1953, Vietnam became fully independent on 4 June 1954, and the Geneva Accords of 21 July 1954 left Vietnam divided into the North and South with the fact that France recognized communists gaining the North.
decolonization: Furthermore, on 19 May 2015, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon addressed the attendants of the Caribbean Regional Seminar on Decolonization, urging international political leaders to "build on [the success of precedent decolonization efforts and] towards fully eradicating colonialism by 2020".
decolonization: However Morocco merged French Morocco with Spanish Morocco, and Somalia formed from the merger of British Somaliland and Italian Somaliland.
decolonization: The CFA franc is a currency shared by 14 countries in West and Central Africa, mostly former French colonies.
decolonization: Following its surrender to the Allies in 1945, Japan was deprived of all its colonies with a number of them being returned to the original colonizing Western powers.
decolonization: These new states had to devise constitutions, electoral systems, and other institutions of representative democracy.
decolonization: Foreign Affairs remained under American control.
decolonization: As a result, the UN General Assembly removed Puerto Rico from the U.N.
decolonization: In 1931, Japan seized Manchuria from the Republic of China, setting up a puppet state under Puyi, the last Manchu emperor of China.
decolonization: Spain took the step to occupy the Dominican Republic and restore colonial rule.
decolonization: In May 1810 in Buenos Aires, a Junta was created, but in Montevideo it was not recognized by the local government who followed the authority of the Junta of Cadiz.
decolonization: Similarly, the McKinley administration, despite prosecuting the Philippine–American War against a native republic, set out that the Territory of the Philippine Islands was eventually granted independence.
decolonization: Enlightenment social and political theories such as individualism and liberalism were central to the debates about national constitutions for newly independent countries.
decolonization: In 1956, Morocco and Tunisia gained their independence from France.
decolonization: This was followed by the Middle East, and in the 1960s sub-Saharan Africa.
decolonization: In 1961, India annexed Goa and by the same year nationalist forces had begun organizing in Portugal.
decolonization: However power over the colonies remained concentrated in France, and the power of local assemblies outside France was extremely limited.
decolonization: It was characterized by massacres of civilians on both sides.
decolonization: poured tens of billions of dollars into the Marshall Plan, and other grants and loans to Europe and Asia to rebuild the world economy.
decolonization: The Netherlands recognized Indonesia's independence in 1949, after a four-year independence struggle.
decolonization: In February 2019, the International Court of Justice in The Hague ruled that the United Kingdom must transfer the islands to Mauritius as they were not legally separated from the latter in 1965.
decolonization: In response to a growing Indian independence movement, the UK made successive reforms to the British Raj, culminating in the Government of India Act 1935.
decolonization: In 1945, Africa had four independent countries – Egypt, Ethiopia, Liberia, and South Africa.
decolonization: The Netherlands had spent centuries building up its empire.
decolonization: Some scholars of decolonization focus especially on independence movements in the colonies and the collapse of global colonial empires.
decolonization: Many colonies were serving as resource colonies which produced raw materials and agricultural products, and as a captive market for goods manufactured in the colonizing country.
decolonization: The United States purchased Alaska from the Russian Empire in 1867 and annexed Hawaii in 1898.
decolonization: The amount of self-rule granted prior to independence, and assistance from the colonial power and/or international organizations after independence, varied greatly between colonial powers, and between individual colonies.
decolonization: The economic effect in the United States from the granting of independence to the Philippines was unnoticeable, partly due to the Bell Trade Act, which allowed American monopoly in the economy of the Philippines.
decolonization: Part of the reason for this was that major costs were eliminated while major benefits were obtained by alternate means.
decolonization: By 1940 it consisted mostly of the Dutch East Indies, corresponding to what is now Indonesia.
decolonization: As a movement to establish independence for colonized territories from their respective metropoles, decolonization began in 1775 with the American Revolution in North America against the British Empire.
decolonization: Although France was ultimately a victor of World War II, Nazi Germany's occupation of France and its North African colonies during the war had disrupted colonial rule.
decolonization: These territories included the League of Nations mandate territories which had not achieved independence by 1945, along with the former Italian Somaliland.
decolonization: That year, a left-wing revolution inside Portugal overthrew the existing regime and encouraged pro-Soviet elements to attempt to seize control in the colonies.
decolonization: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, India's independence movement leader, led a peaceful resistance to British rule.
decolonization: Thus decolonization allowed the goals of colonization to be largely achieved, but without its burdens.
decolonization: Decolonization is the ending of colonialism, the latter being the process whereby imperial nations establish and dominate foreign territories, often overseas.
decolonization: By 1900, the U.S.
decolonization: This led to distrust between the Portuguese and the Brazilian colonists, and finally, in 1822, to the colony becoming independent as the Empire of Brazil, which later became a republic.
decolonization: Morocco, Lesotho, and Eswatini remain monarchies under dynasties that predate colonial rule.
decolonization: The meanings and applications of the term are disputed.
decolonization: In A Journey Through Economic Time, he writes: "The engine of economic well-being was now within and between the advanced industrial countries.
decolonization: Japan also set up the Imperial Universities in Korea (Keijō Imperial University) and Taiwan (Taihoku Imperial University) to compel education.
decolonization: There was no serious planning for independence, and exceedingly little training or education provided.
decolonization: In Zimbabwe, former Rhodesia, Robert Mugabe seized property from white African farmers, killing several of them, and forcing the survivors to emigrate.
decolonization: Repatriation of existing colonizers or prevention of immigration of additional colonizers can be seen as return migration and opposition to immigration.
decolonization: colonies in Southeast Asia and the Pacific, including French Indochina, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Burma, Malaya, Indonesia, Portuguese Timor, and others.
decolonization: Iraq, a League of Nations mandate, became independent in 1932.
decolonization: African countries cooperate in various multi-state associations.
decolonization: Puerto Rico became an unincorporated territory of the US, but Cuba became independent in 1902.
decolonization: Africa was only fully drawn into the colonial system at the end of the 19th century.
decolonization: In 2002, former Portuguese Timor became independent as East Timor.
decolonization: Local revolts grew in power and finally, the Belgian king suddenly announced in 1959 that independence was on the agenda – and it was hurriedly arranged in 1960, for country bitterly and deeply divided on social and economic grounds.
decolonization: As a result of its pioneering discoveries, Portugal had a large and particularly long-lasting colonial empire which had begun in 1415 with the conquest of Ceuta and ended only in 1999 with the handover of Portuguese Macau to China.
decolonization: We didn't identify with the Indians at all and we never wanted the Indians to win.
decolonization: Immediately following the war there was a wave of decolonization throughout Asia.
decolonization: Independence for the colonies in Africa began with the independence of Sudan in 1956, and the Gold Coast (Ghana) in 1957.
decolonization: Most of that was initiated by repressive British administrators, as in the Amritsar massacre of 1919, or the police assaults on the Salt March of 1930.
decolonization: The Republicans, who favored permanent acquisition, won the election, but after a decade or so, Republicans turned their attention to the Caribbean, focusing on building the Panama Canal.
decolonization: Great Britain's Thirteen North American colonies were the first to declare independence, forming the United States of America in 1776, and defeating Britain in the Revolutionary War.
decolonization: In 1809, the independence wars of Latin America began with a revolt in La Paz, Bolivia.
decolonization: The British eventually pulled out, and the former Mandate territory was divided between Israel, Jordan and Egypt.
decolonization: When the United Nations was formed in 1945, it established trust territories.
decolonization: Some activists have claimed that the attention of the United Nations was "further diverted from the social and economic agenda [for decolonization] towards "firefighting and extinguishing" armed conflicts".
decolonization: Lebanon declared its independence in 1943, and Syria in 1945.
decolonization: After Italy's defeat in World War II, France and the UK occupied the former Italian colonies.
decolonization: Many of the smallest colonies would not become independent, instead joining either with nearby colonies and countries or becoming full parts of their administering country.
decolonization: In 1804, Haiti secured independence from France as the Empire of Haiti, which later became a republic.
decolonization: Army position to take command of the new army reporting to Quezon.
decolonization: Advocates have stressed that the United Nations "[remains] the last refuge of hope for peoples under the yolk [sic] of colonialism".
decolonization: Following the Spanish–American War in 1898, the US added most of Spain's remaining colonies: Puerto Rico, Philippines, and Guam.
decolonization: list of non-self-governing territories.
decolonization: When the Indonesian Republic successfully suppressed a large-scale communist revolt, the United States realized that it needed the nationalist government as an ally in the Cold War.
decolonization: Compromises were negotiated, but were trusted by neither side.
decolonization: By 1977, European colonial rule in mainland Africa had ended.
decolonization: The second oil crisis occurred in the wake of the 1979 Iranian Revolution.
decolonization: Contemporary decolonial scholarship has critiqued the emancipatory potential of Enlightenment thought, highlighting its erasure of Indigenous epistemologies and failure to provide subaltern and Indigenous people with liberty, equality, and dignity.
decolonization: An estimated 20 million Chinese died during the 1931–1945 war with Japan.
decolonization: Thus, Canada was a founding member of the League of Nations in 1919 and served on the council from 1927 to 1930.
decolonization: Dutch possession was an obstacle to American Cold War goals, so Washington forced the Dutch to grant full independence.
decolonization: In 1960, the UN General Assembly voted on the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples.
decolonization: United Kingdom: Tonga and Fiji (1970); Solomon Islands and Tuvalu (1978); Kiribati (1979)
 United Kingdom and  France: Vanuatu (1980)
 Australia: Nauru (1968); Papua New Guinea (1975)
 New Zealand: Samoa (1962)
 United States: Marshall Islands and Federated States of Micronesia (1986); Palau (1994)
decolonization: Libya became an independent kingdom in 1951.
decolonization: Although in Paris the Great Mosque of Paris was constructed as recognition of these efforts, the French state had no intention to allow self-rule, let alone grant independence to the colonized people.
decolonization: Most African countries became independent as republics.
decolonization: The main principles of the NIEO are:
decolonization: In contrast, in settler colonial states like New Zealand, Australia, Canada, and the United States, settlers have not left, even as independence from the metropole was gained...
decolonization: On the night of 29 March 1947, a Madagascar nationalist uprising led the French government headed by Paul Ramadier (Socialist) to violent repression: one year of bitter fighting, 11,000–40,000 Malagasy died.
decolonization: The Balfour Declaration of 1926 declared the British Empire dominions as equals, and the 1931 Statute of Westminster established full legislative independence for them.
decolonization: The Dutch both abroad and at home generally agreed that Dutch power depended on an expensive war to regain the islands.
decolonization: Then, the 1982 Latin American debt crisis exploded in Mexico first, then Argentina and Brazil, which proved unable to pay back their debts, jeopardizing the existence of the international economic system.
decolonization: America's only African colony, Liberia, was formed privately and achieved independence early; Washington unofficially protected it.
decolonization: ...as kids, we tried to act out the things we had seen in the movies.
decolonization: The regime was fiercely determined to maintain the country's colonial possessions at all costs and to aggressively suppress any insurgencies.
decolonization: In the north-east the continued independence of the Ethiopian Empire remained a beacon of hope to pro-independence activists.
decolonization: After their 2nd defeat, a Frenchman called Santiague de Liniers was proclaimed a new Viceroy by the local population and later accepted by Spain.
decolonization: Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the United States has been far less active in the Americas, but invaded Afghanistan and Iraq following the September 11 attacks in 2001, establishing army and air bases in Central Asia.
decolonization: This law in particular has been described by Volodymyr Viatrovych as providing "a legitimate framework for the ongoing decolonization processes in Ukraine and effective mechanisms".
decolonization: It took place on schedule in 1946 as Manuel Roxas took office as president.
decolonization: and Philippines =====
In the United States, the two major parties were divided on the acquisition of the Philippines, which became a major campaign issue in 1900.
decolonization: The Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands was transferred from Japanese to US administration.
decolonization: governments, laws, a military, schools, administrative systems, and so on.
decolonization: A UN General Assembly Resolution in 1960 characterised colonial foreign rule as a violation of human rights.
decolonization: After the conclusion of World War II with the surrender of the Axis Powers in 1945, and two decades into the latter half of the 20th century, over three dozen "states in Asia and Africa achieved autonomy or outright independence" from European administering powers.
decolonization: The decolonization of North Africa and sub-Saharan Africa took place in the mid-to-late 1950s, very suddenly, with little preparation.
decolonization: The Soviet Union declared war on Japan in August 1945, and shortly after occupied and annexed the southern Kuril Islands, which Japan still claims.
decolonization: Days before Napoleon invaded Portugal, in 1807 the Portuguese royal court fled to Brazil.
decolonization: Several analyses point to different reasons for the spread of anti-colonial political movements.
decolonization: However, conflict, revenue growth, and economic growth did not systematically differ before and after independence."
David Strang writes that the loss of their empires turned France and Britain into "second-rate powers".
decolonization: Whenever Africans sneaked up behind Tarzan, we would scream our heads off, trying to warn him that 'they' were coming".
decolonization: Palestine became a British mandate from the League of Nations after World War I, initially including Transjordan.
decolonization: The Japanese occupation 1942 to 1945 disrupted but did not delay the transition.
decolonization: The Fourteen Points were preconditions addressed by President Woodrow Wilson to the European powers at the Paris Peace Conference following World War I.
decolonization: Italy had occupied the Dodecanese islands in 1912, but Italian occupation ended after World War II, and the islands were integrated into Greece.
decolonization: Although discussions of hegemony and power, central to the concept of decolonization, can be found as early as the writings of Thucydides, there have been several particularly active periods of decolonization in modern times.
decolonization: Subsequent studies of decolonisation addressed economic disparities as a legacy of colonialism as well as the annihilation of people's cultures.
decolonization: Except for a few absolute monarchies, most post-colonial states are either republics or constitutional monarchies.
decolonization: Lisbon escalated its effort in the war: for instance, it increased the number of natives in the colonial army and built strategic hamlets.
decolonization: Each side rewrote its own history, blaming the other.
decolonization: It added Rwanda and Burundi as League of Nations mandates from the former German Empire in 1919.
decolonization: We used to play cowboys and Indians in the mountains around Gondar...We acted out the roles of these heroes, identifying with the cowboys conquering the Indians.
decolonization: Concluding the First OPEC Summit in Algiers they called for stable and just commodity prices, an international food and agriculture program, technology transfer from North to South, and the democratization of the economic system.
decolonization: French India was integrated into India between 1950 and 1954, and India annexed Portuguese India in 1961, and the Kingdom of Sikkim merged with India by popular vote in 1975.
decolonization: The OPEC lost more and more influence on the world prices of oil.
decolonization: There was widespread unrest and organized revolts, especially in French Algeria, Portuguese Angola, the Belgian Congo and British Kenya.
decolonization: Burundi, Egypt, Libya, and Tunisia gained independence as monarchies, but all four countries' monarchs were later deposed, and they became republics.
decolonization: After 1898 direct intervention expanded in Latin America.
decolonization: Japan expanded its occupation of Chinese territory during the 1930s, and occupied Southeast Asia during World War II.
decolonization: citizens that same year.
decolonization: "Decolonization" has also been used to refer to the intellectual decolonization from the colonizers' ideas that made the colonized feel inferior.
decolonization: The Algerian War of Independence raged from 1954 to 1962.
decolonization: In some instances, decolonization efforts ran counter to other concerns, such as the rapid increase of antisemitism in Algeria in the course of the nation's resistance to French rule.
decolonization: With support from Britain, its Monroe Doctrine reserved the Americas as its sphere of interest, prohibiting other states (particularly Spain) from recolonizing the newly independent polities of Latin America.
decolonization: An important book from this period was The Wretched of the Earth (1961) by Martiniquan author Frantz Fanon, which established many aspects of decolonisation that would be considered in later works.
decolonization: In 1945 the Netherlands could not regain these islands on its own; it did so by depending on British military help and American financial grants.
decolonization: The Second Sino-Japanese War started in 1937, and Japan occupied much of eastern China, including the Republic's capital at Nanjing.
decolonization: Significant violence was involved in several prominent cases of decolonization of the British Empire; partition was a frequent solution.
decolonization: Revolts (preceding the Portuguese Colonial War) spread to Angola, Guinea Bissau and Mozambique.
decolonization: advocated an Open Door Policy and opposed the direct division of China.
decolonization: The United Nations (UN) states that the fundamental right to self-determination is the core requirement for decolonization, and that this right can be exercised with or without political independence.
decolonization: The colonizer no longer had the burden of obligation, financial or otherwise, to their colony.
decolonization: In 1947, British India was partitioned into the independent dominions of the Union of India and Pakistan.
decolonization: The Republic of China regained control of Japanese-occupied territories in Manchuria and eastern China, as well as Taiwan.
decolonization: The Monroe Doctrine was expanded by the Roosevelt Corollary in 1904, providing that the United States had a right and obligation to intervene "in flagrant cases of such wrongdoing or impotence" that a nation in the Western Hemisphere became vulnerable to European control.
decolonization: The rivalry between the two cities was the main reason for the distrust between them.
decolonization: The NIEO was opposed to the 1944 Bretton Woods system, which had benefited the leading states which had created it, and remained in force until 1971 after the United States' suspension of convertibility from dollars to gold.
decolonization: Indonesia annexed Netherlands New Guinea in 1963, and Portuguese Timor in 1975.
decolonization: Pursuing a colonial policy comparable to those of European powers, Japan settled significant populations of ethnic Japanese in its colonies while simultaneously suppressing Indigenous ethnic populations by enforcing the learning and use of the Japanese language in schools.
decolonization: By becoming a symbol of both peace and opposition to British imperialism, many Indians began to view the British as the cause of India's problems leading to a newfound sense of nationalism among its population.
decolonization: During the next 15 years, the Spanish and Royalist on one side, and the rebels on the other fought in South America and Mexico.
decolonization: The 1973 oil crisis which followed the Yom Kippur War (October 1973) was triggered by the OPEC which decided an embargo against the US and Western countries, causing a fourfold increase in the price of oil, which lasted five months, starting on 17 October 1973, and ending on 18 March 1974.
decolonization: A union of former colonies itself, the United States approached imperialism differently from the other Powers.
decolonization: Hundreds of princely states, states ruled by monarchs in a treaty of subsidiary alliance with Britain, were integrated into India and Pakistan.
decolonization: After World War I, France administered the former Ottoman territories of Syria and Lebanon, and the former German colonies of Togoland and Cameroon, as League of Nations mandates.
decolonization: In 1917, the U.S.
decolonization: Nation-building projects seek to replace loyalty to the old colonial power, and/or tribal or regional loyalties, with loyalty to the new state.
decolonization: On 22 May 2019, the United Nations General Assembly debated and adopted a resolution that affirmed that the Chagos Archipelago "forms an integral part of the territory of Mauritius".
decolonization: As of 2020, 17 territories remain under Chapter XI distinction:
decolonization: The next year, the first Non-Aligned Movement conference was held in Belgrade (1961), and was followed in 1964 by the creation of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) which tried to promote a New International Economic Order (NIEO).
decolonization: Scholars of Russian studies have also renewed awareness of Russian colonialism and interest in decolonizing scholarship in their field.
decolonization: Newfoundland ceded self-rule back to London in 1934.
decolonization: Local populations were depicted as protagonists opposing "imperialists" (foreigners) and their "Chinese collaborators".
decolonization: The Netherlands was overrun and almost starved to death by the Nazis during the war, and Japan sank the Dutch fleet in seizing the East Indies.
decolonization: The contract was broken and each of the regions of the Spanish Empire had to decide whether to show allegiance to the Junta of Cadiz (the only territory in Spain free from Napoleon) or have a junta (assembly) of its own.
decolonization: On 27 October 1946, France adopted a new constitution creating the Fourth Republic, and substituted the French Union for the colonial empire.
decolonization: International Encyclopedia of the First World War.
decolonization: The attempt of the first governor to void the island's constitution and remain in power past the end of his term provoked a rebellion that provoked a reoccupation between 1906 and 1909, but this was again followed by devolution.
decolonization: Large-scale communal violence broke out between Hindus and Muslims and between Muslims and Sikhs after the British left in 1947 in the newly independent dominions of India and Pakistan.
decolonization: However, the colonizer continued to be able to obtain cheap goods and labor as well as economic benefits (see Suez Canal Crisis) from the former colonies.
decolonization: In 1783, the North American colonies were divided between the independent United States, and British North America, which later became Canada.
decolonization: The Napoleonic Wars also led to the severing of the direct links between Portugal and its only American colony, Brazil.
decolonization: In late 1946, the Viet Minh attacked French troops in Hanoi, leading to the Indochina War (1946–54).
decolonization: The intrusiveness and bad relations this engendered were somewhat checked by the Clark Memorandum and renounced by President Franklin D.
decolonization: President Woodrow Wilson, a Democrat in office from 1913 to 1921, ignored the Philippines, and focused his attention on Mexico and Caribbean nations.
decolonization: The UNCTAD however was not very effective in implementing the NIEO, and social and economic inequalities between industrialized countries and the Third World grew throughout the 1960s until the 21st century.
decolonization: A large Indian community lived in Uganda as a result of Britain colonizing both India and East Africa, and Idi Amin expelled them for domestic political gain.
decolonization: These waves saw most large colonies become independent, with many remaining colonies being smaller islands.
decolonization: The chaos of the Napoleonic Wars in Europe cut the direct links between Spain and its American colonies, allowing for the process of decolonization to begin.
decolonization: Early studies of decolonisation appeared in the 1960s and 1970s.
decolonization: The Belgian Congo was especially rich, and many Belgian businessmen lobbied hard to maintain control.
decolonization: After independence, the new states needed to establish or strengthen the institutions of a sovereign state, i.e.
decolonization: With the invasion of Spain by Napoleon in 1806, the American colonies declared autonomy and loyalty to King Ferdinand VII.
decolonization: The mainland was free, and in 1898, Spain lost Cuba and Puerto Rico in the Spanish–American War.
decolonization: The Indian Rebellion of 1857 was a major uprising in India against British East India Company.
decolonization: Quezon and legislature.
decolonization: Born in Ethiopia, filmmaker Haile Gerima describes the "colonization of the unconscious" he describes experiencing as a child:
decolonization: Much later, in 1970, further communal violence broke out within Pakistan in the detached eastern part of East Bengal, which became independent as Bangladesh in 1971.
decolonization: There are several regional associations of states, including the East African Community, Southern African Development Community, and Economic Community of West African States, some of which have overlapping membership.
decolonization: Some of the British colonies in Asia were directly administered by British officials, while others were ruled by local monarchs as protectorates or in subsidiary alliance with the UK.
decolonization: To this day, the Algerian war – officially called a "public order operation" until the 1990s – remains a trauma for both France and Algeria.
decolonization: In other words, colonial powers had more support from their own region in pursuing colonies in the 19th century than they did in the 20th century, where holding on to such colonies was often understood to be a burden.
decolonization: The emergence of Indigenous political parties was especially characteristic of the British Empire, which was less ruthless than, for example, Belgium, in controlling political dissent.
decolonization: British rule ended in Cyprus in 1960, and Malta in 1964, and both islands became independent republics.
decolonization: The Netherlands also had one other major colony, Dutch Guiana in South America, which became independent as Suriname in 1975.
decolonization: The Union victory in the Civil War in 1865 forced both France and Spain to accede to American demands to evacuate those two countries.
decolonization: After World War I, the colonized people were frustrated at France's failure to recognize the effort provided by the French colonies (resources, but more importantly colonial troops – the famous tirailleurs).
decolonization: While decolonial scholars like Madina Tlostanova endorse this framing, the anthropologist Jeremy F.
decolonization: Even in Tarzan movies, we would become totally galvanized by the activities of the hero and follow the story from his point of view, completely caught up in the structure of the story.
decolonization: In a few cases, settler populations have been repatriated.
decolonization: Newly independent states also had to develop independent economic institutions – a national currency, banks, companies, regulation, tax systems, etc.
decolonization: In Asia, kung fu cinema emerged at a time Japan wanted to reach Asian populations in other countries by way of its cultural influence.
decolonization: In 1955 these leaders gathered at the Bandung Conference along with Sukarno, the leader of Indonesia, and Zhou Enlai, Premier of the People's Republic of China.
decolonization: The Dutch government eventually gave up on claims to Indonesian sovereignty in 1949, after American pressure.
decolonization: Nation-building is the process of creating a sense of identification with, and loyalty to, the state.
decolonization: Elements of nation-building include creating and promoting symbols of the state like a flag, a coat of arms and an anthem, monuments, official histories, national sports teams, codifying one or more Indigenous official languages, and replacing colonial place-names with local ones.
decolonization: These reforms included creating elected legislative councils in some of the provinces of British India.
decolonization: The UK does not recognize Mauritius' sovereignty claim over the Chagos Archipelago.
decolonization: After North Vietnamese military victory in April 1975, Vietnam would be de jure united under a communist government on 2 July 1976.
decolonization: The year of decolonization is given chronologically in parentheses.
decolonization: In the aftermath, the British pulled back from modernizing reforms of Indian society, and the level of organised violence under the British Raj was relatively small.
decolonization: That country also negotiated on its own and signed bilateral and multilateral treaties and conventions from the early 1900s onward.
decolonization: In 1822, Portugal lost control of Brazil, its largest colony.
decolonization: Many decolonized countries created programs to promote industrialization.
decolonization: In 1820 there was a Constitutionalist Revolution in Portugal, which led to the return of the Portuguese court to Lisbon.
decolonization: Nation-building after independence often continues the work began by independence movements during the colonial period.
decolonization: Other explanations emphasize how the lower profitability of colonization and the costs associated with empire prompted decolonization.
decolonization: But industrialized countries quickly began to look for substitutes to OPEC petroleum, with the oil companies investing the majority of their research capital in the US and European countries or others, politically sure countries.
decolonization: Extending the meaning of decolonization beyond political independence has been disputed and received criticism.
decolonization: Only Hong Kong and Macau remained in outside control until both places were transferred to the People's Republic of China by the UK and Portugal in 1997 and 1999.
decolonization: With this new wave of Indian nationalism, Gandhi was eventually able to garner the support needed to push back the British and create an independent India in 1947.
decolonization: Before World War I, Japan had gained several substantial colonial possessions in East Asia such as Taiwan (1895) and Korea (1910).
decolonization: Seventeen territories remain under the United Nations classification of non-self-governing territories.
decolonization: Deciding not to annex Cuba outright, the U.S.
decolonization: Some decolonized countries maintain strong economic ties with the former colonial power.
decolonization: At that time, OPEC nations – including many who had recently nationalized their oil industries – joined the call for a New International Economic Order to be initiated by coalitions of primary producers.
decolonization: By 1990 all but one of the trust territories had achieved independence, either as independent states or by merger with another independent state; the Northern Mariana Islands elected to become a commonwealth of the United States.
decolonization: After World War I, several former German and Ottoman territories in the Middle East, Africa, and the Pacific were governed by the UK as League of Nations mandates.
decolonization: Four referendums showed little support for independence, but much interest in statehood such as Hawaii and Alaska received in 1959.
decolonization: In 1807 and 1808, the Viceroyalty of the River Plate was invaded by the British.
decolonization: It was not a movement for independence, however, and only a small part of India was involved.
decolonization: Lurking beneath, as so often happens, was a strong current of economic interest – or in this case, disinterest."
In general, the release of the colonized caused little economic loss to the colonizers.
decolonization: However, some of the Dominions were already independent de facto, and even de jure and recognized as such by the international community.
decolonization: The Philippines became independent of the U.S.
decolonization: Portugal sent another 300,000 European settlers into Angola and Mozambique before 1974.
decolonization: In the Americas and South Africa, such issues are increasingly discussed under the term decoloniality.
decolonization: Other methods such as public interaction, and attempts to eradicate the use of Korean, Hokkien, and Hakka among the Indigenous peoples, were seen to be used.
decolonization: When settlers remain in former colonies after independence, colonialism is ongoing and takes the form of settler colonialism, which is highly resistant to decolonisation.
decolonization: The war thus became part of the world-wide Cold War.
decolonization: In the 1960s, due to economic needs for post-war reconstruction and rapid economic growth, French employers actively sought to recruit manpower from the colonies, explaining today's multiethnic population.
decolonization: At the same time American military bases were established around the world and direct and indirect interventions continued in Korea, Indochina, Latin America (inter alia, the 1965 occupation of the Dominican Republic), Africa, and the Middle East to oppose Communist movements and insurgencies.
decolonization: The result was a very long and extremely difficult multi-party Civil War in Angola, and lesser insurrections in Mozambique.
decolonization: As of June 2026, the Committee had not added the territory to its list.
decolonization: A non-exhaustive list of assassinated leaders would include:
decolonization: Cyprus, which came under full British control in 1914 from the Ottoman Empire, was culturally divided between the majority Greek element (which demanded "enosis" or union with Greece) and the minority Turks.
decolonization: Japan joined the allies in World War I, and after the war acquired the South Seas Mandate, the former German colony in Micronesia, as a League of Nations Mandate.
decolonization: Roosevelt's "Good Neighbor Policy".
decolonization: In states that have won independence, Indigenous people living under settler colonialism continue to make demands for decolonization and self-determination.
decolonization: purchased the Danish West Indies (later renamed the US Virgin Islands) from Denmark and Puerto Ricans became full U.S.
decolonization: Another wave of decolonization occurred after the Second World War, and many countries gained their independence in the following years.
