democracy: Deliberative democracy is based on the notion that democracy is government by deliberation.
democracy: The following kinds of democracy are not exclusive of one another: many specify details of aspects that are independent of one another and can co-exist in a single system.
democracy: Second, a multidimensional approach to the problem of conceptualizing democracy.
democracy: A 2019 study by Acemoglu and others estimated that countries switching to democratic from authoritarian rule had on average a 20% higher GDP after 25 years than if they had remained authoritarian.
democracy: Countries that were once part of the British Empire often adopted the British Westminster system.
democracy: Democratic assemblies are as old as the human species and are found throughout human history, but up until the nineteenth century, major political figures have largely opposed democracy.
democracy: Representatives may be elected or become diplomatic representatives by a particular district (or constituency), or represent the entire electorate through proportional systems, with some using a combination of the two.
democracy: Most trade unions and cooperatives are governed by democratic elections.
democracy: An example of this is the disease environment.
democracy: Delegates may vote differently from how their sending council might wish but are mandated to communicate the wishes of their sending council.
democracy: In 17th century England, there was renewed interest in Magna Carta.
democracy: Some varieties of democracy provide better representation and more freedom for their citizens than others.
democracy: The established news media have to guard their reputation as trustworthy, while ordinary citizens may post unreliable information.
democracy: Delegates are recallable at any time.
democracy: ISBN 978-0-691-16260-7.
democracy: They are controlled mainly by economic market forces.
democracy: Corporations are ultimately governed by their shareholders through shareholder democracy.
democracy: For example, the 6 January Dictatorship, begun in 1929 when King Alexander I of Yugoslavia dismissed parliament and started ruling by decree.
democracy: If the decision-makers cannot reach consensus after authentically deliberating on a proposal, then they vote on the proposal using a form of majority rule.
democracy: A consociational democracy allows for simultaneous majority votes in two or more ethno-religious constituencies, and policies are enacted only if they gain majority support from both or all of them.
democracy: An example of geographical determinants for democracy is having access to coastal areas and rivers.
democracy: Republican theorists linked democracy to small size: as political units grew in size, the likelihood increased that the government would turn despotic.
democracy: The first documented parliamentary body in Europe was the Cortes of León.
democracy: However, if any democracy is not structured to prohibit the government from excluding the people from the legislative process, or any branch of government from altering the separation of powers in its favour, then a branch of the system can accumulate too much power and destroy the democracy.
democracy: A Cultural History of Democracy, 6 Volumes New York : Bloomsbury Academic.
democracy: Over time, these either had their powers limited (as with the British House of Lords) or else became elective and remained powerful (as with the Australian Senate).
democracy: (2016) "What is Democracy?
democracy: Proponents of direct democracy view citizens do not rule themselves unless they directly decide laws and policies.
democracy: Representative democracy involves the election of government officials by the people being represented.
democracy: The term democracy first appeared in ancient Greek political and philosophical thought in the city-state of Athens during classical antiquity.
democracy: In the Cossack republics of Ukraine in the 16th and 17th centuries, the Cossack Hetmanate and Zaporizhian Sich, the holder of the highest post of Hetman was elected by the representatives from the country's districts.
democracy: Acemoglu said this was because democracies tended to invest more in health care and human capital, and reduce special treatment of regime allies.
democracy: The creation of the short-lived Corsican Republic in 1755 was an early attempt to adopt a democratic constitution (all men and women above age of 25 could vote).
democracy: Owning land was not a requirement for citizenship.
democracy: A semi-presidential system is a system of democracy in which the government includes both a prime minister and a president.
democracy: Some communist parties support a soviet republic with democratic centralism.
democracy: In a Freedom House report released in 2018, Democracy Scores for most countries declined for the 12th consecutive year.
democracy: Levitsky, Steven; Ziblatt, Daniel (2018).
democracy: Trotskyist groups have interpreted socialist democracy to be synonymous with multi-party far-left representation, autonomous union organizations, worker's control of production, internal party democracy and the mass participation of the working masses.
democracy: Thomas Hobbes was the first philosopher to articulate a detailed social contract theory.
democracy: "The task of democracy", Dewey concludes, "is forever that of creation of a freer and more humane experience in which all share and to which all contribute".
democracy: In purely representative democracies, democracy is understood to be defined by free voting, no consensus exists on a precise definition of democracy.
democracy: The Republic of Ragusa, established in 1358 and centered around the city of Dubrovnik, provided representation and voting rights to its male aristocracy only.
democracy: a democracy, will result in the best decisions.
democracy: In order to prevent the occurrence of an anarchic state of nature, Hobbes reasoned that individuals ceded their rights to a strong, authoritarian power.
democracy: Most western countries have representative systems.
democracy: The voting franchise in the United Kingdom was expanded and made more uniform in a series of reforms that began with the Reform Act 1832 and continued into the 20th century, notably with the Representation of the People Act 1918 and the Equal Franchise Act 1928.
democracy: The new possibilities for communication have fundamentally changed the way social movements and protest movements operate and organize.
democracy: For example, in the 1999 Ukrainian presidential election, 2003 Russian legislative election, and 2004 Russian presidential election.
democracy: The taxed peasantry was represented in parliament, although with little influence, but commoners without taxed property had no suffrage.
democracy: Some scholars have searched for the "deep" determinants of contemporary political institutions, be they geographical or demographic.
democracy: The implementation of a democratic government from a non-democratic state is typically brought by peaceful or violent democratic revolution.
democracy: The legislature often has limited ability to remove a president from office.
democracy: Autocratic countries tend to have a higher population growth.
democracy: In some countries, freedom of political expression, freedom of speech, and freedom of the press are considered important to ensure that voters are well informed, enabling them to vote according to their own interests and beliefs.
democracy: (see also In the search of common understanding below), 
There are many approaches.
democracy: The emergence of the internet and the social media has profoundly altered the conditions for political communication.
democracy: He uses the term polyarchy ("rule by many") to refer to societies in which there exists a certain set of institutions and procedures which are perceived as leading to such democracy.
democracy: Parliamentary democracy is a representative democracy where government is appointed by or can be dismissed by, representatives as opposed to a "presidential rule" wherein the president is both head of state and the head of government and is elected by the voters.
democracy: The study examined 122 transitions to democracy and 71 transitions to authoritarian rule, occurring from 1960 to 2010.
democracy: Under a minimalist definition of democracy, rulers are elected through competitive elections while more expansive or maximalist definitions link democracy to guarantees of civil liberties and human rights in addition to competitive elections.
democracy: Evidence consistent with conventional theories of why democracy emerges and is sustained has been hard to come by.
democracy: This creates a hybrid form of government, with a local direct democracy and a representative state government.
democracy: Today, the dominant form of democracy is representative democracy, where citizens elect government officials to govern on their behalf such as in a parliamentary or presidential democracy.
democracy: This democracy continues to the present day and is the world's oldest standing representative democracy.
democracy: With the exception of a handful of cases, voters never, ever — in any society, in any culture — prioritize democracy over all else.
democracy: A parpolity or participatory polity is a theoretical form of democracy that is ruled by a nested council structure.
democracy: A famous example is the Enabling Act of 1933, which lawfully ended democracy in Weimar Germany and marked the transition to Nazi Germany.
democracy: self-management in places of work and education, and ecological democracy which aims to reintegrate society and nature.
democracy: Unlike aggregative democracy, deliberative democracy holds that, for a democratic decision to be legitimate, it must be preceded by authentic deliberation, not merely the aggregation of preferences that occurs in voting.
democracy: Forms of democracy occurred organically in societies around the world that had no contact with each other.
democracy: The president serves for a specific term and cannot exceed that amount of time.
democracy: Athenian democracy took the form of direct democracy, and it had two distinguishing features: the random selection of ordinary citizens to fill the few existing government administrative and judicial offices, and a legislative assembly consisting of all Athenian citizens.
democracy: Democracy, in Dewey's view, is a moral ideal requiring actual effort and work by people; it is not an institutional concept that exists outside of ourselves.
democracy: Steven Levitsky says: "It's not up to voters to defend a democracy.
democracy: The theory of democracy relies on the implicit assumption that voters are well informed about social issues, policies, and candidates so that they can make a truly informed decision.
democracy: Several studies have shown that the stronger the dominance of commercial broadcast media over public service media, the less the amount of policy-relevant information in the media and the more focus on horse race journalism, personalities, and the pecadillos of politicians.
democracy: However, the trend of deregulation has put the public service model under increased pressure from competition with commercial media.
democracy: Public service media have an obligation to provide reliable information to voters.
democracy: The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures.
democracy: Creative democracy is advocated by American philosopher John Dewey.
democracy: This fosters mistrust and a cynical attitude to politics, less civic engagement, and less interest in voting.
democracy: Democracy garners considerable legitimacy in the modern world, as public opinion across regions tends to strongly favor democratic systems of government relative to alternatives, and as even authoritarian states try to present themselves as democratic.
democracy: citizenship to whites only.
democracy: After the Glorious Revolution of 1688, the Bill of Rights was enacted in 1689 which codified certain rights and liberties and is still in effect.
democracy: This also affected the colonial institutions European countries established in Africa.
democracy: Legal equality, political freedom and rule of law are often identified by commentators as foundational characteristics for a well-functioning democracy.
democracy: Russian politicians have referred to their government as having only one center of power/ authority, as opposed to most other forms of democracy which usually attempt to incorporate two or more naturally competing sources of authority within the same government.
democracy: The Bill set out the requirement for regular elections, rules for freedom of speech in Parliament and limited the power of the monarch, ensuring that, unlike much of Europe at the time, royal absolutism would not prevail.
democracy: The great majority of white men were farmers who met the property ownership or taxpaying requirements.
democracy: Aristotle called this "childish", as compared with the stone voting ballots used by the Athenian citizenry.
democracy: Throughout history, one can find evidence of direct democracy, in which communities make decisions through popular assembly.
democracy: The essence of the concept is that the second largest political party (or opposition) opposes the governing party (or coalition), while still remaining loyal to the state and its democratic principles.
democracy: Rather than acting as a catalyst for democratization, in some situations education provision may instead be used by non-democratic regimes to indoctrinate their subjects and strengthen their power.
democracy: Between January 1995 and June 2005, Swiss citizens voted 31 times, to answer 103 questions (during the same period, French citizens participated in only two referendums).
democracy: Direct democracy is a political system where the citizens participate in the decision-making personally, contrary to relying on intermediaries or representatives.
democracy: A democratic transition describes a phase in a country's political system, often created as a result of an incomplete change from an authoritarian regime to a democratic one (or vice versa).
democracy: The social media have given ordinary citizens easy access to voice their opinion and share information while bypassing the filters of the large news media.
democracy: The shareholder democracy framework may be inaccurate for companies which have different classes of stock that further alter the distribution of voting rights.
democracy: Instead, the evidence implies that education provision often falls short of its expressed goals, or, alternatively, that political actors use education to promote goals other than economic growth and development.
democracy: Renewed interest in the Magna Carta, the English Civil War, and the Glorious Revolution in the 17th century prompted the growth of political philosophy on the British Isles.
democracy: In most modern democracies, this was achieved through the suffrage movements of the 19th and 20th centuries.
democracy: According to the minimalist democracy conception, elections are a mechanism for competition between politicians.
democracy: In the 1920s democratic movements flourished and women's suffrage advanced, but the Great Depression brought disenchantment and most of the countries of Europe, Latin America, and Asia turned to strong-man rule or dictatorships.
democracy: Third, to collect information relevant to democracy at a highly disaggregated level.
democracy: Full universal suffrage was achieved in 1934.
democracy: Public service broadcasters are characterized by more policy-relevant information and more respect for journalistic norms and impartiality than the commercial media.
democracy: By 1960, the vast majority of country-states were nominally democracies, although most of the world's populations lived in nominal democracies that experienced sham elections, and other forms of subterfuge (particularly in "Communist" states and the former colonies).
democracy: Brennan, Jason (2016).
democracy: Elite upper houses of legislatures, which often had lifetime or hereditary tenure, were common in many states.
democracy: In India, parliamentary sovereignty is subject to the Constitution of India which includes judicial review.
democracy: The Roman model of governance inspired many political thinkers over the centuries.
democracy: In other parliamentary democracies, extra elections are virtually never held, a minority government being preferred until the next ordinary elections.
democracy: In California, a 2004 proposal to permit a quarter vote at 14 and a half vote at 16 was ultimately defeated.
democracy: Fascism and dictatorships flourished in Nazi Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, as well as non-democratic governments in the Baltics, the Balkans, Brazil, Cuba, China, and Japan, among others.
democracy: The proliferation of false stories and conspiracy theories may undermine public trust in the political system and public officials.
democracy: Anthony Downs argues that ideological political parties are necessary to act as a mediating broker between individuals and governments.
democracy: Citizens assemblies are considered by many scholars as practical examples of deliberative democracy, with a recent OECD report identifying citizens assemblies as an increasingly popular mechanism to involve citizens in governmental decision-making.
democracy: A council court of randomly chosen citizens serves as a check on the tyranny of the majority, and rules on which body gets to vote on which issue.
democracy: Less democratic governments rely heavily on censorship, propaganda, and misinformation in order to stay in power, while independent sources of information are able to undermine their legitimacy.
democracy: The president serves as both the head of state and head of government controlling most of the executive powers.
democracy: For instance, the Republic of Florence, established in 1115, was led by the Signoria whose members were chosen by sortition.
democracy: Similarly, Periclean Greece was an age of the citizen soldier and democracy.
democracy: Commercial mass media are generally not accountable to anybody but their owners, and they have no obligation to serve a democratic function.
democracy: In a direct democracy, the people have the direct authority to deliberate and decide legislation.
democracy: Different variants of aggregative democracy exist.
democracy: A serious problem with the social media is that they have no truth filters.
democracy: The voting age has been lowered to 16 for national elections in a number of countries, including Brazil, Austria, Cuba, and Nicaragua.
democracy: Authentic deliberation is deliberation among decision-makers that is free from distortions of unequal political power, such as power a decision-maker obtained through economic wealth or the support of interest groups.
democracy: Many media scholars have discussed non-commercial news media with public service obligations as a means to improve the democratic process by providing the kind of political contents that a free market does not provide.
democracy: After the old man's death the sons dig everywhere in order to discover the treasure.
democracy: Within English-speaking Western democracies, "protection-based" attitudes combining cultural conservatism and leftist economic attitudes were the strongest predictor of support for authoritarian modes of governance.
democracy: The Christian Science Monitor reported that nationalist and populist political ideologies were gaining ground, at the expense of rule of law, in countries like Poland, Turkey and Hungary.
democracy: Amitai Etzioni has postulated a system that fuses elements of democracy with sharia law, termed Islamic democracy or Islamocracy.
democracy: Range voting appeared in Sparta as early as 700 BC.
democracy: Strongly limited constitutional monarchies, such as the United Kingdom, have been referred to as crowned republics by writers such as H.
democracy: It is up to élites and institutions to protect democracy — not voters."
democracy: Extreme political polarization may undermine the trust in democratic institutions, leading to erosion of civil rights and free speech and in some cases even reversion to autocracy.
democracy: democracy is the rule of the people and that the people have a right to rule.
democracy: In other countries, the monarchy was abolished along with the aristocratic system (as in France, China, Russia, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Italy, Greece, and Egypt).
democracy: Democracy at the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Podcast: Democracy Paradox, hundreds of interviews with democracy experts around the world
democracy: The first known British person of African heritage to vote in a general election, Ignatius Sancho, voted in 1774 and 1780.
democracy: The term appeared in the 5th century BC in Greek city-states, notably Classical Athens, to mean "rule of the people", in contrast to aristocracy (ἀριστοκρατία, aristokratía), meaning "rule of an elite".
democracy: Several philosophers and researchers have outlined historical and social factors seen as supporting the evolution of democracy.
democracy: Democracy in modern times has almost always faced opposition from the previously existing government, and many times it has faced opposition from social elites.
democracy: Marxist theory supports a democratic society centering the working class.
democracy: Generally, states limited suffrage to white male property owners and taxpayers.
democracy: Colonial America had similar property qualifications as Britain, and in the period before 1776 the abundance and availability of land meant that large numbers of colonists met such requirements with at least 60 per cent of adult white males able to vote.
democracy: Invasion, for example the German occupation of Czechoslovakia, and the fall of South Vietnam.
democracy: Most electoral democracies continue to exclude those younger than 18 from voting.
democracy: Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
democracy: "Countries with Documented Election Irregularities: A 2024 Analysis".
democracy: Although in the past 120 years less than 250 initiatives have been put to referendum.
democracy: Together, these findings show that education does not always promote human capital and economic growth as is generally argued to be the case.
democracy: The dominating media focus on spin, conflict, and competitive strategies has made voters perceive the politicians as egoists rather than idealists.
democracy: Domestic military coups or rebellions are the most common means by which democratic governments have been overthrown.
democracy: Established by Alfonso IX in 1188, the Cortes had authority over setting taxation, foreign affairs and legislating, though the exact nature of its role remains disputed.
democracy: The United States Constitution of 1787 is the oldest surviving, still active, governmental codified constitution.
democracy: At the federal level, citizens can propose changes to the constitution (federal popular initiative) or ask for a referendum to be held on any law voted by the parliament.
democracy: As a result, some African countries ended up having democracies and others autocracies.
democracy: North Carolina was the last state to abolish property qualification in 1856 resulting in a close approximation to universal white male suffrage (however tax-paying requirements remained in five states in 1860 and survived in two states until the 20th century).
democracy: However, most of Eastern Europe, including the Soviet sector of Germany fell into the non-democratic Soviet-dominated bloc.
democracy: Pierre-Joseph Proudhon argued that the only acceptable form of direct democracy is one in which it is recognised that majority decisions are not binding on the minority, even when unanimous.
democracy: In force for less than 19 months, it was declared null and void by the Grodno Sejm that met in 1793.
democracy: These broadcasting services should be accountable to an independent regulatory body that is adequately protected from interference from political and economic interests.
democracy: proposed an approach to such conceptualization and measurement.
democracy: That's asking far, far too much of voters, to cast their ballot on the basis of some set of abstract principles or procedures.
democracy: During the fifteenth and first half of the sixteenth century, sejmiks received more and more power and became the most important institutions of local power.
democracy: In Turkey, thousands of judges were removed from their positions following a failed coup attempt during a government crackdown .
democracy: In 1893, the self-governing colony New Zealand became the first country in the world (except for the short-lived 18th-century Corsican Republic) to establish active universal suffrage by recognizing women as having the right to vote.
democracy: He also thought that there was a good and a bad variant of each system (he considered democracy to be the degenerate counterpart to timocracy).
democracy: As a consequence, political power was less concentrated.
democracy: Socialist thought has several different views on democracy, for example social democracy and democratic socialism.
democracy: Russian-style democracy has often been referred to as a "guided democracy".
democracy: A study identified 2,234 adjectives used to describe democracy in the English language.
democracy: Democracy tends to improve conflict resolution.
democracy: Fierce economic competition may force the mass media to divert themselves from any democratic ideals and focus entirely on how to survive the competition.
democracy: India emerged as the world's largest democracy and continues to be so.
democracy: Provisional Electoral Regulations were issued, stating that the elected members of the Provincial Administrative Councils would elect members to the first Parliament.
democracy: Many democratic socialists and social democrats believe in a form of participatory, industrial, economic and/or workplace democracy combined with a representative democracy.
democracy: In 2008, the German parliament proposed but shelved a bill that would grant the vote to each citizen at birth, to be used by a parent until the child claims it for themselves.
democracy: Fourth, transparent, a strategy for data collection and presentation that should enhance the precision, validity, transparency, and legitimacy of the resulting indicators.
democracy: The most successful of the new democracies were those geographically and culturally closest to western Europe, and they are now either part of the European Union or candidate states.
democracy: This may be the reason why presidential democracy is not very common outside the Americas, Africa, and Central and Southeast Asia.
democracy: Writing in the Leviathan (1651), Hobbes theorized that individuals living in the state of nature led lives that were "solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short" and constantly waged a war of all against all.
democracy: This made Africa less settled.
democracy: Many countries reduced their voting age to 18 years; the major democracies began to do so in the 1970s starting in Western Europe and North America.
democracy: Such reasons have driven criticism upon representative democracy, pointing out the contradictions of representation mechanisms with democracy.
democracy: He replied "A republic—if you can keep it."
democracy: According to the V-Dem Democracy indices and The Economist Democracy Index, less than half the world's population lives in a democracy as of 2022.
democracy: Because of this, democracies can be republics or constitutional monarchies, such as the United Kingdom, where the monarch is not a ruler.
democracy: Two effects of education and cognitive ability are distinguished:
democracy: The political communication is characterized by short time horizons, short slogans, simple explanations, and simple solutions.
democracy: The emergence of petitioning is some of the earliest evidence of parliament being used as a forum to address the general grievances of ordinary people.
democracy: Places with different mortality rates had different populations and productivity levels around the world.
democracy: Economic malaise in the 1980s, along with resentment of Soviet oppression, contributed to the collapse of the Soviet Union, the associated end of the Cold War, and the democratisation and liberalisation of the former Eastern bloc countries.
democracy: An elected person, with or without significant powers, became the head of state in these countries.
democracy: Voter turnout soared during the 1830s, reaching about 80% of the adult white male population in the 1840 presidential election.
democracy: A characteristic of representative democracy is that while the representatives are elected by the people to act in the people's interest, they retain the freedom to exercise their own judgement as how best to do so.
democracy: The media professors Michael Gurevitch and Jay Blumler have proposed a number of functions that the mass media are expected to fulfill in a democracy:
democracy: The fast pace and trivialization in the competitive news media is dumbing down the political debate.
democracy: In virtually all democratic governments throughout ancient and modern history, democratic citizenship was initially restricted to an elite class, which was later extended to all adult citizens.
democracy: Yet, there is a profound understanding of its meaning – like that of Abraham Lincoln:
democracy: states, where frequent use is made of referendums and initiatives.
democracy: But their indefatigable labor improves the soil and secures for them a comparative well-being.
democracy: Later, philosopher and physician John Locke would posit a different interpretation of social contract theory.
democracy: Consociational democracy, also called consociationalism, is a form of democracy based on power-sharing formula between elites representing the social groups within the society.
democracy: The votes of the powerful were given more weight through a system of weighted voting, so most high officials, including members of the Senate, came from a few wealthy and noble families.
democracy: Cosmopolitan democracy has been promoted, among others, by physicist Albert Einstein, writer Kurt Vonnegut, columnist George Monbiot, and professors David Held and Daniele Archibugi.
democracy: Historically a rare and vulnerable form of government, democratic systems of government have become more prevalent since the 19th century, in particular with various waves of democratization.
democracy: "The Role of Media and Polls in Shaping Public Opinion: A 2024 Analysis".
democracy: Commercial mass media are often differentiated along the political spectrum so that people can hear mainly opinions that they already agree with.
democracy: 10, that what distinguished a direct democracy from a republic was that the former depended on small size and suffered more violently from the effects of faction, whereas a republic could get stronger as it got larger and combats faction by its very structure.
democracy: The democratisation of the American, British, and French sectors of occupied Germany (disputed), Austria, Italy, and the occupied Japan served as a model for the later theory of government change.
democracy: Direct democracy as a government system currently exists in the Swiss cantons of Appenzell Innerrhoden and Glarus, the Rebel Zapatista Autonomous Municipalities, communities affiliated with the CIPO-RFM, the Bolivian city councils of FEJUVE, and Kurdish cantons of Rojava.
democracy: He also pledged not to create new laws without their consent.
democracy: This polarization has been worsened by the emergence of the social media that allow people to communicate mainly with groups of like-minded people, the so-called echo chambers.
democracy: Elections typically have a fixed date and are not easily changed.
democracy: A direct democracy gives the voting population the power to:
democracy: The V-Dem Institute found 2026 ongoing democratization in 18 countries: Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Bazil, Dominican Republic, Fiji, Guatemala, Lesotho, Mauritius, Montenegro, Poland, Seychelles, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Timor-Leste, Thailand, The Gambia, and Zambia.
democracy: In most modern democracies, the whole body of eligible citizens remain the sovereign power but political power is exercised indirectly through elected representatives; this is called a representative democracy.
democracy: According to Freedom House, in 2007 there were 123 electoral democracies (up from 40 in 1972).
democracy: A 2023 study analyzed the long-term effects of democracy on economic prosperity using new data on GDP per capita and democracy for a dataset between 1789 and 2019.
democracy: These determinants defined the structure of the society moving the balance of political power.
democracy: World War I and the dissolution of the autocratic Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian empires resulted in the creation of new nation-states in Europe, most of them at least nominally democratic.
democracy: (See List of coups and coup attempts by country and List of civil wars.) Examples include the Spanish Civil War, the Coup of 18 Brumaire that ended the French First Republic, and the 28 May 1926 coup d'état which ended the First Portuguese Republic.
democracy: The results indicate that democracy substantially increases economic development.
democracy: According to World Forum on Democracy, electoral democracies now represent 120 of the 192 existing countries and constitute 58.2 per cent of the world's population.
democracy: However, Athenian citizenship excluded women, slaves, foreigners (μέτοικοι / métoikoi), and youths below the age of military service.
democracy: At the same time, small political units were vulnerable to conquest.
democracy: ISBN 978-0199697670.
democracy: Global population-weighted democracy measures show faster autocratization in the last decades than country-based averages.
democracy: Universal male suffrage was established in France in March 1848 in the wake of the French Revolution of 1848.
democracy: Other theories stressed the relevance of education and of human capital—and within them of cognitive ability to increasing tolerance, rationality, political literacy and participation.
democracy: First, historical, extending indicators of democracy back through modern history, wherever possible.
democracy: The Parliament of England passed the Petition of Right in 1628 which established certain liberties for subjects.
democracy: In 2011, Michael Coppedge, John Gerring et al.
democracy: Oxford University Press.
democracy: The treasure in the fable may well symbolise democracy.
democracy: Dahl argues that the fundamental democratic principle is that, when it comes to binding collective decisions, each person in a political community is entitled to have his/her interests be given equal consideration.
democracy: Other types of a sudden end to democracy include:
democracy: However, the power to call parliament remained at the pleasure of the monarch.
democracy: Democracy more consistently results in improved health, education and economic outcomes.
democracy: This has also been argued by theories of the wisdom of the crowd.
democracy: The assumed link between education and economic growth is called into question when analyzing empirical evidence.
democracy: Before that time, the word used to define the new political system of Cleisthenes was probably isonomia, meaning political equality.
democracy: This Corsican Constitution was the first based on Enlightenment principles and included female suffrage, something that was not included in most other democracies until the 20th century.
democracy: Examples include the extensive use of referendums in the US state of California, which is a state that has more than 20 million voters.
democracy: Democratic principles are reflected in all eligible citizens being equal before the law and having equal access to legislative processes, even if not every vote cast elects someone.
democracy: Furthermore, Locke asserted that governments were legitimate only if they held the consent of the governed.
democracy: Governments could not do any better: it became the age of mass armies of citizen soldiers with guns.
democracy: "How Democracies Die".
democracy: Additionally, historical evidence suggests that average human capital (measured using literacy rates) of the masses does not explain the onset of industrialization in France from 1750 to 1850 despite arguments to the contrary.
democracy: Portugal, Spain, and several of the military dictatorships in South America returned to civilian rule in the 1970s and 1980s.
democracy: Some Marxists and Trotskyists believe in direct democracy or workers' councils (which are sometimes called soviets).
democracy: Thorough and balanced investigation of complex political issues does not fit into this format.
democracy: Statistical analyses have challenged modernisation theory by demonstrating that there is no reliable evidence for the claim that democracy is more likely to emerge when countries become wealthier, more educated, or less unequal.
democracy: Election campaigns are covered more as horse races and less as debates about ideologies and issues.
democracy: Some representative democracies also incorporate elements of direct democracy, such as referendums.
democracy: The internet and social media have provided powerful new tools for democracy movements in developing countries and emerging democracies, enabling them to bypass censorship, voice their opinions, and organize protests.
democracy: Minimalist democracy evaluations focus on free and fair elections, while maximalist democracy evaluates additional values, such as human rights, deliberation, economic outcomes or state capacity.
democracy: For Locke, citizens had the right to revolt against a government that acted against their interest or became tyrannical.
democracy: The veche, found in Eastern Europe, was a similar body to the Scandinavian thing.
democracy: Particularly important for Locke were property rights, whose protection Locke deemed to be a government's primary purpose.
democracy: Under a parliamentary democracy, government is exercised by delegation to an executive ministry and subject to ongoing review, checks and balances by the legislative parliament elected by the people.
democracy: Votingsystem, Nu (2024).
democracy: Vermont, which, on declaring independence of Great Britain in 1777, adopted a constitution modelled on Pennsylvania's citizenship and democratic suffrage for males with or without property.
democracy: Many countries have publicly funded radio and television stations with public service obligations, especially in Europe and Japan, while such media are weak or non-existent in other countries including the US.
democracy: The Kouroukan Fouga divided the Mali Empire into ruling clans (lineages) that were represented at a great assembly called the Gbara.
democracy: Presidential democracy is a system where the public elects the president through an election.
democracy: Effectively, only 1 in 4 residents in Athens qualified as citizens.
democracy: In fact, studies show that false stories are going more viral than true stories.
democracy: Economic historians Douglass North and Barry Weingast have characterized the institutions implemented in the Glorious Revolution as a resounding success in terms of restraining the government and ensuring protection for property rights.
democracy: There is more focus on politicians as personalities and less focus on political issues in the popular media.
democracy: A strong media focus on fear and terrorism has allowed military logic to penetrate public institutions, leading to increased surveillance and the erosion of civil rights.
democracy: Many non-governmental organisations decide policy and leadership by voting.
democracy: As more people had more power, more concessions had to be made by the ruler and in many places this process lead to democracy.
democracy: The World Bank has recommended public service broadcasting in order to strengthen democracy in developing countries.
democracy: Full enfranchisement of citizens was not secured until after the civil rights movement gained passage by the US Congress of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
democracy: Robinson argue that democracies are more economically successful because undemocratic political systems tend to limit markets and favor monopolies at the expense of the creative destruction which is necessary for sustained economic growth.
democracy: Democratic backsliding can end democracy in a gradual manner, by increasing emphasis on national security and eroding free and fair elections, freedom of expression, independence of the judiciary, rule of law.
democracy: Democracy was therefore highly fragile and rare historically, as it could only survive in small political units, which due to their size were vulnerable to conquest by larger political units.
democracy: The growing importance of the middle nobility had an impact on the establishment of the institution of the land sejmik (local assembly), which subsequently obtained more rights.
democracy: "The Science Behind Voter Behavior: Why People Change Their Minds".
democracy: In some countries, notably in the United Kingdom (which originated the Westminster system), the dominant principle is that of parliamentary sovereignty, while maintaining judicial independence.
democracy: Democratization 23(1): 1–26.
democracy: In 1969, Arendt Lijphart argued this would stabilize democracies with factions.
democracy: 20th-century transitions to liberal democracy have come in successive "waves of democracy", variously resulting from wars, revolutions, decolonisation, and religious and economic circumstances.
democracy: This provides some measure of separation of powers.
democracy: "Voting and Government in Ancient Greece: The Birth of Democracy".
democracy: Munck, Gerardo L.
democracy: In fact, empirical evidence shows that economic growth and education may not lead to increased demand for democratization as modernization theory suggests: historically, most countries attained high levels of access to primary education well before transitioning to democracy.
democracy: For example, most Vermont towns hold annual town meetings in March in which town officers are elected, budgets for the town and schools are voted on, and citizens have the opportunity to speak and be heard on political matters.
democracy: Subsequently, the Protectorate (1653–59) and the English Restoration (1660) restored more autocratic rule, although Parliament passed the Habeas Corpus Act in 1679 which strengthened the convention that forbade detention lacking sufficient cause or evidence.
democracy: During the Age of Liberty in Sweden (1718–1772), civil rights were expanded and power shifted from the monarch to parliament.
democracy: Reasons for disqualification included holding dual citizenship, being employed by a foreign government, being bankrupt, employed as a servant, or having "notoriety for ill deeds".
democracy: In a related theory, Ronald Inglehart suggests that improved living-standards in modern developed countries can convince people that they can take their basic survival for granted, leading to increased emphasis on self-expression values, which correlates closely with democracy.
democracy: For example, in the predecessor states to the United Kingdom, constitutional monarchy began to emerge and has continued uninterrupted since the Glorious Revolution of 1688 and passage of the Bill of Rights 1689.
democracy: Shareholders may vote annually to elect the company's board of directors, who themselves may choose the company's executives.
democracy: The Puritans (Pilgrim Fathers), Baptists, and Quakers who founded these colonies applied the democratic organisation of their congregations also to the administration of their communities in worldly matters.
democracy: Democracies may use many different decision-making methods, but majority rule is the dominant form.
democracy: Later that year, a new constitution was promulgated, which provided for a bicameral Parliament with a Senate appointed by the Sultan and a popularly elected Chamber of Deputies.
democracy: Democracy has taken a number of forms, both in theory and practice.
democracy: Political activity can be valuable in itself, it socialises and educates citizens, and popular participation can check powerful elites.
democracy: This can be done through:
Amending or suspending the constitution, such as with the 1992 Peruvian coup d'état
An "electoral self-coup" using election fraud to obtain re-election of a previously fairly elected official or political party.
democracy: Across different countries, the correlation between education attainment and math test scores is very weak (.07).
democracy: Studies have linked the emergence of parliamentary institutions in Europe during the medieval period to urban agglomeration and the creation of new classes, such as artisans, as well as the presence of nobility and religious elites.
democracy: Writing in his Two Treatises of Government (1689), Locke posited that all individuals possessed the inalienable rights to life, liberty and estate (property).
democracy: In their paper Conceptualizing and Measuring Democracy: A New Approach
they review some of the weaknesses among contemporary and older approaches, then lay out their approach, characterizing it as historical, multidimensional, disaggregated, and transparent.
democracy: Consensus democracy requires consensus decision-making and supermajority to obtain a larger support than majority.
democracy: This system in Treaty of Rome allocates votes to member states in part according to their population, but heavily weighted in favour of the smaller states.
democracy: At the same time, while representative democracy is widely valued, Pew Research Center found that dissatisfaction with democratic performance is common even in many established democracies.
democracy: Magnates dominated the most important offices in the state (secular and ecclesiastical) and sat on the royal council, later the senate.
democracy: an election, and that political decisions must reflect the general will.
democracy: Royal coup, in which a monarch not normally involved in government seizes all power.
democracy: Joseph Schumpeter articulated this view famously in his book Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy.
democracy: The particular powers held by the prime minister and president vary by country.
democracy: Biagini, Eugenio (general editor).
democracy: Shareholder democracy is a concept relating to the governance of corporations by their shareholders.
democracy: Temporary or long-term political violence and government interference can prevent free and fair elections, which erode the democratic nature of governments.
democracy: Majority rule involves a competitive approach, opposed to consensus democracy, creating the need that elections, and generally deliberation, be substantively and procedurally "fair", i.e., just and equitable.
democracy: The executive usually has the responsibility to execute or implement legislation and may have the limited legislative powers, such as a veto.
democracy: Whether colonial settlers could live or not in a place made them develop different institutions which led to different economic and social paths.
democracy: Sortition is the process of choosing decision-making bodies via a random selection.
democracy: First and foremost among these institutions is the regular occurrence of free and open elections which are used to select representatives who then manage all or most of the public policy of the society.
democracy: "Why Young Voters Don't Show Up: The Hidden Factors".
democracy: This also affected the distribution of power and the collective actions people could take.
democracy: Only men above the age of 30 who were competent in Turkish and had full civil rights were allowed to stand for election.
democracy: Nonetheless, the 1791 Constitution helped keep alive Polish aspirations for the eventual restoration of the country's sovereignty over a century later.
democracy: Examples include Switzerland and some U.S.
democracy: Aeschylus also strongly alludes to the word in his play The Suppliants, staged in c.463 BC, where he mentions "the demos's ruling hand" [demou kratousa cheir].
democracy: In some countries, the prime minister can also call an election at any point in time, typically when the prime minister believes that they are in good favour with the public as to get re-elected.
democracy: Without compensation, like legal protections of individual or group rights, political minorities can be oppressed by the "tyranny of the majority".
democracy: However, Parliament was only elected by male property owners, which amounted to 3% of the population in 1780.
democracy: The guiding philosophy is that people should have decision-making power in proportion to how much they are affected by the decision.
democracy: Cosmopolitan democracy, also known as global democracy or world federalism, is a political system in which democracy is implemented on a global scale, either directly or through representatives.
democracy: In the United States, shareholders are typically granted voting rights according to the one share, one vote principle.
democracy: Change constitutional laws,
Put forth initiatives, referendums and suggestions for laws
Within modern-day representative governments, certain electoral tools like referendums, citizens' initiatives and recall elections are referred to as forms of direct democracy.
democracy: Przeworski, Adam (2018) Why Bother With Elections?
democracy: Proponents like Jean-Jacques Rousseau argue the direct approach increases legitimacy.
democracy: In most of antiquity the benefit of citizenship was tied to the obligation to fight war campaigns.
democracy: Local councils of 25–50 people are completely autonomous on issues that affect only them, and these councils send delegates to higher level councils who are again autonomous regarding issues that affect only the population affected by that council.
democracy: In Scandinavia, bodies known as things consisted of freemen presided by a lawspeaker.
democracy: In Why Nations Fail, economists Daron Acemoglu and James A.
democracy: Scholars have also linked the emergence of representative government to Europe's relative political fragmentation.
democracy: Promotion of democracy can increase the quality of already existing democracies, reduce political apathy, and the chance of democratic backsliding.
democracy: Gibler and Andrew Owsiak in their study argued about the importance of peace and stable borders for the development of democracy.
democracy: These bodies can be more representative of the opinions and interests of the people at large than an elected legislature or other decision-maker.
democracy: Too much controversy and diverse opinions are not always profitable for the commercial news media.
democracy: Reliable information sources are essential for the democratic process.
democracy: Carroll Quigley concludes that the characteristics of weapons are the main predictor of democracy: Democracy—this scenario—tends to emerge only when the best weapons available are easy for individuals to obtain and use.
democracy: The liberal trend spread to some states in Africa in the 1990s, most prominently in South Africa.
democracy: It has also been suggested that a basic feature of democracy is the capacity of all voters to participate freely and fully in the life of their society.
democracy: However, anarcho-communist Murray Bookchin criticised individualist anarchists for opposing democracy, and says "majority rule" is consistent with anarchism.
democracy: In a modern sense the republican form of government is a form of government without a monarch.
democracy: New York: Crown Publishing.
democracy: However, a legislative branch passes legislation and budgets.
democracy: In North America, representative government began in Jamestown, Virginia, with the election of the House of Burgesses (forerunner of the Virginia General Assembly) in 1619.
democracy: The Spartan ecclesia was an assembly of the people, held once a month, in which every male citizen of at least 20 years of age could participate.
democracy: A similarly weak relationship exists between per-pupil expenditures and math competency (.26).
democracy: The word comes from dêmos '(common) people' and krátos 'force/might'.
democracy: For example, in Poland, the President appointed 27 new Supreme Court judges over legal objections from the European Commission.
democracy: Self-coup, in which the leader of the government extra-legally seizes all power or unlawfully extends the term in office.
democracy: In the 10th–15th century Frisia, a distinctly non-feudal society, the right to vote on local matters and on county officials was based on land size.
democracy: The theoretical project of inclusive democracy emerged from the work of political philosopher Takis Fotopoulos in "Towards An Inclusive Democracy" and was further developed in the journal Democracy & Nature and its successor The International Journal of Inclusive Democracy.
democracy: A consociational democracy requires consensus of representatives, while consensus democracy requires consensus of electorate.
democracy: The first Parliament of Great Britain was established in 1707, after the merger of the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland under the Acts of Union.
democracy: This has happened on a local level even in well-established democracies like the United States; for example, the Wilmington insurrection of 1898 and African-American disfranchisement after the Reconstruction era.
democracy: Although they were not widely read during his lifetime, Locke's works are considered the founding documents of liberal thought and profoundly influenced the leaders of the American Revolution and later the French Revolution.
democracy: Such democracies typically have only one central authority which is often not subject to meaningful public review by any other governmental authority.
democracy: The most common mechanisms involve election of the candidate with a majority or a plurality of the votes.
democracy: An important feature of the parliamentary democracy is the concept of the "loyal opposition".
democracy: With few exceptions, no blacks or women could vote.
democracy: countries Freedom House regards as free and respectful of basic human rights and the rule of law are 85 in number and represent 38 per cent of the global population.
democracy: Robert Michels asserts that although democracy can never be fully realised, democracy may be developed automatically in the act of striving for democracy:
democracy: Radical democracy's role is to make visible and challenge those relations by allowing for difference, dissent and antagonisms in decision-making processes.
democracy: Corporations may also employ systems such as workplace democracy to handle internal governance.
democracy: Referendums are possible at any time via votes of lower-level councils, however, not everything is a referendum as this is most likely a waste of time.
democracy: Some military coups are supported by foreign governments, such as the 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état and the 1953 Iranian coup d'état.
democracy: All eligible citizens were allowed to speak and vote in the assembly, which set the laws of the city-state.
democracy: Rulers wanting to increase revenues had to protect property-rights to create incentives for people to invest.
democracy: In New England, town meetings are often used, especially in rural areas, to manage local government.
democracy: Various Italian city-states and polities had republic forms of government.
democracy: Dewey argues that democracy is a way of life in his work of "Creative Democracy: The Task Before Us" and an experience built on faith in human nature, faith in human beings, and faith in working with others.
democracy: The responsiveness and accountability of the democratic system is compromised when lack of access to substantive, diverse, and undistorted information is handicapping the citizens' capability of evaluating the political process.
democracy: The Bill of Rights in 1791 set limits on government power to protect personal freedoms but had little impact on judgements by the courts for the first 130 years after ratification.
democracy: The technique was in widespread use in Athenian Democracy and Renaissance Florence and is still used in modern jury selection and citizens' assemblies.
democracy: Measurement of democracy varies according to the different fundamental conceptions of democracy.
democracy: For example, in Africa, the tsetse fly—which afflicts humans and livestock—reduced the ability of Africans to plough the land.
democracy: In 1876, the Ottoman Empire transitioned from an absolute monarchy to a constitutional one, and held two elections the next year to elect members to her newly formed parliament.
democracy: To many anarchists, the only form of democracy considered acceptable is direct democracy.
democracy: In the assembly, Spartans elected leaders and cast votes by range voting and shouting (the vote is then decided on how loudly the crowd shouts).
democracy: Individual voters worry about much more mundane things, as is their right.
democracy: In Poland, noble democracy was characterized by an increase in the activity of the middle nobility, which wanted to increase their share in exercising power at the expense of the magnates.
democracy: This was followed by countries in East and South Asia by the mid-to-late 1980s.
democracy: Retrieved 27 November 2025.
democracy: In this system, important governmental and administrative tasks are performed by citizens picked from a lottery.
democracy: Since the late 20th century there has been a growing concern that voters may be poorly informed due to the news media's focusing more on entertainment and gossip and less on serious journalistic research on political issues.
democracy: In 1986, after the toppling of the most prominent Asian dictatorship, the only democratic state of its kind at the time emerged in the Philippines with the rise of Corazon Aquino, who would later be known as the mother of Asian democracy.
democracy: "Election Security 101: How Votes Are Counted and Protected".
democracy: A common view among early and renaissance Republican theorists was that democracy could only survive in small political communities.
democracy: This person-centered focus may have far-reaching consequences not only for domestic problems but also for foreign policy when international conflicts are blamed on foreign heads of state rather than on political and economic structures.
democracy: "Against Democracy".
democracy: Republics, though often popularly associated with democracy because of the shared principle of rule by consent of the governed, are not necessarily democracies, as republicanism does not specify how the people are to rule.
democracy: If the head of state is democratically elected then the polity is called a democratic republic
democracy: Therefore, proponents of this view hold that democratic participation should primarily focus on voting, where the policy with the most votes gets implemented.
democracy: At the same time liberal democracies i.e.
democracy: Democracy contrasts with forms of government where power is not vested in the general population of a state, such as authoritarian systems.
democracy: Heeding the lessons of the Roman Republic's shift to monarchism as it grew larger or smaller, these Republican theorists held that the expansion of territory and population inevitably led to tyranny.
democracy: The ability to find effective political solutions to social problems is hampered when problems tend to be blamed on individuals rather than on structural causes.
democracy: The Qualified majority voting rule in European Council of Ministers is a consociational democracy approach for supranational democracies.
democracy: The search for a common approach to  conceptualize, measure and compare democracy remains a challenge in modern political science.
democracy: The tabloidization and popularization of the news media is seen in an increasing focus on human examples rather than statistics and principles.
democracy: Democracy: A Life.
democracy: The Polish-Lithuanian Constitution of 3 May 1791 sought to implement a more effective constitutional monarchy, introduced political equality between townspeople and nobility, and placed the peasants under the protection of the government, mitigating the worst abuses of serfdom.
democracy: The definition of "the people" and the ways authority is shared among them or delegated by them have changed over time and at varying rates in different countries.
democracy: This is often seen as an advantage for democracy.
democracy: Trade brought economic development, which in turn, broadened power.
democracy: The Founding Fathers of the United States often criticised direct democracy; James Madison argued, especially in The Federalist No.
democracy: Cambridge, UK: Polity Press.
democracy: Some anarcho-communists oppose the majoritarian nature of direct democracy, feeling that it can impede individual liberty and opt-in favour of a non-majoritarian form of consensus democracy, similar to Proudhon's position on direct democracy.
democracy: The peasant in the fable, when on his deathbed, tells his sons that a treasure is buried in the field.
democracy: The exclusion of large parts of the population from the citizen body is closely related to the ancient understanding of citizenship.
democracy: However, some advocates of direct democracy argue for local assemblies of face-to-face discussion.
democracy: These deliberative bodies were responsible for settling political questions, and variants included the Althing in Iceland and the Løgting in the Faeroe Islands.
democracy: Other commentators have mentioned the influence of economic development.
democracy: A Reconceptualization of the Quality of Democracy".
democracy: During that year, several revolutions broke out in Europe as rulers were confronted with popular demands for liberal constitutions and more democratic government.
democracy: Sparta adopted it because of its simplicity, and to prevent any biased voting, buying, or cheating that was predominant in the early democratic elections.
democracy: Even though the Roman Republic contributed significantly to many aspects of democracy, only a fraction of Romans were citizens with votes in elections for magistrates.
democracy: The public legitimacy of democracy varies by country, in some countries religious texts have more public support than the will of the people.
democracy: Guided democracy is a form of democracy that incorporates regular popular elections, but which often carefully "guides" the choices offered to the electorate in a manner that may reduce the ability of the electorate to truly determine the type of government exercised over them.
democracy: This natural endowment has a positive relation with economic development thanks to the benefits of trade.
democracy: In a representative democracy, the people choose governing officials through elections to do so.
democracy: Global waves of "democratic regression" reversing democratization, have also occurred in the 1920s and 30s, in the 1960s and 1970s, and in the 2010s.
democracy: In contrast, in majoritarian democracy minority opinions can potentially be ignored by vote-winning majorities.
democracy: "Silent Voices: Why Certain Demographics Routinely Don't Show Up to Vote and What We're Missing".
democracy: Radical democracy is based on the idea that there are hierarchical and oppressive power relations that exist in society.
democracy: They do not find it.
democracy: However, the charter made Mali more similar to a constitutional monarchy than a democratic republic.
democracy: The president has direct control over the cabinet, specifically appointing the cabinet members.
democracy: The Whole-process people's democracy applies consequentialism to democracy, prioritising results delivered to the people over procedure.
democracy: a cognitive effect (competence to make rational choices, better information-processing)
an ethical effect (support of democratic values, freedom, human rights etc.), which itself depends on intelligence.
democracy: The first representative national assembly in England was Simon de Montfort's Parliament in 1265.
democracy: In 1454, Casimir IV Jagiellon granted the sejmiks the right to decide on taxes and to convene a mass mobilization in the Nieszawa Statutes.
democracy: An important justification for this kind of system is that the decisions made in national or regional democracies often affect people outside the constituency who, by definition, cannot vote.
democracy: He argues, that this reflects inherent tradeoffs in conceptualizing democratic governance, which arise from fundamental normative disagreements about a highly contested concept.
democracy: This system can begin with workplace democracy and can manifest itself as soviet democracy or dictatorship of the proletariat.
democracy: Classically the term "republic" encompassed both democracies and aristocracies and their mixtures.
democracy: By the 1800s, guns were the best personal weapons available, and in the United States of America (already nominally democratic), almost everyone could afford to buy a gun, and could learn how to use it fairly easily.
democracy: In the United States, the 1828 presidential election was the first in which non-property-holding white males could vote in the vast majority of states.
democracy: Many countries such as the United Kingdom, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, Scandinavian countries, Thailand, Japan and Bhutan turned powerful monarchs into constitutional monarchs (often gradually) with limited or symbolic roles.
democracy: Unemployment is associated with anti-democratic beliefs.
democracy: By contrast, in a cosmopolitan democracy, the people who are affected by decisions also have a say in them.
democracy: In consequence, however, the president and the legislature may end up in the control of separate parties, allowing one to block the other and thereby interfere with the orderly operation of the state.
democracy: In other words, Hobbes advocated for an absolute monarchy which, in his opinion, was the best form of government.
democracy: Similarly, Ronald Dworkin argues that "democracy is a substantive, not a merely procedural, ideal."
democracy: The creation of the International Criminal Court in 2003 was seen as a major step forward by many supporters of this type of cosmopolitan democracy.
democracy: The main idea about creative democracy is that democracy encourages individual capacity building and the interaction among the society.
democracy: In 1789, Revolutionary France adopted the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and, although short-lived, the National Convention was elected by all men in 1792.
democracy: The Swiss confederation is a semi-direct democracy.
democracy: It has often been assumed that democracy causes peace, but this study shows that, historically, peace has almost always predated the establishment of democracy.
democracy: World War II brought a definitive reversal of this trend in Western Europe.
democracy: In addition, the overthrow of the Roman Kingdom created a system with a democratic element in the form of many different popular assamblies.
democracy: This is conducive to political populism rather than serious deliberation.
democracy: With its emphasis on notions of social contract and the collective will of all the voters, democracy can also be characterised as a form of political collectivism because it is defined as a form of government in which all eligible citizens have an equal say in lawmaking.
democracy: At the time of the first Presidential election in 1789, about 6% of the population was eligible to vote.
democracy: Political polarization is emerging when different people read different news and watch different TV channels.
democracy: A subsequent wave of democratisation brought substantial gains toward true liberal democracy for many states, dubbed "third wave of democracy".
democracy: A parpolity is meant to work in tandem with a participatory economy.
democracy: Democracy is a form of government in which political power is vested in the people or the population of a state.
democracy: The median mandate views the preferences of the median voter as granting political legitimacy.
democracy: Though the term "democracy" is typically used in the context of a political state, the principles also are potentially applicable to private organisations, such as clubs, societies and firms.
democracy: This is done through a vote of no confidence where the legislature decides whether or not to remove the prime minister from office with majority support for dismissal.
democracy: The notion of democracy has evolved considerably over time.
democracy: However, these polyarchic procedures may not create a full democracy if, for example, poverty prevents political participation.
democracy: In a parliamentary system, the prime minister may be dismissed by the legislature at any point in time for not meeting the expectations of the legislature.
democracy: The English Civil War (1642–1651) was fought between the King and an oligarchic but elected Parliament, during which the idea of a political party took form with groups debating rights to political representation during the Putney Debates of 1647.
democracy: The Constitution provided for an elected government and protected civil rights and liberties, but did not end slavery nor extend voting rights in the United States, instead leaving the issue of suffrage to the individual states.
democracy: The war was followed by decolonisation, and again most of the new independent states had nominally democratic constitutions.
democracy: "Government of the people, by the people, for the people"
or of Karl Popper saying that the "classical" view of democracy is, "in brief, the theory that:
democracy: The authors propose to create a new set of four features to conceptualize and measure democracy.
democracy: These democracies, which combine elements of representative democracy and direct democracy, are termed semi-direct democracies or participatory democracies.
democracy: According to Locke, individuals would voluntarily come together to form a state for the purposes of defending their rights.
democracy: The Naturalization Act of 1790 limited U.S.
democracy: One form of democracy is direct democracy, in which all eligible citizens have active participation in the political decision making, for example voting on policy initiatives directly.
democracy: In the Roman Catholic Church, the pope has been elected by a papal conclave composed of cardinals since 1059.
democracy: Under Cleisthenes, what is generally held as the first example of a type of democracy in the sixth-century BC (508–507 BC) was established in Athens.
democracy: Cleisthenes is referred to as "the father of Athenian democracy".
democracy: Constitutions typically require consensus or supermajorities.
democracy: Also in 2007 the United Nations declared 15 September the International Day of Democracy.
democracy: On the other hand, direct democracy, where citizens vote directly on legislative proposals, can show better aggregation in cases of differences in preferences between elites and voters.
democracy: Features of democracy often include freedom of assembly, association, personal property, freedom of religion and speech, citizenship, consent of the governed, voting rights, freedom from unwarranted governmental deprivation of the right to life and liberty, and minority rights.
democracy: In 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights mandated democracy:
democracy: His liberal democratic framework of governance remains the preeminent form of democracy in the world.
