devops: According to American software architect Neal Ford, DevOps, particularly through continuous delivery, employs the "bring the pain forward" principle by tackling challenging tasks early, fostering automation, and enabling swift issue detection.
devops: Today, DevOps focuses on deploying methodology-agnostic, developed software.
devops: ISBN 978-1-942788-33-1.
devops: In 2009, the first DevOps Days conference was held in Ghent, Belgium.
devops: Integrating schema changes, migrations, reference data, and other data-layer updates into the same version-controlled and automated pipelines used for application code enables more reliable deployments.
devops: While DataOps began as a set of best practices, it has now matured to become a new and independent approach to data analytics.
devops: Sebastopol, CA: O'Reilly.
devops: DevOps encompasses the tasks necessary for software development and can lead to both shortening development time and improving the development life cycle.
devops: Establish governance discipline, with a particular focus on two-way data control, data ownership, transparency, and comprehensive data lineage tracking through the entire workflow.
devops: In contrast, larger organizations may have separate repositories and pipelines for each team or even separate repositories and pipelines for each service within a team.
devops: Often, detected defects from static and dynamic testing are triaged and categorized under taxonomies like the  Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE), maintained by the Mitre Corporation.
devops: Validate with the “eyeball test”: Include continuous-improvement -oriented human feedback loops.
devops: DataOps applies to the entire data lifecycle from data preparation to reporting, and recognizes the interconnected nature of the data analytics team and information technology operations.
devops: Automate as many stages of the data flow as possible including BI, data science, and analytics.
devops: Typical database DevOps practices include placing database schema definitions under version control, applying automated tests (such as unit tests or migration validation) to database changes, and deploying those changes through CI/CD pipelines.
devops: ISBN 978-1-942788-00-3.
devops: In dynamic testing, also called black-box testing, software is tested without knowing its inner functions.
devops: In DevSecOps this practice may be referred to as dynamic application security testing (DAST) or penetration testing.
devops: Although debated, DevOps is generally characterized by three key principles: shared ownership, workflow automation, and rapid feedback.
devops: Define rules for an abstracted semantic layer.
devops: In 2003, Google developed site reliability engineering (SRE), an approach for releasing new features continuously into large-scale, high-availability systems while maintaining a high-quality end-user experience.
devops: This merging of software development and IT operations has improved velocity, quality, predictability and scale of software engineering and deployment.
devops: Because Scrum emerged as the dominant Agile framework in the early 2000s and it omitted the engineering practices that were part of many Agile teams, the momentum to automate operations and infrastructure functions splintered from Agile and expanded into what has become modern DevOps.
devops: The goal is early detection of defects including cross-site scripting and SQL injection vulnerabilities.
devops: The conference was founded by Belgian IT consultant and practitioner Patrick Debois.
devops: Deployment Frequency: Time between code deployments.
devops: However, the research methodology and metrics were criticized by some experts.
devops: DevSecOps has also been described as a cultural shift involving a holistic approach to producing secure software by integrating security education, security by design, and security automation.
devops: OCLC 951434424.
devops: Traditional DevOps focuses on streamlining the general software development process, but mobile development has unique challenges that require a tailored approach.
devops: DevOps attempts to support consistency, reliability, and efficiency within an organization.
devops: Mobile DevOps is a methodology that applies DevOps' principles to the development of mobile applications.
devops: This facilitates the prioritization of security bug fixes and also allows frequently recurring weaknesses to be fixed with recommended mitigations.
devops: As of 2025, CWE maintained its own list of frequently-occurring weaknesses, the CWE Top 25.
devops: Mean Lead Time for Changes: Time between code commit and deployment.
devops: In 2016, the DORA metrics for throughput (deployment frequency, lead time for changes), and stability (mean time to recover, change failure rate) were published in that year's State of DevOps report.
devops: Depending on the programming language, different tools are needed to do such static code analysis.
devops: DataOps is a moniker for "Data Operations." 2017 was a significant year for DataOps, with significant ecosystem development, analyst coverage, increased keyword searches, surveys, publications, and open source projects.
devops: The DevOps handbook: how to create world-class agility, reliability, and security in technology organizations (First ed.).
devops: Borrowing methods from DevOps, DataOps seeks to bring these same improvements to data analytics.
devops: DevOps is the integration and automation of software development and information technology operations.
devops: Gartner placed DataOps on the Hype Cycle for Data Management in 2018.
devops: It takes its name from the popular version control system Git, and the specific state of deployment configuration is also version-controlled.
devops: Configuration changes can be managed using code review practices, and can be rolled back using version-controlling.
devops: Teams perform tests and implement security practices earlier in the development lifecycle, hence the term "shift left".
devops: Change Failure Rate: Percentage of deployments causing production issues.
devops: Failed Deployment Recovery Time (formerly Mean Time to Recover)
Reliability: Measures operational performance by focusing on availability and adherence to user expectations.
devops: ISBN 978-1-4919-2643-7.
devops: Additionally, improved collaboration and communication between and within teams helps them achieve faster time to market with reduced risks.
devops: The conference has now spread to other countries.
devops: DataOps seeks to provide the tools, processes, and organizational structures to accommodate this significant increase in data.
devops: The best DataOps tools promote collaboration, orchestration, quality, security, access and ease of use.
devops: The software composition is analyzed, especially libraries, and the version of each component is checked against vulnerability lists published by CERT and other expert groups.
devops: At its most successful, DevOps is a combination of specific practices, culture change, and tools.
devops: Contrary to the "top-down" prescriptive approach and rigid framework of ITIL in the 1990s, DevOps is "bottom-up" and flexible, having been created by software engineers for their own needs.
devops: DevOps focuses on continuous delivery by leveraging on-demand IT resources and by automating test and deployment of software.
devops: Portland, OR.
devops: Some of the original authors of the discipline consider SRE as an implementation of DevOps.
devops: These metrics include:
devops: Security is tested in three main areas: static, software composition, and dynamic.
devops: When giving software to clients, library licenses and their match to the license of the software distributed are in focus, especially copyleft licenses.
devops: Kim, Gene; Debois, Patrick; Willis, John; Humble, Jez; Allspaw, John (2015-10-07).
devops: In 2025, DORA moved away from sorting teams into performance tiers and instead introduced seven team archetypes that combine delivery metrics with human factors like burnout, friction, and perceived value.
devops: Checking software statically via static application security testing (SAST) is white-box testing with special focus on security.
devops: The Toyota Production System (TPS), inspired lean thinking with its focus on continuous improvement, kaizen, flow, and small batches.
devops: OCLC 907166314.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Forsgren, Nicole; Humble, Jez; Kim, Gene (27 March 2018).
devops: Agile development teams using methods such as extreme programming couldn't "satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software" unless they took responsibility for operations and infrastructure for their applications, automating much of that work.
devops: These practices reduce what is commonly referred to as "schema drift" between development and production systems and lower the risk of deployment failures.
devops: The andon cord principle of creating fast feedback, swarming, and solving problems stems from TPS.
devops: ArchOps holds that architectural models are first-class entities in software development, deployment, and operations.
devops: Permissions: In the context of pipeline-related permissions, adhering to the principle of least privilege can be challenging due to the dynamic nature of architecture.
devops: Accelerate: The Science of Lean Software and DevOps: Building and Scaling High Performing Technology Organizations (First ed.).
devops: The term DataOps was later popularized by Andy Palmer of Tamr and Steph Locke.
devops: Administrators may opt for more relaxed permissions while implementing compensating security controls to minimize the blast radius.
devops: Using benchmarked performance information, identify bottlenecks and then optimize for them.
devops: This approach also enables improved coordination between application and data changes.
devops: DataOps incorporates the Agile methodology to shorten the cycle time of analytics development in alignment with business goals.
devops: Ensure everyone is “speaking the same language” and agrees upon what the data (and metadata) is and is not.
devops: Mobile DevOps is not simply a branch of DevOps specific to mobile app development, but rather an extension and reinterpretation of the DevOps philosophy tailored to mobile's specific requirements.
devops: “Establish progress and performance measurements at every stage of the data flow.
devops: As explained by Red Hat, "visibility to change means the ability to trace and reproduce issues quickly, improving overall security."
devops: Consumers must be able to trust the data, and that can only come with incremental validation.
devops: Design process for growth and extensibility.
devops: With SPC in place, the data flowing through an operational system is constantly monitored and verified.
devops: Number of Pipelines: Small teams can be more productive by having one repository and one pipeline.
devops: The data flow model must be designed to accommodate volume and variety of data.
devops: The motivations for what has become modern DevOps and several standard DevOps practices such as automated build and test, continuous integration, and continuous delivery originated in the Agile world, which informally dates to the 1990s and formally to 2001.
devops: Ensure enabling technologies are priced affordably to scale with that enterprise data growth.”
devops: However, the term is used in multiple contexts.
devops: The 2024 report restructured the metrics framework by moving failed deployment recovery time from stability to throughput and introducing a new "rework rate" metric measuring the proportion of unplanned deployments made to fix user-visible issues.
devops: Contrary to a traditional centralized security team model, each delivery team is empowered to factor the correct security controls into their software delivery.
devops: Essentially, all of the changes to a code are tracked, bookmarked, and making any updates to the history can be made easier.
devops: While SRE predates the development of DevOps, they are generally viewed as being related to each other.
devops: This is usually enabled by a shared code repository or version control.
devops: Automation streamlines data preboarding, ingestion, and the management of large integrated databases, freeing the data team to develop new analytics in a more efficient and effective way.
devops: DataOps is not tied to a particular technology, architecture, tool, language or framework.
devops: DataOps seeks to increase velocity, reliability, and quality of data analytics.
devops: If an anomaly occurs, the data analytics team can be notified with an automated alert.
devops: This may require investment in commodity hardware, or automation of a formerly-human-delivered data-science step in the process.
devops: Effective DevOps: building a culture of collaboration, affinity, and tooling at scale.
devops: CI/CD is as critical to DevOps success as automation.
devops: Where possible, benchmark data-flow cycle times.
devops: Software programmers and architects should use fitness functions to keep their software in check.
devops: It emphasizes communication, collaboration, integration, automation, measurement and cooperation between data scientists, analysts, data/ETL (extract, transform, load) engineers, information technology (IT), and quality assurance/governance.
devops: In response to these criticisms, the 2023 State of DevOps report published changes that updated the stability metric "mean time to recover" to "failed deployment recovery time" acknowledging the confusion the previous metric had caused.
devops: IT Revolution Press.
devops: DataOps utilizes statistical process control (SPC) to monitor and control the data analytics pipeline.
devops: In 2012, the first "State of DevOps" report was published by Alanna Brown at Puppet Labs.
devops: In addition, organizations like Open Worldwide Application Security Project (OWASP) maintain lists of industry-wide frequently recurring software weaknesses.
devops: Many organizations use version control to facilitate DevOps automation technologies like virtual machines, containerization (or OS-level virtualization), and CI/CD, with the Git version control system and the GitHub platform referenced as examples.
