digital_art: Digital art also extends to the field of visual computing.
digital_art: Andy Warhol created digital art using an Amiga where the computer was publicly introduced at the Lincoln Center in July 1985.
digital_art: AI art
Algorithmic art
Computer art
Computer graphics
Electronic art
Generative art
Graphic arts
Graphic art software
List of 2D graphics software
New media art
Theatre of Digital Art
Vector graphics
Virtual art
digital_art: The essential idea of image generators is that people can use text descriptions to let AI convert their text into visual picture content.
digital_art: Movies make heavy use of computer-generated graphics; they are called computer-generated imagery (CGI) in the film industry.
digital_art: A representative example is Protocols for Achievements, which is a digital photo frame that confronts the aesthetics of kitsch, and inserts individual artistic dynamics within institutional media.
digital_art: Also in 2022, Refik Anadol created an artificial intelligence art installation at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, based on the museum's own collection.
digital_art: Furthermore, auction houses, museums, and galleries around the world have started to integrate NFTs and collaborate with digital artists, exhibiting their artworks (associated with the respective NFTs) both in virtual galleries and real-life screens, monitors, and TVs.
digital_art: There are many software programs for doing this.
digital_art: An image of Debbie Harry was captured in monochrome from a video camera and digitized into a graphics program called ProPaint.
digital_art: Then picture generators will return several similar pictures generated according to the input (generally, 4 pictures are given now).
digital_art: However, the technology received much criticism and has many flaws related to plagiarism and fraud (due to its almost completely unregulated nature).
digital_art: The term "internet art" is included by "net art" for which artists assume that network will be refreshed through history.
digital_art: In March 2024, Sotheby's presented an auction highlighting significant contributions of digital artists over the previous decade, one of many record-breaking auctions of digital artwork by the auction house.
digital_art: The technique is similar to what later became known as photographic mosaics.
digital_art: Digital installation art constitutes a broad field of artistic practices and a variety of forms.
digital_art: As such, it can be fully enjoyed only by persons with a relatively high knowledge level of relevant computer technologies.
digital_art: It can also refer to computational art that uses and engages with digital media.
digital_art: It can be used to generate pictures that have visual effects similar to traditional fine art.
digital_art: This type of installation is generally site-specific, scalable, and without fixed dimensionality, meaning it can be reconfigured to accommodate different presentation spaces.
digital_art: 3D graphics are created via the process of designing imagery from geometric shapes, polygons, or NURBS curves to create three-dimensional objects and scenes for use in various media such as film, television, print, rapid prototyping, games/simulations, and special visual effects.
digital_art: Warhol manipulated the image by adding color using flood fills.
digital_art: The technology can enable collaboration, lending itself to sharing and augmenting by a creative effort similar to the open source movement and the creative commons in which users can collaborate on a project to create art.
digital_art: Artworks are considered digital paintings when created similarly to non-digital paintings but using software on a computer platform and digitally outputting the resulting image as painted on canvas.
digital_art: This can be considered the native art form of the computer, and an introduction to the history of which is available in an interview with computer art pioneer Frieder Nake.
digital_art: Typically 2D computer graphics use raster graphics as their primary means of source data representations, whereas 3D computer graphics use vector graphics in the creation of immersive virtual reality installations.
digital_art: Fractal art, Datamoshing, algorithmic art, and real-time generative art are examples.
digital_art: It produces audiovisual presentations.
digital_art: Digital art, or the digital arts, is artistic work that uses digital technology as part of the creative or presentational process.
digital_art: Close reading focuses on specific visual aspects of one piece.
digital_art: The term is usually applied to works created entirely with a computer.
digital_art: Digital visual art consists of either 2D visual information displayed on an electronic visual display or information mathematically translated into 3D information viewed through perspective projection on an electronic visual display.
digital_art: In this case, however, the image is on the computer screen, and the instrument you draw with might be a tablet stylus or a mouse.
digital_art: Since the 1960s, various names have been used to describe digital art, including computer art, electronic art, multimedia art, and new media art.
digital_art: Common tasks relating to this method include automatic classification, object detection, multimodal tasks, knowledge discovery in art history, and computational aesthetics.
digital_art: Media related to Digital art at Wikimedia Commons
Dreher, Thomas.
digital_art: Whereas distant viewing includes the analysis of large collections, close reading involves one piece of artwork.
digital_art: This form of art does not concentrate only on the aesthetics of the final presentation, but also on the complexities and skills involved in creating the presentation.
digital_art: They are a novel form of art, which emerged as a consequence of the home computer revolution in the early 1980s.
digital_art: It can also include selecting a specific artist style, screen style, image pixel size, brightness, etc.
digital_art: These auctions look broadly at the cultural impact of digital art in the 21st century and feature work by artists such as Jennifer & Kevin McCoy, Vera Molnár, Claudia Hart, Jonathan Monaghan, and Sarah Zucker.
digital_art: Digital art education has become more common with the advancement of digital hardware and software.
digital_art: "History of Computer Art"
Zorich, Diane M.
digital_art: This differs from art using digital tools, which incorporate digital technology in the creation process but may exist outside the digital world.
digital_art: In the 1990s and early 2000s, CGI advanced enough that, for the first time, it was possible to create realistic 3D computer animation, although films had been using extensive computer images since the mid-70s.
digital_art: A number of modern films have been noted for their heavy use of photo-realistic CGI.
digital_art: Computer-generated animations are animations created with a computer from digital models created by 3D artists or procedurally generated.
digital_art: Proprietary repositories require a  purchase to license or use any image, while those operating under freemium models like Flaticon, Vecteezy, etc., provide some images for free and others for fee based on tiers.
digital_art: Two computational methods, close reading and distant viewing, are the typical approaches used to analyze digitized art.
digital_art: This has been made possible due to the large-scale digitization of artwork in the past few decades.
digital_art: By using projection techniques that enhance an audience's impression of sensory envelopment, many digital installations attempt to create immersive environments.
digital_art: Although the main goal of digitization was to allow for accessibility and exploration of these collections, the use of AI in analyzing them has brought about new research perspectives.
digital_art: By minting digital artworks as NFTs, artists can establish provable ownership.
digital_art: A possible third paradigm is to generate art in 2D or 3D entirely through the execution of algorithms coded into computer programs.
digital_art: Anyone can turn their language into a painting through a picture generator.
digital_art: Digital art historian Christiane Paul writes that it "is highly problematic to classify all art that makes use of digital technologies somewhere in its production and dissemination process as digital art since it makes it almost impossible to arrive at any unifying statement about the art form".
digital_art: Blockchain, and more specifically Non-Fungible Tokens(NFTs), have been a common tool for digital arts since the NFTs boom of 2020-2021.
digital_art: "Transitioning to a Digital World"
Chitrakala "Digital Art"
digital_art: Digital art includes pieces stored on physical media, such as with digital painting, as well as digital galleries on websites.
digital_art: Internet art is digital art that uses the specific characteristics of the Internet and is exhibited on the Internet.
digital_art: In 1963, Ivan Sutherland invented the first user interactive computer-graphics interface known as Sketchpad.
digital_art: The second kind is 3D computer graphics, where the screen becomes a window into a virtual environment, where you arrange objects to be "photographed" by the computer.
digital_art: Computer demos are based on computer programs, usually non-interactive.
digital_art: For example, the content can be a scene's content, characters, weather, character relationships, specific items, etc.
digital_art: After receiving the results generated by picture generators, the user can select one picture as a result he wants or let the generator redraw and return to new pictures.
digital_art: It was created by a collective in Paris named "Obvious".
digital_art: The simplest form, 2D computer graphics, reflects how one might draw with a pencil or paper.
digital_art: In 2009, Eric Millikin won the Pulitzer Prize along with several other awards for his artificial intelligence art that was critical of government corruption in Detroit and resulted in the city's mayor being sent to jail.
digital_art: Since their design in 2014, some artists have created artwork using a generative adversarial network (GAN), which is a machine learning framework that allows two "algorithms" to compete with each other and iterate.
digital_art: In 2018 Christie's auction house in New York sold an artificial intelligence work, "Edmond de Bellamy" for US$432,500.
digital_art: While others go even further and attempt to facilitate a complete immersion in virtual realms.
digital_art: So the term "post-internet art" is used to exclude artworks outside of the internet media.
digital_art: What is generated on your screen might appear to be drawn with a pencil, pen, or paintbrush.
digital_art: Some resemble video installations, especially large-scale works involving projections and live video capture.
digital_art: In contrast, through distant viewing methods, the similarity across an entire collection for a specific feature can be statistically visualized.
digital_art: In the classification of digital art, they can be best described as real-time procedurally generated animated audio-visuals.
digital_art: Whilst 2D and 3D digital art is beneficial as it allows the preservation of history that would otherwise have been destroyed by events like natural disasters and war, there is the issue of who should own these 3D scans – i.e., who should own the digital copyrights.
digital_art: Some tasks performed by machines in close reading methods include computational artist authentication and analysis of brushstrokes or texture properties.
digital_art: Digital art can be purely computer-generated (such as fractals and algorithmic art) or taken from other sources, such as a scanned photograph or an image drawn using vector graphics software using a mouse or graphics tablet.
