drama: One of the great flowerings of drama in England occurred in the 16th and 17th centuries.
drama: Japanese Nō drama is a serious dramatic form that combines drama, music, and dance into a complete aesthetic performance experience.
drama: It may also be used to refer to the more high-brow and serious end of the dramatic output of radio.
drama: With the Islamic conquests that began in the 10th and 11th centuries, theatre was discouraged or forbidden entirely.
drama: Chinese theatre has a long and complex history.
drama: Tragic dramatists were required to present a tetralogy of plays (though the individual works were not necessarily connected by story or theme), which usually consisted of three tragedies and one satyr play (though exceptions were made, as with Euripides' Alcestis in 438 BC).
drama: The Interlude of the Student and the Girl (c.
drama: Many of these plays were written in verse, particularly iambic pentameter.
drama: The comedy of sex and wit was about to be replaced by sentimental comedy and the drama of exemplary morality.
drama: Restoration comedy peaked twice.
drama: The self-contained nature of Bhramyoman, with all equipment and even the stage being carried by the troop itself, allows staging shows even in remote villages, giving wider reach.
drama: The ancient Vedas (hymns from between 1500 and 1000 BC that are among the earliest examples of literature in the world) contain no hint of it (although a small number are composed in a form of dialogue) and the rituals of the Vedic period do not appear to have developed into theatre.
drama: While Greek drama continued to be performed throughout the Roman period, the year 240 BC marks the beginning of regular Roman drama.
drama: 1300), one of the earliest known in English, seems to be the closest in tone and form to the contemporaneous French farces, such as The Boy and the Blind Man.
drama: These stories follow in the tradition of fables and folk tales.
drama: Famous early playwrights include Bhasa, Kalidasa (famous for Urvashi, Won by Valour, Malavika and Agnimitra, and The Recognition of Shakuntala), Śudraka (famous for The Little Clay Cart), Asvaghosa, Daṇḍin, and Emperor Harsha (famous for Nagananda, Ratnavali, and Priyadarsika).
drama: Kabuki drama, developed from the 17th century, is another comic form, which includes dance.
drama: Five comic dramatists competed at the City Dionysia (though during the Peloponnesian War this may have been reduced to three), each offering a single comedy.
drama: Characters were often used to represent different ethical ideals.
drama: Usually, there is a lesson learned, and with some help from the audience, the hero/heroine saves the day.
drama: At the much-anticipated all-star première in 1700 of The Way of the World, Congreve's first comedy for five years, the audience showed only moderate enthusiasm for that subtle and almost melancholy work.
drama: Western opera is a dramatic art form that arose during the Renaissance in an attempt to revive the classical Greek drama in which dialogue, dance, and song were combined.
drama: Karnad's numerous plays such as Tughlaq, Hayavadana, Taledanda, and Naga-Mandala are significant contributions to Indian drama.
drama: Kyōgen is the comic counterpart to Nō drama.
drama: 335 BC)—the earliest work of dramatic theory.
drama: Comedy was officially recognized with a prize in the competition from 487 to 486 BC.
drama: The term "radio drama" has been used in both senses—originally transmitted in a live performance.
drama: By the 11th century, it had spread through Europe to Russia, Scandinavia, and Italy; excluding Islamic-era Spain.
drama: Part of the appeal of amateur dramatics pantomime productions is seeing well-known local figures on stage.
drama: It is this narrower sense that the film and television industries, along with film studies, adopted to describe "drama" as a genre within their respective media.
drama: The wealth of archeological evidence from earlier periods offers no indication of the existence of a tradition of theatre.
drama: Assamese mobile theatre is estimated to be an industry worth a hundred million.
drama: Mime is a form of drama where the action of a story is told only through the movement of the body.
drama: Outside Britain the word "pantomime" is usually used to mean miming, rather than the theatrical form discussed here.
drama: The theatrical culture of the city-state of Athens produced three genres of drama: tragedy, comedy, and the satyr play.
drama: In the mid-1690s, a brief second Restoration comedy renaissance arose, aimed at a wider audience.
drama: It addresses acting, dance, music, dramatic construction, architecture, costuming, make-up, props, the organisation of companies, the audience, competitions, and offers a mythological account of the origin of theatre.
drama: Actors may have specialised in a particular type.
drama: Their origins remain obscure, though by the 5th century BC, they were institutionalised in competitions held as part of festivities celebrating the god Dionysus.
drama: Beginning in the early Middle Ages, churches staged dramatised versions of biblical events, known as liturgical dramas, to enliven annual celebrations.
drama: Performance of mime occurred in Ancient Greece, and the word is taken from a single masked dancer called Pantomimus, although their performances were not necessarily silent.
drama: By the beginning of the 2nd century BC, drama was firmly established in Rome and a guild of writers (collegium poetarum) had been formed.
drama: Everyman, for example, includes such figures as Good Deeds, Knowledge and Strength, and this characterisation reinforces the conflict between good and evil for the audience.
drama: An important part of the pantomime, until the late 19th century, was the harlequinade.
drama: Horestes (c.
drama: Authors of this period drew some of their storylines from Greek mythology and Roman mythology or from the plays of eminent Roman playwrights such as Plautus and Terence.
drama: From the later years of the republic and by means of the Roman Empire (27 BC–476 AD), theatre spread west across Europe, around the Mediterranean and reached England; Roman theatre was more varied, extensive and sophisticated than that of any culture before it.
drama: It developed partly from the 16th century commedia dell'arte tradition of Italy, as well as other European and British stage traditions, such as 17th-century masques and music hall.
drama: Nō drama was supported by the government, and particularly the military, with many military commanders having their own troupes and sometimes performing themselves.
drama: Étienne Decroux, a pupil of his, was highly influenced by this and started exploring and developing the possibilities of mime and refined corporeal mime into a highly sculptural form, taking it outside of the realms of naturalism.
drama: Comedy of manners is used as a synonym of Restoration comedy.
drama: Also important in this period were the folk dramas of the Mummers Play, performed during the Christmas season.
drama: Her plays are the first known to be composed by a female dramatist and the first identifiable Western drama of the post-Classical era.
drama: Plautus, the more popular of the two, wrote between 205 and 184 BC and twenty of his comedies survive, of which his farces are best known; he was admired for the wit of his dialogue and his use of a variety of poetic meters.
drama: Considered as a genre of poetry in general, the dramatic mode has been contrasted with the epic and the lyrical modes ever since Aristotle's Poetics (c.
drama: In addition to Shakespeare, such authors as Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Middleton, and Ben Jonson were prominent playwrights during this period.
drama: Twenty lean years followed this short golden age, although the achievement of the first professional female playwright, Aphra Behn, in the 1680s is an important exception.
drama: No plays from either writer have survived.
drama: No early Roman tragedy survives, though it was highly regarded in its day; historians know of three early tragedians—Quintus Ennius, Marcus Pacuvius, and Lucius Accius.
drama: It was developed in England and is still performed throughout the United Kingdom, generally during the Christmas and New Year season and, to a lesser extent, in other English-speaking countries.
drama: The use of "drama" in a more narrow sense to designate a specific type of play dates from the modern era.
drama: In the early nineteenth century Paris, Jean-Gaspard Deburau solidified the many attributes that we have come to know in modern times, including the silent figure in whiteface.
drama: Its dramatists stole freely from the contemporary French and Spanish stage, from English Jacobean and Caroline plays, and even from Greek and Roman classical comedies, combining the various plotlines in adventurous ways.
drama: The action of all scenes is set in the exterior location of a street and its complications often follow from eavesdropping.
drama: The Bhakti movement was influential in performances in several regions.
drama: Court masques were particularly popular during the reign of Henry VIII.
drama: Jacques Lecoq contributed significantly to the development of mime and physical theatre with his training methods.
drama: Restoration comedy refers to English comedies written and performed in England during the Restoration period from 1660 to 1710.
drama: The works of both playwrights are, in their different ways, both modernist and realist, incorporating formal experimentation, meta-theatricality, and social critique.
drama: The Roman comedies that have survived are all fabula palliata (comedies based on Greek subjects) and come from two dramatists: Titus Maccius Plautus (Plautus) and Publius Terentius Afer (Terence).
drama: Girish Karnad is a noted playwright, who has written a number of plays that use history and mythology, to critique and problematize ideas and ideals that are of contemporary relevance.
drama: 1400–1425) depicts an archetypal figure's progress from birth through to death.
drama: Vanbrugh's The Provoked Wife (1697) has a light touch and more humanly recognisable characters, while The Relapse (1696) has been admired for its throwaway wit and the characterisation of Lord Foppington, an extravagant and affected burlesque fop with a dark side.
drama: It utilised stock characters, such as the hero (nayaka), heroine (nayika), or clown (vidusaka).
drama: One of the most famous of the early secular plays is the courtly pastoral Robin and Marion, written in the 13th century in French by Adam de la Halle.
drama: It developed in the 14th and 15th centuries and has its own musical instruments and performance techniques, which were often handed down from father to son.
drama: In Congreve's Love for Love (1695) and The Way of the World (1700), the give-and-take set pieces of couples testing their attraction for one another have mutated into witty prenuptial debates on the eve of marriage, as in the latter's famous "Proviso" scene.
drama: Restoration comedy is known for its sexual explicitness, urbane, cosmopolitan wit, up-to-the-minute topical writing, and crowded and bustling plots.
drama: Later, Hildegard of Bingen wrote a musical drama, Ordo Virtutum (c.
drama: In terms of the traditional theoretical discourse of genre, Ibsen's work has been described as the culmination of "liberal tragedy", while Brecht's has been aligned with an historicised comedy.
drama: It concentrates more on dialogue and less on music, although Nō instrumentalists sometimes appear also in Kyōgen.
drama: Apart from regional languages, Assam saw the rise of Vaishnavite drama in an artificially mixed literary language called Brajavali.
drama: The genre came to spectacular maturity in the mid-1670s with an extravaganza of aristocratic comedies.
drama: From the time of the empire, the work of two tragedians survives—one is an unknown author, while the other is the Stoic philosopher Seneca.
drama: The Second Shepherds' Play from the Wakefield cycle is a farcical story of a stolen sheep that its protagonist, Mak, tries to pass off as his new-born child asleep in a crib; it ends when the shepherds from whom he has stolen are summoned to the Nativity of Jesus.
drama: Its roots in the United States began in the early 1900s.
drama: In Medieval Europe, early forms of mime, such as mummer plays and later dumbshows, evolved.
drama: Resulting differences of tone in a single play were appreciated rather than frowned on, as the audience prized "variety" within as well as between plays.
drama: (Quem-Quaeritis) (c.
drama: Following the expansion of the Roman Republic (527–509 BC) into several Greek territories between 270 and 240 BC, Rome encountered Greek drama.
drama: Closet drama is a form that is intended to be read, rather than performed.
drama: Pioneers of this industry include Achyut Lahkar and Brajanath Sarma.
drama: His plays are written in Bengali and include Chitra (Chitrangada, 1892), The King of the Dark Chamber (Raja, 1910), The Post Office (Dakghar, 1913), and Red Oleander (Raktakarabi, 1924).
drama: The enactment of drama in theatre, performed by actors on a stage before an audience, presupposes collaborative modes of production and a collective form of reception.
drama: The performers were generally male (for both male and female roles), although female amateurs also perform Nō dramas.
drama: Rabindranath Tagore was a pioneering modern playwright who wrote plays noted for their exploration and questioning of nationalism, identity, spiritualism and material greed.
drama: 1567), a late "hybrid morality" and one of the earliest examples of an English revenge play, brings together the classical story of Orestes with a Vice from the medieval allegorical tradition, alternating comic, slapstick scenes with serious, tragic ones.
drama: Western drama originates in classical Greece.
drama: The comedies of the golden 1670s and 1690s peak times are significantly different from each other.
drama: Jacques Copeau, strongly influenced by Commedia dell'arte and Japanese Noh theatre, used masks in the training of his actors.
drama: As in the medieval period, historical plays celebrated the lives of past kings, enhancing the image of the Tudor monarchy.
drama: The competition ("agon") for tragedies may have begun as early as 534 BC; official records ("didaskaliai") begin from 501 BC when the satyr play was introduced.
drama: During the second wave of Restoration comedy in the 1690s, the "softer" comedies of William Congreve and John Vanbrugh set out to appeal to more socially diverse audience with a strong middle-class element, as well as to female spectators.
drama: All of the six comedies that Terence wrote between 166 and 160 BC have survived; the complexity of his plots, in which he often combined several Greek originals, was sometimes denounced, but his double-plots enabled a sophisticated presentation of contrasting human behaviour.
drama: This kind of play uses stock characters seen in masque and again commedia dell'arte, these characters include the villain (doctore), the clown/servant (Arlechino/Harlequin/buttons), the lovers etc.
drama: Modern Bhramyoman stages everything from Hindu mythology to adaptations of Western classics and Hollywood movies, and make use of modern techniques, such as live visual effects.
drama: Its drama is regarded as the highest achievement of Sanskrit literature.
drama: The first important works of Roman literature were the tragedies and comedies that Livius Andronicus wrote from 240 BC.
drama: In the 10th century, Hrosvitha wrote six plays in Latin modeled on Terence's comedies, but which treated religious subjects.
drama: The major source of evidence for Sanskrit theatre is A Treatise on Theatre (Nātyaśāstra), a compendium whose date of composition is uncertain (estimates range from 200 BC to 200 AD) and whose authorship is attributed to Bharata Muni.
drama: Noteworthy is the major influence of the German 19th-century composer Richard Wagner on the opera tradition.
drama: These, along with Western influences, have inspired the development of modern mobile theatre, known in Assamese as Bhramyoman, in Assam.
drama: In improvisation, the drama does not pre-exist the moment of performance; performers devise a dramatic script spontaneously before an audience.
drama: After public theatre had been banned by the Puritan regime, the re-opening of the theatres in 1660 with the Restoration of Charles II signalled a renaissance of English drama.
drama: Greek & Roman Mask Timeline
drama: In re-working the Greek originals, the Roman comic dramatists abolished the role of the chorus in dividing the drama into episodes and introduced musical accompaniment to its dialogue (between one-third of the dialogue in the comedies of Plautus and two-thirds in those of Terence).
drama: Many plays survive from France and Germany in the late Middle Ages, when some type of religious drama was performed in nearly every European country.
drama: Morality plays (a modern term) emerged as a distinct dramatic form around 1400 and flourished in the early Elizabethan era in England.
drama: Aeschylus' historical tragedy The Persians is the oldest surviving drama, although when it won first prize at the City Dionysia competition in 472 BC, he had been writing plays for more than 25 years.
drama: The comic focus shifts from young lovers outwitting the older generation to the vicissitudes of marital relations.
drama: The two masks associated with drama represent the traditional generic division between comedy and tragedy.
drama: Pantomime has a long theatrical history in Western culture dating back to classical theatre.
drama: The term "drama" comes from a Greek word meaning "deed" or "act" (δρᾶμα, drâma), which is derived from "I do" (δράω, dráō).
drama: In England, trade guilds began to perform vernacular "mystery plays", which were composed of long cycles of many playlets or "pageants", of which four are extant: York (48 plays), Chester (24), Wakefield (32) and the so-called "N-Town" (42).
drama: The unsentimental or "hard" comedies of John Dryden, William Wycherley, and George Etherege reflected the atmosphere at Court and celebrated with frankness an aristocratic macho lifestyle of unremitting sexual intrigue and conquest.
drama: Modern pantomime includes songs, gags, slapstick comedy and dancing, employs gender-crossing actors, and combines topical humour with a story loosely based on a well-known fairy tale, fable or folk tale.
drama: Later, in an attempt to re-assert indigenous values and ideas, village theatre was encouraged across the subcontinent, developing in various regional languages from the 15th to the 19th centuries.
drama: These plays usually have an emphasis on moral dilemmas, and good always triumphs over evil, this kind of play is also very entertaining making it a very effective way of reaching many people.
drama: The structure of dramatic texts, unlike other forms of literature, is directly influenced by this collaborative production and collective reception.
drama: Chinese opera has seen a more conservative development over a somewhat longer period of time.
drama: From the beginning of the empire, however, interest in full-length drama declined in favour of a broader variety of theatrical entertainments.
drama: Many of these plays contained comedy, devils, villains, and clowns.
drama: While some ballet emphasises "the lines and patterns of movement itself" dramatic dance "expresses or imitates emotion, character, and narrative action".
drama: Ancient Greek comedy is traditionally divided between "old comedy" (5th century BC), "middle comedy" (4th century BC) and "new comedy" (late 4th century to 2nd BC).
drama: Between the 1st century AD and the 10th was a period of relative peace in the history of India during which hundreds of plays were written.
drama: Nine of Seneca's tragedies survive, all of which are fabula crepidata (tragedies adapted from Greek originals); his Phaedra, for example, was based on Euripides' Hippolytus.
drama: Two groups would sing responsively in Latin, though no impersonation of characters was involved.
drama: Modern theatrical and musical drama has also developed in Japan in forms such as shingeki and the Takarazuka Revue.
drama: Today it is often called Chinese opera although this normally refers specifically to the popular form known as Beijing opera and Kunqu; there have been many other forms of theatre in China, such as zaju.
drama: Winifred Ward is considered to be the founder of creative drama in education, establishing the first academic use of drama in Evanston, Illinois.
drama: A distinct form of one-act plays called Ankia Naat developed in the works of Sankardev, a particular presentation of which is called Bhaona.
drama: The Mahābhāṣya by Patañjali contains the earliest reference to what may have been the seeds of Sanskrit drama.
drama: Historians do not know who wrote the only extant example of the fabula praetexta (tragedies based on Roman subjects), Octavia, but in former times it was mistakenly attributed to Seneca due to his appearance as a character in the tragedy.
drama: The earliest-surviving fragments of Sanskrit drama date from the 1st century AD.
drama: Jatra (Bengali for "travel"), originating in the Vaishnavite movement of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu in Bengal, is a tradition that follows this format.
drama: Vijay Tendulkar and Mahesh Dattani are amongst the major Indian playwrights of the 20th century.
drama: Vaishnavite plays in the neighbouring state of Assam, pioneered by Srimanta Sankardeva, takes the forms of Ankia Naat and Bhaona.
drama: To restore the connection with the classical drama, he entirely renewed the operatic form to emphasize the equal importance of music and drama in works that he called "music dramas".
drama: The tolerance for Restoration comedy even in its modified form was running out by the end of the 17th century, as public opinion turned to respectability and seriousness even faster than the playwrights did.
drama: While both dramatists composed in both genres, Andronicus was most appreciated for his tragedies and Naevius for his comedies; their successors tended to specialise in one or the other, which led to a separation of the subsequent development of each type of drama.
drama: Being strongly intertwined with western classical music, the opera has undergone enormous changes in the past four centuries and it is an important form of theatre until this day.
drama: This treatise on grammar from 140 BC provides a feasible date for the beginnings of theatre in India.
drama: It is still performed in Japan today.
drama: The Treatise is the most complete work of dramaturgy in the ancient world.
drama: The single play that does most to support the charge of obscenity levelled then and now at Restoration comedy is probably Wycherley's masterpiece The Country Wife (1675), whose title contains a lewd pun and whose notorious "china scene" is a series of sustained double entendres.
drama: Mohan Rakesh in Hindi and Danish Iqbal in Urdu are considered architects of new age Drama.
drama: Śakuntalā (in English translation) influenced Goethe's Faust (1808–1832).
drama: The earliest example is the Easter trope Whom do you Seek?
drama: The Castle of Perseverance (c.
drama: Drama is the specific mode of fiction represented in performance: a play, opera, mime, ballet, etc., performed in a theatre, or on radio or television.
drama: Pantomime (informally "panto"), is a type of musical comedy stage production, designed for family entertainment.
drama: The earliest form of Indian drama was the Sanskrit drama.
drama: It was patronized by the kings as well as village assemblies.
drama: Mohan Rakesh's Aadhe Adhoore and Danish Iqbal's Dara Shikoh are considered modern classics.
drama: Five years later, Gnaeus Naevius also began to write drama.
drama: "Drama" in this sense refers to a play that is neither a comedy nor a tragedy—for example, Zola's Thérèse Raquin (1873) or Chekhov's Ivanov (1887).
drama: In his view, there was no proper balance between music and theatre in the operas of his time, because the music seemed to be more important than the dramatic aspects in these works.
drama: It is a participatory form of theatre, in which the audience is expected to sing along with certain parts of the music and shout out phrases to the performers.
drama: Only a small fraction of the work of five dramatists, however, has survived to this day: we have a small number of complete texts by the tragedians Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides, and the comic writers Aristophanes and, from the late 4th century, Menander.
drama: Modern Indian theatre developed during the period of colonial rule under the British Empire, from the mid-19th century until the mid-20th.
