ecology: It encompasses life processes, interactions, and adaptations; movement of materials and energy through living communities; successional development of ecosystems; cooperation, competition, and predation within and between species; and patterns of biodiversity and its effect on ecosystem processes.
ecology: Water transportation by plants is affected by osmotic pressure gradients.
ecology: Species are broadly categorized as autotrophs (or primary producers), heterotrophs (or consumers), and Detritivores (or decomposers).
ecology: Radiant energy from the sun generates heat, provides photons of light measured as active energy in the chemical reactions of life, and also acts as a catalyst for genetic mutation.
ecology: Disturbances are both the cause and product of natural fluctuations within an ecological community.
ecology: Hypotheses are evaluated with reference to a null hypothesis which states that random processes create the observed data.
ecology: Six major elements (hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur, and phosphorus; H, C, N, O, S, and P) form the constitution of all biological macromolecules and feed into the Earth's geochemical processes.
ecology: He influenced Charles Darwin, who adopted Linnaeus' phrase in The Origin of Species.
ecology: An example of an introductory population model describes a closed population, such as on an island, where immigration and emigration does not take place.
ecology: and from historical processes that split populations or species into different areas.
ecology: Ecological theory has also been used to explain self-emergent regulatory phenomena at the planetary scale: for example, the Gaia hypothesis is an example of holism applied in ecological theory.
ecology: As plants grow, they accumulate nutrients and are eaten by grazing herbivores, and the energy is transferred through a chain of organisms by consumption.
ecology: Ecosystems vary from tiny to vast.
ecology: Temperature is largely dependent on the incidence of solar radiation.
ecology: Biogeographical patterns result from ecological processes that influence range distributions, such as migration and dispersal.
ecology: On the organismal scale, gravitational forces provide directional cues for plant and fungal growth (gravitropism), orientation cues for animal migrations, and influence the biomechanics and size of animals.
ecology: These constraints influence vertical limits of ecosystems in the biosphere, as organisms are physiologically sensitive and adapted to atmospheric and osmotic water pressure differences.
ecology: Fire is a significant ecological parameter that raises many issues pertaining to its control and suppression.
ecology: The latitudinal and longitudinal spatial variation of temperature greatly affects climates and consequently the distribution of biodiversity and levels of primary production in different ecosystems or biomes across the planet.
ecology: The realized niche is the set of environmental plus ecological conditions under which a species persists.
ecology: "Until recently, however, cognitive scientists have not paid sufficient attention to the fundamental fact that cognitive traits evolved under particular natural settings.
ecology: Biogeography has a long history in the natural sciences concerning the spatial distribution of plants and animals.
ecology: The history is characterized by periods of significant transformation followed by millions of years of stability.
ecology: Ecosystems are dynamically interacting systems of organisms, the communities they make up, and the non-living (abiotic) components of their environment.
ecology: Sunlight is the primary input of energy into the planet's ecosystems.
ecology: There were untapped sources of free energy within the mixture of reducing and oxidizing gasses that set the stage for primitive ecosystems to evolve and, in turn, the atmosphere also evolved.
ecology: While the issue of fire in relation to ecology and plants has been recognized for a long time, Charles Cooper brought attention to the issue of forest fires in relation to the ecology of forest fire suppression and management in the 1960s.
ecology: Ancient Greek philosophers such as Hippocrates and Aristotle recorded observations on natural history.
ecology: Natural historians, such as Humboldt, James Hutton, and Jean-Baptiste Lamarck laid the foundations of ecology.
ecology: Light is composed of electromagnetic energy of different wavelengths.
ecology: When the relative abundance or biomass of each species is sorted into its respective trophic level, they naturally sort into a 'pyramid of numbers'.
ecology: In 1957, G.
ecology: Microbiomes were discovered largely through advances in molecular genetics, which have revealed a hidden richness of microbial diversity on the planet.
ecology: Wilson predicted in 1992 that the 21st century "will be the era of restoration in ecology".
ecology: The science of ecology as it is known today began with a group of American botanists in the 1890s.
ecology: Haeckel was a zoologist, artist, writer, and later in life a professor of comparative anatomy.
ecology: Molecular ecology uses analytical techniques to study genes in an evolutionary and ecological context.
ecology: These migration routes involved an expansion of the range as plant populations expanded from one area to another.
ecology: For example, the dynamic history of the planetary atmosphere's CO2 and O2 composition has been affected by the biogenic flux of gases coming from respiration and photosynthesis, with levels fluctuating over time in relation to the ecology and evolution of plants and animals.
ecology: These govern many of the geophysical properties and distributions of biomes across the Earth.
ecology: In so doing they modify, maintain and create habitats."
ecology: Ecology is both a biological science and a human science.
ecology: Ecology considers organisms at the individual, population, community, ecosystem, and biosphere levels.
ecology: Migration is also a population-level phenomenon, as with the migration routes followed by plants as they occupied northern post-glacial environments.
ecology: Plants convert carbon dioxide into biomass and emit oxygen into the atmosphere.
ecology: Autotrophs are organisms that produce their own food (production is greater than respiration) by photosynthesis or chemosynthesis.
ecology: Natural selection, life history, development, adaptation, populations, and inheritance thread equally into both.
ecology: Sea otters (Enhydra lutris) are commonly cited as an example because they limit the density of sea urchins that feed on kelp.
ecology: Behaviours can evolve by means of natural selection as adaptive traits conferring functional utilities that increases reproductive fitness.
ecology: The rise of molecular technologies and the influx of research questions into this new field resulted in the publication Molecular Ecology in 1992.
ecology: In the r/K-selection model, the first variable r is the intrinsic rate of natural increase in population size and the second variable K is the carrying capacity of a population.
ecology: When soils are flooded, they quickly lose oxygen, becoming hypoxic (an environment with O2 concentration below 2 mg/liter) and eventually completely anoxic where anaerobic bacteria thrive among the roots.
ecology: Food chains in an ecological community create a complex food web.
ecology: Molecular ecological research became more feasible with the development of rapid and accessible genetic technologies, such as the polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
ecology: Plant ecologists use pollen records that accumulate and stratify in wetlands to reconstruct the timing of plant migration and dispersal relative to historic and contemporary climates.
ecology: Small scale patterns do not necessarily explain larger ones, as in Aristotle's expression "the sum is greater than the parts".
ecology: Organisms are subject to environmental pressures, but they also modify their habitats.
ecology: Ellen Swallow Richards adopted the term "oekology" in the U.S.
ecology: Ecology and evolutionary biology are sister disciplines.
ecology: Biodiversity within ecosystems can be organized into trophic pyramids, in which the vertical dimension represents feeding relations that become further removed from the base of the food chain up toward top predators, and the horizontal dimension represents the abundance or biomass at each level.
ecology: 425 BC), who described mutualism in his observation of "natural dentistry".
ecology: The biogeographic processes that result in the natural splitting of species explain much of the modern distribution of the Earth's biota.
ecology: Ecosystem processes, such as primary production, nutrient cycling, and niche construction, regulate the flux of energy and matter through an environment.
ecology: Biodiversity can protect ecosystems from disturbances.
ecology: Other researchers have recently categorized other biomes, such as the human and oceanic microbiomes.
ecology: The relationship between ecology and genetic inheritance predates modern techniques for molecular analysis.
ecology: Throughout history, the Earth's atmosphere and biogeochemical cycles have been in a dynamic equilibrium with planetary ecosystems.
ecology: Collectively, these organisms are the detritivores that regulate soil formation.
ecology: Social-ecological behaviours are notable in the social insects, slime moulds, social spiders, human society, and naked mole-rats where eusocialism has evolved.
ecology: Basking Nile crocodiles, he noted, opened their mouths to give sandpipers safe access to pluck leeches out, giving nutrition to the sandpiper and oral hygiene for the crocodile.
ecology: Heterotrophs can be further sub-divided into different functional groups, including primary consumers (strict herbivores), secondary consumers (carnivorous predators that feed exclusively on herbivores), and tertiary consumers (predators that feed on a mix of herbivores and predators).
ecology: A disturbance is any process that changes or removes biomass from a community, such as a fire, flood, drought, or predation.
ecology: There is a larger taxonomy of movement, such as commuting, foraging, territorial behavior, stasis, and ranging.
ecology: Approximately 60% of all plants, for example, have a symbiotic relationship with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi living in their roots forming an exchange network of carbohydrates for mineral nutrients.
ecology: Behavioural ecology is the study of an organism's behaviour in its environment and its ecological and evolutionary implications.
ecology: Autotrophs—responsible for primary production—assimilate light energy which becomes metabolically stored as potential energy in the form of biochemical enthalpic bonds.
ecology: Each trophic level contains unrelated species that are grouped together because they share common ecological functions, giving a macroscopic view of the system.
ecology: The many connections that a keystone species holds means that it maintains the organization and structure of entire communities.
ecology: Holism is a critical part of the theory of ecology.
ecology: Complexity is understood as a large computational effort needed to assemble numerous interacting parts.
ecology: Heat is a form of energy that regulates temperature.
ecology: The transition to an oxygen-dominant atmosphere (the Great Oxidation) did not begin until approximately 2.4–2.3 billion years ago, but photosynthetic processes started 0.3–1 billion years prior.
ecology: Wind power and the turbulent forces it creates can influence heat, nutrient, and biochemical profiles of ecosystems.
ecology: The term "ecology" (German: Oekologie, Ökologie) was coined by Ernst Haeckel in his book Generelle Morphologie der Organismen (1866).
ecology: The term has several interpretations, and there are many ways to index, measure, characterize, and represent its complex organization.
ecology: The social insects, including ants, bees, and wasps are most famously studied for this type of relationship because the male drones are clones that share the same genetic make-up as every other male in the colony.
ecology: Relationships between species that are mutually or reciprocally beneficial are called mutualisms.
ecology: Ecology and evolution provide the explanatory context for biogeographical studies.
ecology: Soil is the living top layer of mineral and organic dirt that covers the surface of the planet.
ecology: Wilson in 1967, is one of the fundamentals of ecological theory.
ecology: Research in ecosystem ecology might measure primary production (g C/m^2) in a wetland in relation to decomposition and consumption rates (g C/m^2/y).
ecology: The environment of ecosystems includes both physical parameters and biotic attributes.
ecology: as early as 1892.
ecology: Frederic Clements published the first American ecology book, Research Methods in Ecology in 1905, presenting the idea of plant communities as a superorganism.
ecology: It is dynamically interlinked and contains resources for organisms at any time throughout their life cycle.
ecology: carbon, phosphorus) between different pools (e.g., tree biomass, soil organic material).
ecology: Ecology (from Ancient Greek  οἶκος (oîkos) 'house' and  -λογία (-logía) 'study of') is the natural science of the relationships among living organisms and their environment.
ecology: Like ecology, the term environment has different conceptual meanings and overlaps with the concept of nature.
ecology: where N is the total number of individuals in the population, b and d are the per capita rates of birth and death respectively, and r is the per capita rate of population change.
ecology: The simplified linear feeding pathways that move from a basal trophic species to a top consumer is called the food chain.
ecology: The largest scale of ecological organization is the biosphere: the total sum of ecosystems on the planet.
ecology: Natural capital that supports populations is critical for maintaining ecosystem services and species migration (e.g., riverine fish runs and avian insect control) has been implicated as one mechanism by which those service losses are experienced.
ecology: Ecological traits, such as allocation of biomass in trees during growth are subject to mechanical failure as gravitational forces influence the position and structure of branches and leaves.
ecology: In contrast, group selectionists find examples of altruism among non-genetic relatives and explain this through selection acting on the group; whereby, it becomes selectively advantageous for groups if their members express altruistic behaviours to one another.
ecology: Biodiversity includes species diversity, ecosystem diversity, and genetic diversity and scientists are interested in the way that this diversity affects the complex ecological processes operating at and among these respective levels.
ecology: Community ecology is the study of the interactions among a collection of species that inhabit the same geographic area.
ecology: Conservation priorities and management techniques require different approaches and considerations to address the full ecological scope of biodiversity.
ecology: The oceanic microbiome plays a significant role in the ecological biogeochemistry of the planet's oceans.
ecology: This means that higher-order patterns of a whole functional system, such as an ecosystem, cannot be predicted or understood by a simple summation of the parts.
ecology: The evolution of the earliest organisms, likely anaerobic methanogen microbes, started the process by converting atmospheric hydrogen into methane (4H2 + CO2 → CH4 + 2H2O).
ecology: Water pressure in the depths of oceans requires that organisms adapt to these conditions.
ecology: Water influences the intensity and spectral composition of light as it reflects off the water surface and submerged particles.
ecology: The whole of the planet's soil ecosystems is called the pedosphere where a large biomass of the Earth's biodiversity organizes into trophic levels.
ecology: This aerates soils and stimulates heterotrophic growth and production.
ecology: Island biogeography, published by Robert MacArthur and Edward O.
ecology: Fire releases CO2 and converts fuel into ash and tar.
ecology: Ecologists study nutrient budgets to understand how these materials are regulated, flow, and recycled through the environment.
ecology: Their gills form electrochemical gradients that mediate salt excretion in salt water and uptake in fresh water.
ecology: As it cooled and a crust and oceans formed, its atmosphere transformed from being dominated by hydrogen to one composed mostly of methane and ammonia.
ecology: Research in community ecology might measure species diversity in grasslands in relation to soil fertility.
ecology: While the notion of trophic levels provides insight into energy flow and top-down control within food webs, it is troubled by the prevalence of omnivory in real ecosystems.
ecology: For example, diving animals such as whales, dolphins, and seals are adapted to deal with changes in sound due to water pressure differences.
ecology: On a planetary scale, ecosystems are affected by circulation patterns in the global trade winds.
ecology: This launched a debate between ecological holism and individualism that lasted until the 1970s.
ecology: Animal migration is set apart from other kinds of movement because it involves the seasonal departure and return of individuals from a habitat.
ecology: The term ecology (German: Ökologie) was coined in 1866 by the German scientist Ernst Haeckel.
ecology: Each of those aphids, in turn, supports diverse bacterial communities.
ecology: Aristotle and his student Theophrastus observed plant and animal migrations, biogeography, physiology, and their behavior, giving an early analogue to the concept of an ecological niche.
ecology: Poikilotherms have a body temperature largely dependent on the temperature of the external environment.
ecology: In this framework, the analytical tools of ecologists and evolutionists overlap as they study life through phylogenetics or Linnaean taxonomy.
ecology: Wind speed and turbulence influence evapotranspiration rates and energy budgets in plants and animals.
ecology: Evolutionary concepts relating to adaptation and natural selection are cornerstones of modern ecological theory.
ecology: forage biomass and quality) or indirectly (e.g.
ecology: This research has led to an understanding that there is global feedback between ecosystems and the physical parameters of this planet, including minerals, soil, pH, ions, water, and atmospheric gases.
ecology: Ecology has practical applications in fields such as conservation biology, wetland management, natural resource management, and human ecology.
ecology: In these island models, the rate of population change is described by:
ecology: The initial increase in population size is not limited by competition, leaving an abundance of available resources for rapid population growth.
ecology: There are different methods to define the continental boundaries of biomes dominated by different functional types of vegetative communities that are limited in distribution by climate, precipitation, weather, and other environmental variables.
ecology: For example, oxygen levels decrease with decreasing pressure and are a limiting factor for life at higher altitudes.
ecology: For example, wind running over the surface of a lake creates turbulence, mixing the water column and influencing the environmental profile to create thermally layered zones, affecting how fish, algae, and other parts of the aquatic ecosystem are structured.
ecology: Ethology is the study of observable movement or behaviour in animals.
ecology: The biology of life operates within a certain range of temperatures.
ecology: Plants, algae, and some bacteria absorb light and assimilate the energy through photosynthesis.
ecology: Trophic levels are part of the holistic or complex systems view of ecosystems.
ecology: As organisms feed and migrate through soils they physically displace materials, an ecological process called bioturbation.
ecology: These gases changed the way that light from the sun hit the Earth's surface and greenhouse effects trapped heat.
ecology: Biomes include tropical rainforest, temperate broadleaf and mixed forest, temperate deciduous forest, taiga, tundra, hot desert, and polar desert.
ecology: The term keystone species was coined by Robert Paine in 1969 and is a reference to the keystone architectural feature as the removal of a keystone species can result in a community collapse just as the removal of the keystone in an arch can result in the arch's loss of stability.
ecology: From the smallest scale of biology, the combined effect of billions of ecological processes amplify and regulate the biogeochemical cycles of the Earth.
ecology: All organisms have behaviours.
ecology: Soil microorganisms are influenced by and are fed back into the trophic dynamics of the ecosystem.
ecology: Wind speed, temperature and moisture content vary as winds travel across different land features and elevations.
ecology: The nature of connections in ecological communities cannot be explained by knowing the details of each species in isolation, because the emergent pattern is neither revealed nor predicted until the ecosystem is studied as an integrated whole.
ecology: It might also include the analysis of predator-prey dynamics, competition among similar plant species, or mutualistic interactions between crabs and corals.
ecology: There is a relationship between light, primary production, and ecological energy budgets.
ecology: Soils form composite phenotypes where inorganic matter is enveloped into the physiology of a whole community.
ecology: The underlying concept of an ecosystem can be traced back to 1864 in the published work of George Perkins Marsh ("Man and Nature").
ecology: It has been suggested that omnivores have a greater functional influence as predators because compared to herbivores, they are relatively inefficient at grazing.
ecology: However, they saw species as unchanging, while varieties were seen as aberrations.
ecology: Community ecologists study the determinants of patterns and processes for two or more interacting species.
ecology: Omnivores do not fit neatly into a functional category because they eat both plant and animal tissues.
ecology: Commonly used types of data include life history, fecundity, and survivorship, and these are analyzed using mathematical techniques such as matrix algebra.
ecology: The Journal of Biogeography was established in 1974.
ecology: Linnaeus founded an early branch of ecology that he called the economy of nature.
ecology: A keystone species is a species that is connected to a disproportionately large number of other species in the food-web.
ecology: Early forms of fermentation also increased levels of atmospheric methane.
ecology: The regulatory feedback between organisms and their environment can affect conditions from local (e.g., a beaver pond) to global scales, over time and even after death, such as decaying logs or silica skeleton deposits from marine organisms.
ecology: It is the chief organizing centre of most ecosystem functions, and it is of critical importance in agricultural science and ecology.
ecology: Ecosystems have biophysical feedback mechanisms that moderate processes acting on living (biotic) and abiotic components of the planet.
ecology: In cases where basic models are insufficient, ecologists may adopt different kinds of statistical methods, such as the Akaike information criterion, or use models that can become mathematically complex as "several competing hypotheses are simultaneously confronted with the data."
ecology: "New properties emerge because the components interact, not because the basic nature of the components is changed."
ecology: For example, the range and distribution of biodiversity and invasive species responding to climate change is a serious concern and active area of research in the context of global warming.
ecology: With consideration of the selection pressure on cognition, cognitive ecology can contribute intellectual coherence to the multidisciplinary study of cognition."
ecology: Heterotrophs are organisms that must feed on others for nourishment and energy (respiration exceeds production).
ecology: Human ecology is an interdisciplinary investigation into the ecology of our species.
ecology: To a microbe, the human body is a habitat and a landscape.
ecology: Food webs are a type of concept map used to illustrate and study pathways of energy and material flows.
ecology: Invertebrates that feed and shred larger leaves, for example, create smaller bits for smaller organisms in the feeding chain.
ecology: Over the next billion years, the metabolic activity of life transformed the atmosphere into a mixture of carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and water vapor.
ecology: The Earth was formed approximately 4.5 billion years ago.
ecology: The decomposition of dead organic matter (for example, leaves on the forest floor), results in soils containing minerals and nutrients that feed into plant production.
ecology: This could include investigations of motile sperm of plants, mobile phytoplankton, zooplankton swimming toward the female egg, the cultivation of fungi by weevils, the mating dance of a salamander, or social gatherings of amoeba.
ecology: Humboldt drew inspiration from Isaac Newton, as he developed a form of "terrestrial physics".
ecology: This framework forms a panarchy and exhibits non-linear behaviors; this means that "effect and cause are disproportionate, so that small changes to critical variables, such as the number of nitrogen fixers, can lead to disproportionate, perhaps irreversible, changes in the system properties."
ecology: Biogeography is the comparative study of the geographic distribution of organisms and the corresponding evolution of their traits in space and time.
ecology: Diffusion of carbon dioxide and oxygen is approximately 10,000 times slower in water than in air.
ecology: Biodiversity (an abbreviation of "biological diversity") describes the diversity of life from genes to ecosystems and spans every level of biological organization.
ecology: There are also practical applications in the field of biogeography concerning ecological systems and processes.
ecology: As the population becomes more crowded, it approaches the island's carrying capacity, thus forcing individuals to compete more heavily for fewer available resources.
ecology: For example, when an island is first colonized, density of individuals is low.
ecology: Ecology overlaps with the closely related sciences of biogeography, evolutionary biology, genetics, ethology, and natural history.
ecology: Ecologists study the abiotic and biotic factors that influence evolutionary processes, and evolution can be rapid, occurring on ecological timescales as short as one generation.
ecology: Ecosystems may be habitats within biomes that form an integrated whole and a dynamically responsive system having both physical and biological complexes.
ecology: Definitions of niche date back to 1917.
ecology: Kin selection explains altruism through genetic relationships, whereby an altruistic behaviour leading to death is rewarded by the survival of genetic copies distributed among surviving relatives.
ecology: In 1962, marine biologist and ecologist Rachel Carson's book Silent Spring helped to mobilize the environmental movement by alerting the public to toxic pesticides, such as DDT (C14H9Cl5), bioaccumulating in the environment.
ecology: Behaviours can be recorded as traits and inherited in much the same way that eye and hair colour can.
ecology: The main subdisciplines of ecology, population (or community) ecology and ecosystem ecology, differ in their contrasting paradigms.
ecology: Anoxygenic photosynthesis reduced hydrogen concentrations and increased atmospheric methane, by converting hydrogen sulfide into water or other sulfur compounds (for example, 2H2S + CO2 + hv → CH2O + H2O + 2S).
ecology: Heat and temperature relate importantly to metabolic activity.
ecology: Since then, ecologists have worked to bridge their understanding of the degradation of the planet's ecosystems with environmental politics, law, restoration, and natural resources management.
ecology: Ecosystem engineering is related to niche construction, but the former relates only to the physical modifications of the habitat whereas the latter also considers the evolutionary implications of physical changes to the environment and feedback on natural selection.
ecology: More specifically, "habitats can be defined as regions in environmental space that are composed of multiple dimensions, each representing a biotic or abiotic environmental variable; that is, any component or characteristic of the environment related directly (e.g.
ecology: Ecological relationships regulate the flux of energy, nutrients, and climate all the way up to the planetary scale.
ecology: Ecology has a complex origin.
ecology: Evelyn Hutchinson introduced "the set of biotic and abiotic conditions in which a species is able to persist and maintain stable population sizes." The niche is a central concept in the ecology of organisms and is sub-divided into fundamental and realized niches.
ecology: Trophic dynamics became the foundation for much work on energy and material flow through ecosystems.
ecology: Dispersal is usually distinguished from migration because it involves the one-way permanent movement of individuals from their birth population into another population.
ecology: The concept of metapopulations was defined in 1969 as "a population of populations which go extinct locally and recolonize".
ecology: Metapopulation ecology is another statistical approach that is often used in conservation research.
ecology: Biogeography and ecology share many of their disciplinary roots.
ecology: Modern ecology sees varieties as the real phenomena, leading to adaptation by natural selection.
ecology: Complexity stems from the interplay among levels of biological organization as energy, and matter is integrated into larger units that superimpose onto the smaller parts.
ecology: Social behaviours include reciprocally beneficial behaviours among kin and nest mates and evolve from kin and group selection.
ecology: This requires an understanding of the community connections between plants (i.e., primary producers) and the decomposers (e.g., fungi and bacteria).
ecology: In contrast, homeotherms regulate their internal body temperature by expending metabolic energy.
ecology: A food web is the archetypal ecological network.
ecology: Linnaeus was the first to frame the balance of nature as a testable hypothesis.
ecology: In the early 20th century, ecology transitioned from description to a more analytical form of scientific natural history.
ecology: Salt water plants (halophytes) have additional specialized adaptations, such as the development of special organs for shedding salt and osmoregulating their internal salt (NaCl) concentrations, to live in estuarine, brackish, or oceanic environments.
ecology: The former focuses on organisms' distribution and abundance, while the latter focuses on materials and energy fluxes.
ecology: Examples of mutualism include fungus-growing ants employing agricultural symbiosis, bacteria living in the guts of insects and other organisms, the fig wasp and yucca moth pollination complex, lichens with fungi and photosynthetic algae, and corals with photosynthetic algae.
ecology: The habitat of a species describes the environment over which it occurs and the type of community that is formed.
ecology: Biomes are larger units of organization that categorize regions of the Earth's ecosystems, mainly according to the structure and composition of vegetation.
ecology: Global patterns of biological diversity are complex.
ecology: Ecological concepts such as food chains, population regulation, and productivity were developed in the 1700s, through the works of microscopist Antonie van Leeuwenhoek (1632–1723) and botanist Richard Bradley (1688?–1732).
ecology: In 1942, Raymond Lindeman wrote a landmark paper on the trophic dynamics of ecology.
ecology: An understanding of biodiversity has practical applications for species and ecosystem-level conservation planners as they make management recommendations to consulting firms, governments, and industry.
ecology: Holism addresses the biological organization of life that self-organizes into layers of emergent whole systems that function according to non-reducible properties.
ecology: Turbulent forces in air and water affect the environment and ecosystem distribution, form, and dynamics.
ecology: A host is any entity that harbours another that is called the associate.
ecology: Keystone species have lower levels of biomass in the trophic pyramid relative to the importance of their role.
ecology: Heat affects growth rates, activity, behaviour, and primary production.
ecology: If sea otters are removed from the system, the urchins graze until the kelp beds disappear, and this has a dramatic effect on community structure.
ecology: Ecological concepts such as a balance and regulation in nature can be traced to Herodotus (died c.
ecology: The Gaia hypothesis states that there is an emergent feedback loop generated by the metabolism of living organisms that maintains the core temperature of the Earth and atmospheric conditions within a narrow self-regulating range of tolerance.
ecology: There is no sharp boundary separating ecology from evolution, and they differ more in their areas of applied focus.
ecology: elevation) to the use of a location by the animal."
ecology: The Hutchinsonian niche is defined more technically as a "Euclidean hyperspace whose dimensions are defined as environmental variables and whose size is a function of the number of values that the environmental values may assume for which an organism has positive fitness."
ecology: Biogeographer Alexander von Humboldt (1769–1859) recognized ecological gradients, where species are replaced or altered in form along environmental gradients.
ecology: Using these modeling techniques, Malthus' population principle of growth was later transformed into a model known as the logistic equation by Pierre Verhulst:
ecology: If there is a physical connection between host and associate, the relationship is called symbiosis.
ecology: Robert MacArthur advanced mathematical theory, predictions, and tests in ecology in the 1950s.
ecology: Ecosystem ecology is the science of determining the fluxes of materials (e.g.
ecology: A population consists of individuals of the same species that live, interact, and migrate through the same niche and habitat.
ecology: These early phases of population growth experience density-independent forces of natural selection, which is called r-selection.
ecology: The fundamental niche is the set of environmental conditions under which a species is able to persist.
ecology: Population ecology studies the dynamics of species populations and how these populations interact with the wider environment.
ecology: Plants capture solar energy and use it to synthesize simple sugars during photosynthesis.
ecology: The air expands and moisture condenses as the winds increase in elevation; this is called orographic lift and can cause precipitation.
ecology: It delivers ecosystem services across heterogeneous real-world landscapes, influenced by human management and environmental conditions.
ecology: Ecology is a branch of biology, and is the study of abundance, biomass, and distribution of organisms in the context of the environment.
ecology: Metapopulation models simplify the landscape into patches of varying levels of quality, and metapopulations are linked by the migratory behaviours of organisms.
ecology: Ecosystem engineers are defined as: "organisms that directly or indirectly modulate the availability of resources to other species, by causing physical state changes in biotic or abiotic materials.
ecology: Under crowded conditions, the population experiences density-dependent forces of natural selection, called K-selection.
ecology: Ecology surged in popular and scientific interest during the 1960–1970s environmental movement.
ecology: The loss of a keystone species results in a range of dramatic cascading effects (termed trophic cascades) that alters trophic dynamics, other food web connections, and can cause the extinction of other species.
ecology: This biocomplexity stems from the interplay among ecological processes that influence patterns at different scales, such as transitional areas or ecotones spanning landscapes.
ecology: Ecological interactions can be classified broadly into a host and an associate relationship.
ecology: In 1994, John Avise played a leading role in this area of science with the publication of his book, Molecular Markers, Natural History and Evolution.
ecology: r/K selection theory is one of the first predictive models in ecology used to explain life-history evolution.
ecology: Both explain properties and processes across different spatial or temporal scales of organization.
ecology: The biotic environment includes genes, cells, organisms, members of the same species (conspecifics) and other species that share a habitat.
ecology: The physiology of fish is adapted to compensate for environmental salt levels through osmoregulation.
ecology: Adaptation is the central unifying concept in behavioural ecology.
ecology: For example, the westerlies come into contact with the coastal and interior mountains of western North America to produce a rain shadow on the leeward side of the mountain.
ecology: Ecosystem ecologists attempt to determine the underlying causes of these fluxes.
ecology: Organisms capable of assimilating energy by photosynthesis or through inorganic fixation of H2S are autotrophs.
ecology: A single tree is of little consequence to the classification of a forest ecosystem, but is critically relevant to organisms living in and on it.
ecology: By approximately 350 million years ago (the end of the Devonian period), photosynthesis had brought the concentration of atmospheric oxygen above 17%, which allowed combustion to occur.
ecology: Ecology is an employed science of restoration, repairing disturbed sites through human intervention, in natural resource management, and in environmental impact assessments.
ecology: / "Ecology " entry  by Alkistis Elliott-Graves in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
The Nature Education Knowledge Project: Ecology
ecology: Biodiversity plays an important role in ecosystem services which by definition maintain and improve human quality of life.
ecology: The splitting of lineages in a species is called vicariance biogeography and it is a sub-discipline of biogeography.
ecology: The information is used for managing wildlife stocks and setting harvest quotas.
ecology: Its premise is that natural selection varies with population density.
ecology: Several generations of an aphid population can exist over the lifespan of a single leaf.
ecology: Even plants express complex behaviour, including memory and communication.
ecology: Groups with predominantly altruistic members survive better than groups with predominantly selfish members.
