economic_growth: "How Deep Are the Roots of Economic Development?".
economic_growth: PMC 7305220.
economic_growth: Such advances and increases in efficiency, they suggest, merely accelerate the drawing down of finite resources.
economic_growth: Notwithstanding the implications this component has for policy, the endogenous perspective on human capital investment emphasizes the possibility for broad-based effects which can be realized by other firms in the economy.
economic_growth: Both our individual narratives that associate wasteful consumption with quality of life and with status, and the narratives of the economic systems that still consider that environmental degradation and social inequality are inevitable outcomes of economic growth.
economic_growth: Bibcode:2020RSOS....790725R.
economic_growth: "Culture, Institutions and the Wealth of Nations".
economic_growth: Some of the most technologically important innovations in history involved increases in energy efficiency.
economic_growth: Third, the empirical analysis does not account for biases that are generated by reverse causality and omitted variables.
economic_growth: (1997) Determinants of Economic Growth: A Cross-Country Empirical Study.
economic_growth: In a global economy with a global financial capital market, financial capital flows to the countries with the highest return on investment.
economic_growth: In doing so, they make old technologies or products obsolete.
economic_growth: Increases in productivity are the major factor responsible for per capita economic growth—this has been especially evident since the mid-19th century.
economic_growth: In contrast to the classical paradigm, which underlined the positive implications of inequality for capital formation and economic growth, Galor and Zeira argue that inequality has an adverse effect on human capital formation and the development process, in all but the very poor economies.
economic_growth: GDP per person in the US was 30% more than it was in the UK.
economic_growth: Protection from the shocks produced by illness and death are usually taken care of within a country's social insurance system.
economic_growth: Another major cause of economic growth is the introduction of new products and services and the improvement of existing products.
economic_growth: Consequently, the political economy perspective on the relationship between inequality and growth have been revised and later studies have established that inequality may provide an incentive for the elite to block redistributive policies and institutional changes.
economic_growth: Offshore oil and gas have exponentially increased cost as water depth increases.
economic_growth: In effect taxpayers pay twice for new drugs and diagnostic procedures: First in tax subsidies and second for the high prices of diagnostic procedures treatments.
economic_growth: British conservative politician and journalist Nigel Lawson has deemed carbon emission trading an 'inefficient system of rationing'.
economic_growth: Alexander; Lawson, Daniel J.
economic_growth: Over the 20th century, the real price of many goods fell by over 90%.
economic_growth: The Journal of Economic History.
economic_growth: Because carbon capture and storage are as yet widely unproven, and its long term effectiveness (such as in containing carbon dioxide 'leaks') unknown, and because of current costs of alternative fuels, these policy responses largely rest on faith of technological change.
economic_growth: ISBN 978-0-691-18096-0.
economic_growth: Implicitly in this model rich countries are those that have invested a high share of GDP for a long time.
economic_growth: In contrast, economic growth caused only by increases in the amount of inputs available for use (increased population, for example, or new territory) counts as extensive growth.
economic_growth: It's time to call time on a 50-year argument.
economic_growth: per capita income, with increased investment in capital explaining only the remaining 20 percent.
economic_growth: Encyclopædia Britannica Online.
economic_growth: The Garrett Relation holds that there has been a fixed relationship between current rates of global energy consumption and the historical accumulation of world GDP, independent of the year considered.
economic_growth: According to Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson and James Robinson, the positive correlation between high income and cold climate is a by-product of history.
economic_growth: One branch of endogenous growth theory was developed on the foundations of the Schumpeterian theory, named after the 20th-century Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter.
economic_growth: Specifically, since the aggregate saving increases with inequality due to higher property to save among the wealthy, the classical viewpoint suggests that inequality stimulates capital accumulation and therefore economic growth.
economic_growth: {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Barro, Robert J.
economic_growth: 11 (1): 3107.
economic_growth: Malthus's examples included the number of seeds harvested relative to the number of seeds planted (capital) on a plot of land and the size of the harvest from a plot of land versus the number of workers employed.
economic_growth: Seemingly small differences in yearly GDP growth lead to large changes in GDP when compounded over time.
economic_growth: In line with the predictions of the Malthusian theory, a cross-country analysis finds a significant positive effect of the technological level on population density and an insignificant effect on income per capita significantly over the years 1–1500.
economic_growth: A Culture of Growth: the Origins of the Modern Economy.
economic_growth: University of Chicago Press.
economic_growth: The resulting endogenous growth theory, most notably advanced by Robert Lucas, Jr.
economic_growth: However, surprisingly few research empirically examine and quantify entrepreneurship's impact on growth.
economic_growth: It suggests that while the growth process may affect inequality, income distribution has no impact on the growth process.
economic_growth: (See also Diminishing returns)
Criticisms of classical growth theory are that technology, an important factor in economic growth, is held constant and that economies of scale are ignored.
economic_growth: Inequality is associated with lower redistribution, and lower redistribution (under-investment in education and infrastructure) is associated with lower economic growth.
economic_growth: Social Science Research Network.
economic_growth: This and other observations have led some economists to view GDP growth as the most important part of the field of macroeconomics:
economic_growth: Economic growth [is] the part of macroeconomics that really matters.
economic_growth: Addison Wesley.
economic_growth: Much of the literature on economic growth refers to the success story of the British state after the Glorious Revolution of 1688, in which high fiscal capacity combined with constraints on the power of the king generated some respect for the rule of law.
economic_growth: Since that replacement, the great expansion of total power was driven by continuous improvements in energy conversion efficiency.
economic_growth: Here the A of (t) "technical progress" was the reason for increased output.
economic_growth: Mokyr, Joel (2016).
economic_growth: For instance, former colonies have inherited corrupt governments and geopolitical boundaries (set by the colonizers) that are not properly placed regarding the geographical locations of different ethnic groups, creating internal disputes and conflicts that hinder development.
economic_growth: He argues that there is "little overall relation between income inequality and rates of growth and investment".
economic_growth: Gorodnichenko, Yuriy; Roland, Gerard (2017).
economic_growth: Great sources of productivity improvement in the late 19th century were railroads, steam ships, horse-pulled reapers and combine harvesters, and steam-powered factories.
economic_growth: Eric Hanushek and Dennis Kimko introduced measures of students' mathematics and science skills from international assessments into growth analysis.
economic_growth: The classical perspective, as expressed by Adam Smith, and others, suggests that inequality fosters the growth process.
economic_growth: Other major historical sources of productivity were automation, transportation infrastructures (canals, railroads, and highways), new materials (steel) and power, which includes steam and internal combustion engines and electricity.
economic_growth: In the Solow-Swan model countries with less capital/worker (poor countries) have a higher return on investment due to the diminishing returns to capital.
economic_growth: Some physical scientists like Sanyam Mittal regard continuous economic growth as unsustainable.
economic_growth: The rapid economic growth that occurred during the Industrial Revolution was remarkable because it was in excess of population growth, providing an escape from the Malthusian trap.
economic_growth: In practice, convergence was rarely achieved.
economic_growth: Thus, investing in health is warranted both from growth and equity perspectives, given the important role played by health in the economy.
economic_growth: those with temperate climates), they established institutions with this objective in mind and modeled them after those in their European homelands.
economic_growth: doi:10.1038/s41467-020-16941-y.
economic_growth: One important prediction of the model, mostly borne out by the data, is that of conditional convergence; the idea that poor countries will grow faster and catch up with rich countries as long as they have similar investment (and saving) rates and access to the same technology.
economic_growth: The Neoclassical perspective that is based on representative agent approach denies the role of inequality in the growth process.
economic_growth: Romer, Krugman, Barro, and Becker were in attendance along with many other high profiled economists of the time.
economic_growth: An advocate of reducing inequality levels, Piketty suggests levying a global wealth tax in order to reduce the divergence in wealth caused by inequality.
economic_growth: PMID 32257300.
economic_growth: Furthermore, Prussia and the Habsburg empire—much more heterogeneous states than England—were able to increase state capacity during the eighteenth century without constraining the powers of the executive.
economic_growth: Up to the present, there is also a direct relation between global economic wealth and the rate of global emissions.
economic_growth: Nature Human Behaviour.
economic_growth: However, his empirical strategy limits its applicability to the understanding of the relationship between inequality and growth for several reasons.
economic_growth: At the same time in the United States, GDP per person was $4,007, lower than the UK by about 20%.
economic_growth: We need to look for the quality of life of the planet." 
Those more optimistic about the environmental impacts of growth believe that, though localized environmental effects may occur, large-scale ecological effects are minor.
economic_growth: GDP per capita is the GDP of the entire country divided by the number of people in the country.
economic_growth: In the Solow–Swan model if productivity increases through technological progress, then output/worker increases even when the economy is in the steady state.
economic_growth: Burgess, Matthew G.; Carrico, Amanda R.; Gaines, Steven D.; Peri, Alessandro; Vanderheiden, Steve (2021).
economic_growth: Critics such as the Club of Rome argue that a narrow view of economic growth, combined with globalization, is creating a scenario where we could see a systemic collapse of our planet's natural resources.
economic_growth: Brondizio, one of the co-chairs of the report, said "We need to change our narratives.
economic_growth: Eventually high productivity growth in manufacturing reduced the sector size, as prices fell and employment shrank relative to other sectors.
economic_growth: The invention of processes for making cheap steel were important for many forms of mechanization and transportation.
economic_growth: According to Hernando De Soto, unclear property rights limits economic growth, as people cannot use land as collateral to secure loans, depriving many poor countries of one of their most important potential sources of capital.
economic_growth: Bjork, Gordon J.
economic_growth: This is not exactly middle-income trap.
economic_growth: "Measurement: Measurement of Economic Growth".
economic_growth: Crown Business division of Random House.
economic_growth: Much unregistered property is held in informal form through various property associations and other arrangements.
economic_growth: Thus health in a broader sense can be defined as not just the absence of illness, but the opportunity for people to live a full life and develop their full economic potential.
economic_growth: However, the extremum could be extended by technological and policy innovations and some countries move into innovative growth domain with higher limiting values.
economic_growth: Andrew Berg and Jonathan Ostry of the International Monetary Fund, find that "lower net inequality is robustly correlated with faster and more durable growth, controlling for the level of redistribution".
economic_growth: Economic Growth.
economic_growth: 108 (supplement_4): 21316–21319.
economic_growth: This measure also presumes that human capital is only developed in formal schooling, contrary to the extensive evidence that families, neighborhoods, peers, and health also contribute to the development of human capital.
economic_growth: Leave Me Alone and I'll Make You Rich: How the Bourgeois Deal Enriched the World.
economic_growth: Unregistered businesses and lack of accepted accounting methods are other factors that limit potential capital.
economic_growth: They suggested that new knowledge was indivisible and that it is endogenous with a certain fixed cost.
economic_growth: Robert Solow and Trevor Swan developed what eventually became the main model used in growth economics in the 1950s.
economic_growth: PMC 7062048.
economic_growth: innovation).
economic_growth: Thus, a small difference in economic growth rates between countries can result in very different standards of living for their populations if this small difference continues for many years.
economic_growth: Economic growth has traditionally been attributed to the accumulation of human and physical capital and the increase in productivity and creation of new goods arising from technological innovation.
economic_growth: Accordingly, human capital is theorized to deliver increasing rates of return unlike physical capital.
economic_growth: In particular, Galor and Zeira argue that since credit markets are imperfect, inequality has an enduring impact on human capital formation, the level of income per capita, and the growth process.
economic_growth: In many poor and developing countries much land and housing are held outside the formal or legal property ownership registration system.
economic_growth: As the above table shows, this means that GDP per person grew, on average, by 1.80% per year in the US and by 1.47% in the UK.
economic_growth: However, in later phases, as human capital become the main engine of economic growth, more equal distribution of income, in the presence of credit constraints, stimulated investment in human capital and economic growth.
economic_growth: ISBN 978-0-691-12135-2.
economic_growth: Malthusianism is the idea that population growth is potentially exponential while the growth of the food supply or other resources is linear, which eventually reduces living standards to the point of triggering a population die off.
economic_growth: and his student Paul Romer, includes a mathematical explanation of technological advancement.
economic_growth: In recent decades there have been several Asian countries with high rates of economic growth driven by capital investment.
economic_growth: Their successes rested on giving land and a voice in the government to every male settler to incentivize productive labor.
economic_growth: In the case of the limited resource of land, famine was relieved firstly by the revolution in transportation caused by railroads and steam ships, and later by the Green Revolution and chemical fertilizers, especially the Haber process for ammonia synthesis.
economic_growth: Industrialization creates a demographic transition in which birth rates decline and the average age of the population increases.
economic_growth: (2008) Economic Growth 2nd ed.
economic_growth: The Malthusian theory also proposes that over most of human history technological progress caused larger population growth but had no impact on income per capita in the long run.
economic_growth: In politics, green parties embrace the Global Greens Charter, recognising that "...
economic_growth: Beyond Classical and Keynesian Macroeconomic Policy.
economic_growth: In a famous estimate, MIT Professor Robert Solow concluded that technological progress has accounted for 80 percent of the long-term rise in U.S.
economic_growth: Many of these intermediate level institutions relied on informal private-order arrangements that combined with public-order institutions associated with states, to lay the foundations of modern rule of law states.
economic_growth: Its failure to explain the determinants of these rates is one of its limitations.
economic_growth: Bibcode:2011PNAS..10821316G.
economic_growth: "Democracy Does Cause Growth", according to Acemoglu et al.
economic_growth: In the case of minerals, lower grades of mineral resources are being extracted, requiring higher inputs of capital and energy for both extraction and processing.
economic_growth: Although the rate of investment in the model is exogenous, under certain conditions the model implicitly predicts convergence in the rates of investment across countries.
economic_growth: Jones, Charles I.
economic_growth: Productivity increases do not always lead to wage growth, as can be seen in the United States, where the gap between productivity and wages has been rising since the 1980s.
economic_growth: Recessions may occur, causing GDP to fall, along with productivity, causing unemployment to rise.
economic_growth: Instead, the rate of investment and the rate of technological progress are exogenous.
economic_growth: These included new laws favorable to the establishment of business, including contract law, laws providing for the protection of private property, and the abolishment of anti-usury laws.
economic_growth: Up to the present, there is a close correlation between economic growth and the rate of carbon dioxide emissions across nations, although there is also a considerable divergence in carbon intensity (carbon emissions per GDP).
economic_growth: As a consequence, with world technology available to all and progressing at a constant rate, all countries have the same steady state rate of growth.
economic_growth: A study by researchers at the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) of 24 countries that experienced growth found that in 18 cases, poverty was alleviated.
economic_growth: In 1972, The Limits to Growth study modeled limitations to infinite growth; originally ridiculed, some of the predicted trends have materialized, raising concerns of an impending collapse or decline due to resource constraints.
economic_growth: This model was notable for its incorporation of human capital, which is interpreted from changes to investment patterns in education, training, and healthcare by private sector firms or governments.
economic_growth: For instance, in the above table, GDP per person in the United Kingdom in the year 1870 was $4,808.
economic_growth: Romer argued that outcomes to the national growth rates were significantly affected by public policy, trade activity, and intellectual property.
economic_growth: Also, the creation of new services has been more important than invention of new goods.
economic_growth: The modern perspective which has emerged in the late 1980s suggests, in contrast, that income distribution has a significant impact on the growth process.
economic_growth: The Economist Has No Clothes – essay by Robert Nadeau in Scientific American on the basic assumptions behind current economic theory
World Growth Institute.
economic_growth: The value of the model is that it predicts the pattern of economic growth once these two rates are specified.
economic_growth: "Individualism, innovation, and long-run growth".
economic_growth: First, his regression analysis control for education, fertility, investment, and it therefore excludes, by construction, the important effect of inequality on growth via education, fertility, and investment.
economic_growth: In 1957 South Korea had a lower per capita GDP than Ghana, and by 2008 it was 17 times as high as Ghana's.
economic_growth: 7 (2) 190725.
economic_growth: Another example is natural gas from shale and other low permeability rock, whose extraction requires much higher inputs of energy, capital, and materials than conventional gas in previous decades.
economic_growth: A few papers use quasi-experimental designs, and have found that entrepreneurship and the density of small businesses indeed have a causal impact on regional growth.
economic_growth: (See: Interchangeable parts.)
During the Second Industrial Revolution, a major factor of productivity growth was the substitution of inanimate power for human and animal labor.
economic_growth: Protecting health assets from the impact of systemic transitional costs on economic reforms, pandemics, economic crises and natural disasters is also crucial.
economic_growth: Other productivity improvements included mechanized agriculture and scientific agriculture including chemical fertilizers and livestock and poultry management, and the Green Revolution.
economic_growth: productivity growth returned to the low levels of 1972–96.
economic_growth: It can be measured as the increase in the inflation-adjusted output of an economy in a given year or over a period of time.
economic_growth: Updated regularly.
economic_growth: Economic growth has the indirect potential to alleviate poverty, as a result of a simultaneous increase in employment opportunities and increased labor productivity.
economic_growth: Anthropologist Eduardo S.
economic_growth: This system repeatedly failed for the English.
economic_growth: They show that the level of students' cognitive skills can explain the slow growth in Latin America and the rapid growth in East Asia.
economic_growth: It grew to 1,330,088 million pounds by 2008.
economic_growth: As a consequence, growth-oriented environmental economists propose government intervention into switching sources of energy production, favouring wind, solar, hydroelectric, and nuclear.
economic_growth: Energy economic theories hold that rates of energy consumption and energy efficiency are linked causally to economic growth.
economic_growth: PMID 22198759.
economic_growth: McCloskey, Deirdre; Carden, Art (2020).
economic_growth: "Determinants of Economic Growth: A Cross-Country Empirical Study".
economic_growth: In the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon: "While economic growth is necessary, it is not sufficient for progress on reducing poverty."
economic_growth: (1912) The Theory of Economic Development 1982 reprint, Transaction Publishers
Weil, David N.
economic_growth: However, in 2008 the positions were reversed: GDP per person was $36,130 in the United Kingdom and $46,970 in the United States, i.e.
economic_growth: "Cultural prerequisites of socioeconomic development".
economic_growth: Penguin Random House.
economic_growth: education) or technological change (e.g.
economic_growth: Mass production of the 1920s created overproduction, which was arguably one of several causes of the Great Depression of the 1930s.
economic_growth: The Review of Economics and Statistics.
economic_growth: Economic growth is a means and not an end.
economic_growth: Human capital has been included in both neoclassical and endogenous growth models.
economic_growth: The Way It Worked and Why It Won't: Structural Change and the Slowdown of U.S.
economic_growth: Many earlier predictions of resource depletion, such as Thomas Malthus' 1798 predictions about approaching famines in Europe, The Population Bomb, and the Simon–Ehrlich wager (1980) have not materialized.
economic_growth: and other developed countries went through phases that affected growth through changes in the labor force participation rate and the relative sizes of economic sectors.
economic_growth: For instance, with low inequality a country with a growth rate of 2% per head and 40% of its population living in poverty, can halve poverty in ten years, but a country with high inequality would take nearly 60 years to achieve the same reduction.
economic_growth: OECD economic growth statistics
Multinational data sets - easy to use dataset showing GDP, per capita and population, by country and region, 1970 to 2008.
economic_growth: On Memorial Day weekend in 1988, a conference in Buffalo brought together influential thinkers to evaluate the conflicting theories of growth.
economic_growth: Explores the idea of the inevitability of the Industrial Revolution.
economic_growth: Several factors may constrain economic growth – for example: finite, peaked, or depleted resources.
economic_growth: In some cases, substitution of more abundant materials, such as plastics for cast metals, lowered growth of usage for some metals.
economic_growth: doi:10.1257/jel.51.2.325.
economic_growth: Reasons for extra-legal ownership include excessive bureaucratic red tape in buying property and building; failures to notarize transaction documents; or having documents notarized but failing to have them recorded with the official agency.
economic_growth: This showed that the increase in capital and labor stock only accounted for about half of the output, while the population increase adjustments to capital explained eighth.
economic_growth: The relation between GDP growth and GDP across the countries at a particular point of time is convex.
economic_growth: doi:10.1162/REST_a_00599.
economic_growth: Why Does Growth Keep Slowing Down?
economic_growth: Malthusians such as William R.
economic_growth: Increases in labor productivity (the ratio of the value of output to labor input) have historically been the most important source of real per capita economic growth.
economic_growth: Recent papers based on superior data, find negative relationship between inequality and growth.
economic_growth: There exists some extremum value.
economic_growth: Innovation also generates economic growth.
economic_growth: In other words, the empirical analysis of the impact of entrepreneurship on growth is difficult because of the joint determination of entrepreneurship and economic growth.
economic_growth: ISBN 978-0-226-73966-3.
economic_growth: Diminished production of most resources has not occurred so far, one reason being that advancements in technology and science have allowed some previously unavailable resources to be produced.
economic_growth: Nevertheless, the model still had flaws.
economic_growth: They found that this measure of human capital was very significantly related to economic growth.
economic_growth: Further division of labour (specialization) is also fundamental to rising productivity.
economic_growth: per capita GDP from 1889 to 1957 was due to increased productivity.
economic_growth: Later theoretical developments have reinforced the view that inequality has an adverse effect on the growth process.
economic_growth: In particular, Brückner and Lederman test the prediction of the model by in the panel of countries during the period 1970–2010, by considering the impact of the interaction between the level of income inequality and the initial level of GDP per capita.
economic_growth: doi:10.1073/pnas.1101933108.
economic_growth: Demographic factors may influence growth by changing the employment to population ratio and the labor force participation rate.
economic_growth: It is argued that human capital is an important asset for economic growth, but can only be so if a population is healthy and well-nourished.
economic_growth: For example, the United Kingdom experienced a 1.97% average annual increase in its inflation-adjusted GDP between 1830 and 2008.
economic_growth: These testable predictions have been examined and confirmed empirically in recent studies.
economic_growth: "Scientists' warning on affluence".
economic_growth: These include the great improvements in efficiency of conversion of heat to work, the reuse of heat, the reduction in friction and the transmission of power, especially through electrification.
economic_growth: On the other hand, the French experience of state building faced much stronger resistance from local feudal powers keeping it legally and fiscally fragmented until the French Revolution despite significant increases in state capacity during the seventeenth century.
economic_growth: In contrast, Perotti argues that the political economy mechanism is not supported empirically.
economic_growth: This growth rate represents the trend in the average level of GDP over the period, and ignores any fluctuations in the GDP around this trend.
economic_growth: In some instances, quality of life factors such as healthcare outcomes and educational attainment, as well as social and political liberties, do not improve as economic growth occurs.
economic_growth: This measure is widely used because Barro and Lee provide data for numerous countries in five-year intervals for a long period of time.
economic_growth: An organization dedicated to helping the developing world realize its full potential via economic growth.
economic_growth: Ultimately, when people live longer on average, human capital expenditures are more likely to pay off, and all of these mechanisms center around the complementarity of longevity, health, and education, for which there is ample empirical evidence.
economic_growth: Arrow's further explained that new knowledge obtained by firms comes from practice and built a model that "knowledge" accumulated through experience.
economic_growth: (2002) Introduction to Economic Growth 2nd ed.
economic_growth: Specifically, they state that "democracy increases future GDP by encouraging investment, increasing schooling, inducing economic reforms, improving public goods provision, and reducing social unrest".
economic_growth: Wiedmann, Thomas; Lenzen, Manfred; Keyßer, Lorenz T.; Steinberger, Julia K.
economic_growth: The rate of growth is typically calculated as real gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate, real GDP per capita growth rate, GNI per capita growth or median income growth.
economic_growth: PMC 9026903.
economic_growth: The balance of the growth in output has come from using more inputs.
economic_growth: The transition from an agricultural economy to manufacturing increased the size of the sector with high output per hour (the high-productivity manufacturing sector), while reducing the size of the sector with lower output per hour (the lower productivity agricultural sector).
economic_growth: Spolaore, Enrico; Wacziarg, Romain (2013).
economic_growth: They find that inequality is negatively associated with economic growth in a cross-country analysis.
economic_growth: For Smith, the main factors of economic growth are division of labour and capital accumulation.
economic_growth: ISSN 2041-1723.
economic_growth: Mortality decline triggers greater investments in individual human capital and an increase in economic growth.
economic_growth: (2003) The Industrial Revolution: Past and Future, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, Annual Report online edition
Schumpeter, Jospeph A.
economic_growth: As a consequence, capital/worker and output/worker in a global financial capital market should converge to the same level in all countries.
economic_growth: The rule of 72, a mathematical result, states that if something grows at the rate of x% per year, then its level will double every 72/x years.
economic_growth: Following the Great Depression, economic growth resumed, aided in part by increased demand for existing goods and services, such as automobiles, telephones, radios, electricity and household appliances.
economic_growth: Princeton University Press.
economic_growth: However, these are conditioned by what he calls "the extent of the market".
economic_growth: Hanushek and Wößmann further investigate whether the relationship of knowledge capital to economic growth is causal.
economic_growth: This can be seen as an annulment of previous technologies, which makes them obsolete, and "destroys the rents generated by previous innovations".
economic_growth: In the U.S.
economic_growth: There are many different ways through which states achieved state (fiscal) capacity and this different capacity accelerated or hindered their economic development.
economic_growth: Likewise, Dierk Herzer and Sebastian Vollmer find that increased income inequality reduces economic growth.
economic_growth: For example, a growth rate of 2.5% per annum leads to a doubling of the GDP within 28.8 years, whilst a growth rate of 8% per year leads to a doubling of GDP within nine years.
economic_growth: A major model that illustrates Schumpeterian growth is the Aghion–Howitt model.
economic_growth: In 1957, Solow applied his model to data from the U.S.
economic_growth: This is due to endogeneity—forces that drive economic growth also drive entrepreneurship.
economic_growth: Royal Society Open Science.
economic_growth: ISBN 978-0-226-52793-2.
economic_growth: Second, his study analyzes the effect of inequality on the average growth rate in the following 10 years.
economic_growth: A country's level of human capital is difficult to measure since it is created at home, at school, and on the job.
economic_growth: Less is More: How Degrowth Will Save the World.
economic_growth: The public sector has since contracted, while the service economy expanded in the 2000s.
economic_growth: The theory suggests that during most of human existence, technological progress was offset by population growth, and living standards were near subsistence across time and space.
economic_growth: ISBN 978-0-307-71922-5.
economic_growth: The Solow–Swan model is considered an "exogenous" growth model because it does not explain why countries invest different shares of GDP in capital nor why technology improves over time.
economic_growth: Both of these changes increase output.
economic_growth: contributed to economic growth, as did the entrance of the baby boomers into the workforce.
economic_growth: Paul Romer's plain-English explanation of endogenous growth theory.
economic_growth: A growth rate that averaged 1.97% over 178 years resulted in a 32-fold increase in GDP by 2008.
economic_growth: While intellectual property may be important, Baker (2016) cites multiple sources claiming that "stronger patent protection seems to be associated with slower growth".
economic_growth: He shows that economic growth is not correlated with average scores in more educated countries.
economic_growth: Lucas, Robert E., Jr.
economic_growth: Few attempts were also made by the RAND Corporation the non-profit think tank and frequently visiting economist Kenneth Arrow to work out the kinks in the model.
economic_growth: This model assumes that there are diminishing returns to capital and labor.
economic_growth: ...if we can learn about government policy options that have even small effects on long-term growth rates, we can contribute much more to improvements in standards of living than has been provided by the entire history of macroeconomic analysis of countercyclical policy and fine-tuning.
economic_growth: In addition, Andrew Berg and Jonathan Ostry suggest that inequality seems to affect growth through human capital accumulation and fertility channels.
economic_growth: Catton claims that increasing rates of resource extraction are "...stealing ravenously from the future".
economic_growth: McCloskey, Deirdre (2016).
economic_growth: However, real wages rose, allowing workers to improve their diet, buy consumer goods and afford better housing.
economic_growth: Poor countries can become rich by increasing the share of GDP they invest.
economic_growth: Copper ore grades have declined significantly over the last century.
economic_growth: Hickel, Jason (2020).
economic_growth: In the initial phases of industrialization, when physical capital accumulation was the dominating source of economic growth, inequality boosted the development process by directing resources toward individuals with higher propensity to save.
economic_growth: Europeans adopted very different colonization policies in different colonies, with different associated institutions.
economic_growth: Clark, Gregory (2007).
economic_growth: Unsatisfied with the assumption of exogenous technological progress in the Solow–Swan model, economists worked to "endogenize" (i.e., explain it "from within" the models) productivity growth in the 1980s.
economic_growth: Nature, 16 March 2022.
economic_growth: Increases in productivity lower the real cost of goods.
economic_growth: 5 (12): 1608–1621.
economic_growth: There is a strong correlation between per capita electricity consumption and economic development.
economic_growth: The GDP per person data are adjusted for inflation, hence they are "real".
economic_growth: He stressed that cumulative capital and specialization were key, and that not only population growth can increase capital of knowledge, it was human capital that is specifically trained in harvesting new ideas.
economic_growth: Sources
Acemoglu, Daron; Robinson, James A.
economic_growth: The increase in the percentage of women in the labor force in the U.S.
economic_growth: Living standards vary widely from country to country, and furthermore, the change in living standards over time varies widely from country to country.
economic_growth: Most of the economic growth in the 20th century was due to increased output per unit of labor, materials, energy, and land (less input per widget).
economic_growth: There is a reduced demand for child labor and children spend more years in school.
economic_growth: One problem with the schooling attainment measure is that the amount of human capital acquired in a year of schooling is not the same at all levels of schooling and is not the same in all countries.
economic_growth: In contrast, growth in Asia has been strong since then, starting with Japan and spreading to Four Asian Tigers, China, Southeast Asia, the Indian subcontinent and Asia Pacific.
economic_growth: Actually, countries having this property belong to conventional growth domain.
economic_growth: In particular, inequality in the distribution of land ownership provides the landed elite with an incentive to limit the mobility of rural workers by depriving them from education and by blocking the development of the industrial sector.
economic_growth: If productivity increases at a constant rate, output/worker also increases at a related steady-state rate.
economic_growth: Bibcode:2020NatCo..11.3107W.
economic_growth: 99 (3): 402–416.
economic_growth: It is observed for both developed and developing economies.
economic_growth: Nevertheless, it is unlikely that a country will generate institutions that respect property rights and the rule of law without having had first intermediate fiscal and political institutions that create incentives for elites to support them.
economic_growth: 51 (2): 325–369.
economic_growth: According to the theory, while technologically advanced economies over this epoch were characterized by higher population density, their level of income per capita was not different from those among technologically regressed society.
economic_growth: In England, a dramatic increase in the state's fiscal capacity followed the creation of constraints on the crown, but elsewhere in Europe increases in state capacity happened before major rule of law reforms.
economic_growth: The idea was revived and formulated rigorously, in the late 1980s by Kevin Murphy, Andrei Shleifer and Robert Vishny.
economic_growth: There is no point in taking the lead if nobody follows suit.
economic_growth: Countries that industrialized eventually saw their population growth slow down, a phenomenon known as the demographic transition.
economic_growth: are skeptical of technological advances that improve resource availability.
economic_growth: In another example, societies that emerged in colonies without solid native populations established better property rights and incentives for long-term investment than those where native populations were large.
economic_growth: Norton & Company.
economic_growth: The post-World War II economy also benefited from the discovery of vast amounts of oil around the world, particularly in the Middle East.
economic_growth: These concepts have their origins in Thomas Malthus's theorizing about agriculture.
economic_growth: In 2013, French economist Thomas Piketty postulated that in periods when the average annual rate on return on investment in capital (r) exceeds the average annual growth in economic output (g), the rate of inequality will increase.
economic_growth: Research done in this area has focused on what increases human capital (e.g.
economic_growth: about 60% of consumer spending in 2013 went on goods and services that did not exist in 1869.
economic_growth: The paper say that for solving the linked problems of poverty and ecological degradation we need to abandon the growth paradigm and use better methods.
economic_growth: Each country has a different level of GDP/worker determined by the share of GDP it invests, but all countries have the same rate of economic growth.
economic_growth: This would largely confine use of fossil fuels to either domestic cooking needs (such as for kerosene burners) or where carbon capture and storage technology can be cost-effective and reliable.
economic_growth: Unified growth theory was developed by Oded Galor and his co-authors to address the inability of endogenous growth theory to explain key empirical regularities in the growth processes of individual economies and the world economy as a whole.
economic_growth: CEPR Economics Seminar Series Archived 2010-07-11 at the Wayback Machine Two seminars on the importance of growth with economists Dean Baker and Mark Weisbrot
On global economic history by Jan Luiten van Zanden.
economic_growth: In economics, economic growth is an increase in the quantity and quality of the economic goods and services that a society produces.
economic_growth: One of the most important metrics of health is the mortality rate and how its rise or decline can affect the labour supply predominant in a developing economy.
economic_growth: Concerns about negative environmental effects of growth have prompted some people to advocate lower levels of growth, or the abandoning of growth altogether.
economic_growth: Beginning in the 1990s, this flaw has been addressed by adding additional variables to the model that can explain why some countries are less productive than others and, therefore, do not attract flows of global financial capital even though they have less (physical) capital/worker.
economic_growth: In contrast, his examination of the political economy channel found no support for the political economy mechanism.
economic_growth: But at whatever share of GDP invested, capital/worker eventually converges on the steady state, leaving the growth rate of output/worker determined only by the rate of technological progress.
economic_growth: Thus, although other economists focus on the identity or type of legal system of the colonizers to explain institutions, these authors look at the environmental conditions in the colonies to explain institutions.
economic_growth: Thus, a difference in GDP growth by only a few tenths of a percent per year results in large differences in outcomes when the growth is persistent over a generation.
economic_growth: "Prepare developed democracies for long-run economic slowdowns".
economic_growth: UNESCO and the United Nations consider that cultural property protection, high-quality education, cultural diversity and social cohesion in armed conflicts are particularly necessary for qualitative growth.
economic_growth: During the Industrial Revolution, mechanization began to replace hand methods in manufacturing, and new processes streamlined production of chemicals, iron, steel, and other products.
economic_growth: The conceptual foundations of the Malthusian theory were formed by Thomas Malthus, and a modern representation of these approach is provided by Ashraf and Galor.
economic_growth: In areas such as Sub-Saharan Africa, the prevalence of HIV and AIDS has a comparative negative impact on economical development.
economic_growth: If the results of research paid by taxpayers were placed in the public domain, Baker claims that people everywhere would be healthier, because better diagnoses and treatment would be more affordable the world over.
economic_growth: ISBN 978-0-275-96532-7.
economic_growth: Productivity in the United States grew at an increasing rate throughout the 19th century and was most rapid in the early to middle decades of the 20th century.
economic_growth: In Why Nations Fail, Acemoglu and Robinson said that the English in North America started by trying to repeat the success of the Spanish Conquistadors in extracting wealth (especially gold and silver) from the countries they had conquered.
economic_growth: The most commonly used measure of human capital is the level (average years) of school attainment in a country, building upon the data development of Robert Barro and Jong-Wha Lee.
economic_growth: PMC 3271573.
economic_growth: Due to the diminishing returns to capital, with increases in capital/worker and absent technological progress, economic output/worker eventually reaches a point where capital per worker and economic output/worker remain constant because annual investment in capital equals annual depreciation.
economic_growth: Measurement of economic growth uses national income accounting.
economic_growth: Seemingly paradoxically, these are sustained through increases in energy efficiency.
economic_growth: This is conditioned notably by geographic factors but also institutional ones such as the political-legal environment.
economic_growth: doi:10.1038/s41562-021-01229-y.
economic_growth: Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty.
economic_growth: Louis Federal Reserve Bank
Are there limits to economic growth?
economic_growth: Matteo Cervellati, Uwe Sunde and Rodrigo.R Soares have considered frameworks in which mortality decline has an influence on parents to have fewer children and to provide quality education for those children, as a result instituting an economic-demographic transition.
economic_growth: Before industrialization, technological progress resulted in an increase in the population, which was kept in check by food supply and other resources, which acted to limit per capita income, a condition known as the Malthusian trap.
economic_growth: Economic growth, its sustainability and its distribution remain central aspects of government policy.
economic_growth: Growth increases as GDP reaches its maximum and then begins to decline.
economic_growth: (2005) From Stagnation to Growth: Unified Growth Theory.
economic_growth: The work week declined considerably over the 19th century.
economic_growth: productivity growth spiked towards the end of the century in 1996–2004, due to an acceleration in the rate of technological innovation known as Moore's law.
economic_growth: Eric Hanushek and Ludger Wößmann have extended this analysis.
economic_growth: These factors affect the capital and operating cost of extracting resources.
economic_growth: The effect of economic growth on poverty reduction – the growth elasticity of poverty – can depend on the existing level of inequality.
economic_growth: How Ideas, Not Capital or Institutions, Enriched the World.
economic_growth: Resource quality is composed of a variety of factors including ore grades, location, altitude above or below sea level, proximity to railroads, highways, water supply and climate.
economic_growth: Robert Barro reexamined the reduced form relationship between inequality on economic growth in a panel of countries.
economic_growth: Economists refer to economic growth caused by more efficient use of inputs (increased productivity of labor, of physical capital, of energy or of materials) as intensive growth.
economic_growth: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
economic_growth: Kendrick's estimate, three-quarters of increase in U.S.
economic_growth: After 2004 U.S.
economic_growth: His findings simply imply that inequality has no direct effect on growth beyond the important indirect effects through the main channels proposed in the literature.
economic_growth: New products create demand, which is necessary to offset the decline in employment that occurs through labor-saving technology (and to a lesser extent employment declines due to savings in energy and materials).
economic_growth: By the late 19th century both prices and weekly work hours fell because less labor, materials, and energy were required to produce and transport goods.
economic_growth: Since historically financial capital has not flowed to the countries with less capital/worker, the basic Solow–Swan model has a conceptual flaw.
economic_growth: PMID 34795424.
economic_growth: However, existing theories suggest that the effect of inequality will be observed much later, as is the case in human capital formation, for instance.
economic_growth: Below is a table which shows GDP per person and annualized per person GDP growth for a selection of countries over a period of about 100 years.
economic_growth: was 49 hours, but the work week was reduced to 40 hours (after which overtime premium was applied) as part of the National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933.
economic_growth: We would require 1.6 Earths to maintain the world's current living standards." He says that major transformative changes will be needed "akin to, or even greater than, those of the Marshall Plan," including abandoning GDP as a measure of economic success and societal progress.
economic_growth: Journal of Economic Literature.
economic_growth: The Stern Review, published by the United Kingdom Government in 2006, concluded that an investment of 1% of GDP (later changed to 2%) would be sufficient to avoid the worst effects of climate change, and that failure to do so could risk climate-related costs equal to 20% of GDP.
economic_growth: Amongst many papers that day the one that stood out was Romer's "Micro Foundations for Aggregate Technological Change." The Micro Foundation claimed that endogenous technological change had the concept of Intellectual Property imbedded and that knowledge is an input and output of production.
economic_growth: In Virginia it took twelve years and many deaths from starvation before the governor decided to try democracy.
economic_growth: Moreover, the proposed human capital mechanism that mediates the effect of inequality on growth in the Galor-Zeira model is also confirmed.
economic_growth: However, in order to avoid the migration of energy-intensive industries, the whole world should impose such a tax, not just Britain, Lawson pointed out.
economic_growth: gross national product to estimate contributions.
economic_growth: Thanks to the underlying homogeneity of its land and people, England was able to achieve a unified legal and fiscal system since the Middle Ages that enabled it to substantially increase the taxes it raised after 1689.
economic_growth: This condition is called the 'steady state'.
economic_growth: Ruck, Damian J.; Bentley, R.
economic_growth: A Farewell to Alms: A Brief Economic History of the World.
economic_growth: Economic growth in the United States slowed down after 1973.
economic_growth: Also there was a great increase in power as steam-powered electricity generation and internal combustion supplanted limited wind and water power.
economic_growth: The modern perspective, originated by Galor and Zeira, highlights the important role of heterogeneity in the determination of aggregate economic activity, and economic growth.
economic_growth: The argument, as posited by commentator Julian Lincoln Simon, stated in 1981 that if these global-scale ecological effects exist, human ingenuity will find ways to adapt to them.
economic_growth: Handbook of Economic Growth, Elsevier.
economic_growth: Interchangeable parts made with machine tools powered by electric motors evolved into mass production, which is universally used today.
economic_growth: Machine tools made the economical production of metal parts possible, so that parts could be interchangeable.
economic_growth: Capital accumulates through investment, but its level or stock continually decreases due to depreciation.
economic_growth: Instead, he favours carbon taxes to make full use of the efficiency of the market.
economic_growth: The building of highway infrastructures also contributed to post-World War II growth, as did capital investments in manufacturing and chemical industries.
economic_growth: According to Piketty, this is the case because wealth that is already held or inherited, which is expected to grow at the rate r, will grow at a rate faster than wealth accumulated through labor, which is more closely tied to g.
economic_growth: Nature Communications.
economic_growth: In many urban areas the poor "invade" private or government land to build their houses, so they do not hold title to these properties.
economic_growth: Businesses and individuals participating in unreported business activity and owners of unregistered property face costs such as bribes and pay-offs that offset much of any taxes avoided.
economic_growth: This results in an upside-down-U-shaped curve, where the vertex of the curve represents the level of growth that should be targeted.
economic_growth: Women with fewer children and better access to market employment tend to join the labor force in higher percentages.
economic_growth: This recent support for the predictions of the Galor-Zeira model is in line with earlier findings.
economic_growth: The Japanese economic growth has slackened considerably since the late 1980s.
economic_growth: The large impact of a relatively small growth rate over a long period of time is due to the power of exponential growth.
economic_growth: In the development of economic theory, the distribution of income was considered to be between labor and the owners of land and capital.
economic_growth: S2CID 2562715.
economic_growth: The service and government sectors, where output per hour and productivity growth is low, saw increases in their shares of the economy and employment during the 1990s.
economic_growth: 17 November 2007.
economic_growth: It gave no room for policy to influence the growth rate.
economic_growth: Kuznets, Simon (1947).
economic_growth: But at that point – called the threshold point – further economic growth can bring with it a deterioration in quality of life.
economic_growth: That's particularly true for patents in the ethical health care industry.
economic_growth: By the 1920s the average work week in the U.S.
economic_growth: ISBN 978-1-78515-249-8.
economic_growth: Catton, Jr.
economic_growth: Up to a point increases in the amount of capital per worker are an important cause of economic output growth.
economic_growth: Happiness has been shown to increase with GDP per capita, at least up to a level of $15,000 per person.
economic_growth: This remaining unaccounted growth output is known as the Solow Residual.
economic_growth: Theodore Breton shows that the correlation between economic growth and students' average test scores in Hanushek and Wößmann's analyses is actually due to the relationship in countries with less than eight years of schooling.
economic_growth: Increases in energy efficiency were a portion of the increase in Total factor productivity.
economic_growth: "The rate of change of GDP/population is the sum of the rates of change of these four variables plus their cross products."
Short-term economic changes happen around long-term changes, though they are unpredictable.
economic_growth: Economic growth in the U.S.
economic_growth: Gorodnichenko, Yuriy; Roland, Gerard (2011).
economic_growth: New goods and services included television, air conditioning and commercial aviation (after 1950), creating enough new demand to stabilize the work week.
economic_growth: The increased output included more of the same goods produced previously and new goods and services.
economic_growth: This unified theory of inequality and growth, developed by Oded Galor and Omer Moav, suggests that the effect of inequality on the growth process has been reversed as human capital has replaced physical capital as the main engine of economic growth.
economic_growth: doi:10.1098/rsos.190725.
economic_growth: Princeton economist Roland Benabou's finds that the growth process of Korea and the Philippines "are broadly consistent with the credit-constrained human-capital accumulation hypothesis".
economic_growth: Capital is subject to diminishing returns because of the amount that can be effectively invested and because of the growing burden of depreciation.
economic_growth: The prevailing views about the role of inequality in the growth process has radically shifted in the past century.
economic_growth: Increases in income inequality increase human capital in poor countries but reduce it in high and middle-income countries.
economic_growth: As a consequence, growth in the model can occur either by increasing the share of GDP invested or through technological progress.
economic_growth: Bourgeois Equality.
economic_growth: In these 'neo-Europes' better institutions in turn produced better development outcomes.
economic_growth: Growth is usually calculated in "real" value, which is inflation-adjusted, to eliminate the distorting effect of inflation on the prices of goods produced.
economic_growth: In 1830, the GDP was 41,373 million pounds.
economic_growth: by 2013 about 60% of consumer spending was for goods and services that did not exist in 1869.
economic_growth: The "rate" of economic growth refers to the geometric annual rate of growth in GDP or GDP per capita between the first and the last year over a period of time.
economic_growth: The relationship between health and economic growth is further nuanced by distinguishing the influence of specific diseases on GDP per capita from that of aggregate measures of health, such as life expectancy.
economic_growth: It follows that economic growth, as represented by GDP growth, requires higher rates of energy consumption growth.
economic_growth: PMID 32561753.
economic_growth: Westport, CT; London: Praeger.
economic_growth: One theory that relates economic growth with quality of life is the "Threshold Hypothesis", which states that economic growth up to a point brings with it an increase in quality of life.
