emotion: Jaak Panksepp carved out seven biologically inherited primary affective systems called SEEKING (expectancy), FEAR (anxiety), RAGE (anger), LUST (sexual excitement), CARE (nurturance), PANIC/GRIEF (sadness), and PLAY (social joy).
emotion: In sociology, emotions are examined for the role they play in human society, social patterns and interactions, and culture.
emotion: Subjects were observed to express either anger or amusement depending on whether another person in the situation (a confederate) displayed that emotion.
emotion: Support for the action tendency model (passivity related to right prefrontal activity) comes from research on shyness and research on behavioral inhibition.
emotion: In that work Darwin argued that emotional expressions have evolutionary origins and can serve adaptive and communicative functions.
emotion: The four humors theory made popular by Hippocrates contributed to the study of emotion in the same way that it did for medicine.
emotion: He explained how the heightened state of emotional energy achieved during totemic rituals transported individuals above themselves giving them the sense that they were in the presence of a higher power, a force, that was embedded in the sacred objects that were worshipped.
emotion: "No one felt emotions before about 1830.
emotion: In practical terms, Joseph LeDoux has defined emotions as the result of a cognitive and conscious process which occurs in response to a body system response to a trigger.
emotion: "Theories of Emotion".
emotion: The numerous attempts to explain the origin, function, and other aspects of emotions have fostered intense research on this topic.
emotion: They also found evidence for boredom, confusion, interest, pride, and shame facial expressions, as well as contempt, relief, and triumph vocal expressions.
emotion: Retzinger (1991) conducted studies of married couples who experienced cycles of rage and shame.
emotion: OCLC 429049174.
emotion: Later thinkers would propose that actions and emotions are deeply interrelated with social, political, historical, and cultural aspects of reality that would also come to be associated with sophisticated neurological and physiological research on the brain and other parts of the physical body.
emotion: In the 2000s, research in computer science, engineering, psychology and neuroscience has been aimed at developing devices that recognize human affect display and model emotions.
emotion: For example, an irritable person is generally disposed to feel irritation more easily or quickly than others do.
emotion: James was an American psychologist and philosopher who wrote about educational psychology, psychology of religious experience/mysticism, and the philosophy of pragmatism.
emotion: Expectations attached to social roles, such as "acting as man" and not as a woman, and the accompanying "feeling rules" contribute to the differences in expression of certain emotions.
emotion: Moods: enduring affective states that are considered less intense than emotions and appear to lack a contextual stimulus.
emotion: Historians of emotion trace and analyze the changing norms and rules of feeling, while examining emotional regimes, codes, and lexicons from social, cultural, or political history perspectives.
emotion: The James–Lange theory has remained influential.
emotion: At one time, academics attempted to identify the emotion with one of the components: William James with a subjective experience, behaviorists with instrumental behavior, psychophysiologists with physiological changes, and so on.
emotion: The different components of emotion are categorized somewhat differently depending on the academic discipline.
emotion: Aristotle believed that emotions were an essential component of virtue.
emotion: Important neurological advances were derived from these perspectives in the 1990s by Joseph E.
emotion: Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
emotion: The Danish psychologist Carl Lange also proposed a similar theory at around the same time, and therefore this theory became known as the James–Lange theory.
emotion: In the 1990s, sociologists focused on different aspects of specific emotions and how these emotions were socially relevant.
emotion: In some uses of the word, emotions are intense feelings that are directed at someone or something.
emotion: Walter Bradford Cannon agreed that physiological responses played a crucial role in emotions, but did not believe that physiological responses alone could explain subjective emotional experiences.
emotion: A focus on emotions in organizations can be credited to Arlie Russell Hochschild's concept of emotional labor.
emotion: Core affect is not theorized to be the only component to emotion, but to give the emotion its hedonic and felt energy.
emotion: Although mostly abandoned in its original form, Tim Dalgleish argues that most contemporary neuroscientists have embraced the components of the James-Lange theory of emotions.
emotion: This suggests that everything that separates us from chimpanzees must be encoded in that very small amount of DNA, including our behaviors .
emotion: Speech, language, and social organization are all part of the basis for emotions.
emotion: For example, the emotion of love is proposed to be the expression of complex neural networks of the mammalian brain, involving the ventral tegmental area, thalamus, substantia nigra, putamen, caudate nucleus, and anterior cingulate cortex.
emotion: Depending on the particular school's general emphasis on either cognitive components of emotion, physical energy discharging, or on symbolic movement and facial expression components of emotion different schools of psychotherapy approach the regulation of emotion differently.
emotion: More recent research has shown that some of these limbic structures are not as directly related to emotion as others are while some non-limbic structures have been found to be of greater emotional relevance.
emotion: Ekman's facial-expression research examined six basic emotions: anger, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness and surprise.
emotion: These characteristics are shared with other species and taxa and are due to the effects of genes and their continuous transmission.
emotion: Griffiths and Andrea Scarantino, emphasizes the importance of external factors in the development and communication of emotion, drawing upon the situationism approach in psychology.
emotion: Cacioppo, Antonio Damasio, Joseph E.
emotion: A prominent philosophical exponent is Robert C.
emotion: He has put forward a more nuanced view which responds to what he has called the 'standard objection' to cognitivism, the idea that a judgment that something is fearsome can occur with or without emotion, so judgment cannot be identified with emotion.
emotion: In neuroscience sub-fields such as social neuroscience and affective neuroscience, scientists study the neural mechanisms of emotion by combining neuroscience with the psychological study of personality, emotion, and mood.
emotion: There are two constituents of a primordial emotion – the specific sensation which when severe may be imperious, and the compelling intention for gratification by a consummatory act".
emotion: Several research centers have opened in the past few years in Germany, England, Spain, Sweden, and Australia.
emotion: OCLC 37741658.
emotion: The brain then quickly scans the area, to explain the pounding, and notices the bear.
emotion: Information that is encoded in the DNA sequences provides the blueprint for assembling proteins that make up our cells.
emotion: If attractive stimuli can selectively activate a region of the brain, then logically the converse should hold, that selective activation of that region of the brain should cause a stimulus to be judged more positively.
emotion: Stanley Schachter formulated his theory on the earlier work of a Spanish physician, Gregorio Marañón, who injected patients with epinephrine and subsequently asked them how they felt.
emotion: This was demonstrated for moderately attractive visual stimuli and replicated and extended to include negative stimuli.
emotion: For Cooley (1992), pride and shame were the most important emotions that drive people to take various social actions.
emotion: Arlie Russell Hochschild (born 1940) – American sociologist whose central contribution was in forging a link between the subcutaneous flow of emotion in social life and the larger trends set loose by modern capitalism within organizations
Joseph E.
emotion: They emerge as a combination of the physical properties of your body, a flexible brain that wires itself to whatever environment it develops in, and your culture and upbringing, which provide that environment".
emotion: MacLean claims that emotion competes with even more instinctive responses, on one hand, and the more abstract reasoning, on the other hand.
emotion: Detecting emotional information begins with passive sensors which capture data about the user's physical state or behavior without interpreting the input.
emotion: Feelings: the subjective experience of emotional state once it has occurred.
emotion: With these lines, Hume attempted to explain that reason and further action would be subject to the desires and experience of the self.
emotion: The first modern version of such theories came from William James in the 1880s.
emotion: During the Middle Ages, the Aristotelian view was adopted and further developed by scholasticism and Thomas Aquinas in particular.
emotion: Emotion is an essential part of any human decision-making and planning, and the famous distinction made between reason and emotion is not as clear as it seems.
emotion: LeDoux and Antonio Damasio.
emotion: Nursing studies emotions as part of its approach to the provision of holistic health care to humans.
emotion: Arnold (1903–2002), an American psychologist who developed the appraisal theory of emotions; Richard Lazarus (1922–2002), an American psychologist who specialized in emotion and stress, especially in relation to cognition; Herbert A.
emotion: Research on emotion has increased over the past two decades, with many fields contributing, including psychology, medicine, history, sociology of emotions, computer science and philosophy.
emotion: In contrast, a situationist perspective on emotion views emotion as the product of an organism investigating its environment, and observing the responses of other organisms.
emotion: Emotional energy is considered to be a feeling of confidence to take action and a boldness that one experiences when they are charged up from the collective effervescence generated during group gatherings that reach high levels of intensity.
emotion: Emotions, then, are feelings which come about as a result of these physiological changes, rather than being their cause.
emotion: These more elaborate emotions are called first-order elaborations in Turner's theory, and they include sentiments such as pride, triumph, and awe.
emotion: LeDoux (born 1949) – American neuroscientist who studies the biological underpinnings of memory and emotion, especially the mechanisms of fear
Jesse Prinz – American philosopher who specializes in emotion, moral psychology, aesthetics and consciousness
James A.
emotion: It is an interdisciplinary field spanning computer sciences, psychology, and cognitive science.
emotion: The mammalian brain invested heavily in olfaction to succeed at night as reptiles slept – one explanation for why olfactory lobes in mammalian brains are proportionally larger than in the reptiles.
emotion: In his theory, James proposed that the perception of what he called an "exciting fact" directly led to a physiological response, known as "emotion".
emotion: On the other hand, emotion can be used to refer to states that are mild (as in annoyed or content) and to states that are not directed at anything (as in anxiety and depression).
emotion: In some contexts, the expression of emotion (both voluntary and involuntary) could be seen as strategic moves in the transactions between different organisms.
emotion: Joseph LeDoux differentiates between the human's defense system, which has evolved over time, and emotions such as fear and anxiety.
emotion: In the Age of Enlightenment, Scottish thinker David Hume proposed a revolutionary argument that sought to explain the main motivators of human action and conduct.
emotion: Relationships exist between basic emotions, resulting in positive or negative influences.
emotion: Sociological attention to emotion has varied over time.
emotion: Solomon claims that emotions are judgments.
emotion: Some social institutions are seen as based on certain emotion, such as love in the case of contemporary institution of marriage.
emotion: More recently, emotion has been said to consist of all the components.
emotion: Emotional memories are reactivated more, they are remembered better and have more attention devoted to them.
emotion: Its main contribution is the emphasis it places on the embodiment of emotions, especially the argument that changes in the bodily concomitants of emotions can alter their experienced intensity.
emotion: Alternatively, there are 'good emotions' (like joy and caution) experienced by those that are wise, which come from correct appraisals of what is 'good' and 'bad'.
emotion: Many of these different approaches were synthesized by Turner (2007) in his sociological theory of human emotions in an attempt to produce one comprehensive sociological account that draws on developments from many of the above traditions.
emotion: This two-dimensional map has been theorized to capture one important component of emotion called core affect.
emotion: Lange was a Danish physician and psychologist.
emotion: The term emotion was introduced into academic discussion as a catch-all term to passions, sentiments and affections.
emotion: The list was established in January 1997 and has over 700 members from across the globe.
emotion: Research that tested the competing hypotheses generated by all four models also supported the action tendency model.
emotion: The affect theory introduced the concept of basic emotions, and was based on the idea that the dominance of the emotion, which he called the affected system, was the motivating force in human life.
emotion: Emotions were thus a result of two-stage process: general physiological arousal, and experience of emotion.
emotion: For example, the physiological arousal, heart pounding, in a response to an evoking stimulus, the sight of a bear in the kitchen.
emotion: Cognitive appraisal: provides an evaluation of events and objects.
emotion: Social sciences often examine emotion for the role that it plays in human culture and social interactions.
emotion: For example, Peggy Thoits described emotions as involving physiological components, cultural or emotional labels (anger, surprise, etc.), expressive body actions, and the appraisal of situations and contexts.
emotion: Depending on these reactions, we either experience pride or shame and this results in particular paths of action.
emotion: Influential theorists who are still active include the following psychologists, neurologists, philosophers, and sociologists:
emotion: Darwin interpreted these similarities as evidence that emotional expression had been shaped by evolutionary processes such as natural selection.
emotion: The direction model predicted that anger, an approach emotion, would activate the left prefrontal cortex.
emotion: While the origins of the field may be traced as far back as to early philosophical enquiries into emotion, the more modern branch of computer science originated with Rosalind Picard's 1995 paper on affective computing.
emotion: Such methods attempt to boil emotions down to underlying dimensions that capture the similarities and differences between experiences.
emotion: Emotions can also be experienced at different levels of intensity so that feelings of concern are a low-intensity variation of the primary emotion aversion-fear whereas depression is a higher intensity variant.
emotion: Bodily symptoms: the physiological component of emotional experience.
emotion: He proposed that actions are motivated by "fears, desires, and passions".
emotion: Later in his career, Ekman theorized that other universal emotions may exist beyond these six.
emotion: This is important because emotions are related to the anti-stress complex, with an oxytocin-attachment system, which plays a major role in bonding.
emotion: The theory states that within human beings, as a response to experiences in the world, the autonomic nervous system creates physiological events such as muscular tension, a rise in heart rate, perspiration, and dryness of the mouth.
emotion: Lisa Feldman Barrett highlights differences in emotions between different cultures, and says that emotions (such as anxiety) are socially constructed (see theory of constructed emotion).
emotion: In psychiatry and psychology, an inability to express or perceive emotion is sometimes referred to as alexithymia.
emotion: These studies show that learning subjects like science can be understood in terms of classroom interaction rituals that generate emotional energy and collective states of emotional arousal like emotional climate.
emotion: In philosophy, emotions are studied in sub-fields such as ethics, the philosophy of art (for example, sensory–emotional values, and matters of taste and sentimentality), and the philosophy of music (see also music and emotion).
emotion: Apart from interaction ritual traditions of the sociology of emotion, other approaches have been classed into one of six other categories:
emotion: In his 1884 article William James argued that feelings and emotions were secondary to physiological phenomena.
emotion: Solomon (for example, The Passions, Emotions and the Meaning of Life, 1993).
emotion: In Buddhism, emotions occur when an object is considered attractive or repulsive.
emotion: Emotions can be occurrences (e.g., panic) or dispositions (e.g., hostility), and short-lived (e.g., anger) or long-lived (e.g., grief).
emotion: Emotional phenotype temperaments affect social connectedness and fitness in complex social systems.
emotion: The University of Queensland hosts EmoNet, an e-mail distribution list representing a network of academics that facilitates scholarly discussion of all matters relating to the study of emotion in organizational settings.
emotion: Emotion is also studied in non-human animals in ethology, a branch of zoology which focuses on the scientific study of animal behavior.
emotion: Zalta, Edward N.
emotion: Another potential example with behavioral differences is the FOXP2 gene, which is involved in neural circuitry handling speech and language.
emotion: New York: D.
emotion: Emotion stimulates the evolution of social relationships, acting as a signal to mediate the behavior of other organisms.
emotion: Two of the key eliciting factors for the arousal of emotions within this theory are expectations states and sanctions.
emotion: Finally, some theorists place emotions within a more general category of "affective states" where affective states can also include emotion-related phenomena such as pleasure and pain, motivational states (for example, hunger or curiosity), moods, dispositions and traits.
emotion: Theorizing about the evolutionary origin and possible purpose of emotion dates back to Charles Darwin.
emotion: In light of this, recent cross-cultural studies led by Daniel Cordaro and Dacher Keltner, both former students of Ekman, extended the list of universal emotions.
emotion: The theory of rasas still forms the aesthetic underpinning of all Indian classical dance and theatre, such as Bharatanatyam, kathak, Kuchipudi, Odissi, Manipuri, Kudiyattam, Kathakali and others.
emotion: The history of emotions has become an increasingly popular topic recently, with some scholars arguing that it is an essential category of analysis, not unlike class, race, or gender.
emotion: He also believed that the richness, variety, and temporal course of emotional experiences could not stem from physiological reactions, that reflected fairly undifferentiated fight or flight responses.
emotion: She says that they "are not triggered; you create them.
emotion: Psychology examines emotions from a scientific perspective by treating them as mental processes and behavior and they explore the underlying physiological and neurological processes, e.g., cognitive behavioral therapy.
emotion: For more than 40 years, Paul Ekman has supported the view that emotions are discrete, measurable, and physiologically distinct.
emotion: About Emotions
W.
emotion: Emotional dispositions are also comparable to character traits, where someone may be said to be generally disposed to experience certain emotions.
emotion: The complex emotions could arise from cultural conditioning or association combined with the basic emotions.
emotion: An example of this theory in action would be as follows: An emotion-evoking stimulus (snake) triggers a pattern of physiological response (increased heart rate, faster breathing, etc.), which is interpreted as a particular emotion (fear).
emotion: In anthropology, the study of humanity, scholars use ethnography to undertake contextual analyzes and cross-cultural comparisons of a range of human activities.
emotion: Cannon (1915).
emotion: Thus fear might range from mild concern to terror or shame might range from simple embarrassment to toxic shame.
emotion: Griffiths and Scarantino suggested that this perspective on emotion could be helpful in understanding phobias, as well as the emotions of infants and animals.
emotion: Therefore, it can referred the amygdala as a key structure to understand the potential responses of behavior in danger like situations in human and non-human mammals.
emotion: Some anthropology studies examine the role of emotions in human activities.
emotion: Zygotes require genetic information from their parental germ cells, and at every speciation event, heritable traits that have enabled its ancestor to survive and reproduce successfully are passed down along with new traits that could be potentially beneficial to the offspring.
emotion: In voles (Microtus spp.) minor genetic differences have been identified in a vasopressin receptor gene that corresponds to major species differences in social organization and the mating system.
emotion: Emotion can be differentiated from a number of similar constructs within the field of affective neuroscience:
emotion: Two neurobiological models of emotion in the prefrontal cortex made opposing predictions.
emotion: Appleton and Company
emotion: Ekman's most influential work revolved around the finding that certain emotions appeared to be universally recognized, even in cultures that were preliterate and could not have learned associations for facial expressions through media.
emotion: These theories acknowledge that emotions are not automatic reactions but result from the interplay of cognitive interpretations, physiological responses, and the social context.
emotion: Derek Denton calls the latter "primordial emotions" and defines them as "the subjective element of the instincts, which are the genetically programmed behavior patterns which contrive homeostasis.
emotion: Consequently, the brain interprets the pounding heart as being the result of fearing the bear.
emotion: One line of research looks at the meaning of the word emotion in everyday language and finds that this usage is rather different from that in academic discourse.
emotion: She has termed this approach the theory of constructed emotion.
emotion: This still left open the question of whether the opposite of approach in the prefrontal cortex is better described as moving away (direction model), as unmoving but with strength and resistance (movement model), or as unmoving with passive yielding (action tendency model).
emotion: Émile Durkheim (1915/1965) wrote about the collective effervescence or emotional energy that was experienced by members of totemic rituals in Australian Aboriginal society.
emotion: What somebody can and may feel (and show) in a given situation, towards certain people or things, depends on social norms and rules; thus historically variable and open to change.
emotion: Another area within affective computing is the design of computational devices proposed to exhibit either innate emotional capabilities or that are capable of convincingly simulating emotions.
emotion: Emotions have been categorized, with some relationships existing between emotions and some direct opposites existing.
emotion: In the field of communication studies, critical organizational scholars have examined the role of emotions in organizations, from the perspectives of managers, employees, and even customers.
emotion: In linguistics, the expression of emotion may change to the meaning of sounds.
emotion: These biological functions of the amygdala are not only limited to the "fear-conditioning" and "processing of aversive stimuli", but also are present on other components of the amygdala.
emotion: Pioneering work by Paul Broca (1878), James Papez (1937), and Paul D.
emotion: In psychiatry, emotions are examined as part of the discipline's study and treatment of mental disorders in humans.
emotion: In computer science, affective computing is a branch of the study and development of artificial intelligence that deals with the design of systems and devices that can recognize, interpret, and process human emotions.
emotion: Phillip Bard contributed to the theory with his work on animals.
emotion: Fieser, James; Dowden, Bradley (eds.).
emotion: Subsequent to these developments, Randall Collins (2004) formulated his interaction ritual theory by drawing on Durkheim's work on totemic rituals that was extended by Goffman (1964/2013; 1967) into everyday focused encounters.
emotion: LeDoux and Robert Zajonc who are able to appeal to neurological evidence.
emotion: Based on this analysis, he identified four emotions that all researchers consider being founded on human neurology including assertive-anger, aversion-fear, satisfaction-happiness, and disappointment-sadness.
emotion: In advertising, such as health campaigns and political messages, emotional appeals are commonly found.
emotion: Far more extensively, this has also been of great interest to both Western and Eastern societies.
emotion: These two dimensions can be depicted on a 2D coordinate map.
emotion: These four categories are called primary emotions and there is some agreement amongst researchers that these primary emotions become combined to produce more elaborate and complex emotional experiences.
emotion: Psychologists have used methods such as factor analysis to attempt to map emotion-related responses onto a more limited number of dimensions.
emotion: Some of the most influential deceased theorists on emotion from the 20th century include Magda B.
emotion: In economics, the social science that studies the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services, emotions are analyzed in some sub-fields of microeconomics, in order to assess the role of emotions on purchase decision-making and risk perception.
emotion: ISSN 1095-5054.
emotion: Others focus on the history of medicine, science, or psychology.
emotion: Cognitively oriented schools approach them via their cognitive components, such as rational emotive behavior therapy.
emotion: In the five million years since the lineages leading to modern humans and chimpanzees split, only about 1.2% of their genetic material has been modified.
emotion: Emotions are thought to be related to certain activities in brain areas that direct our attention, motivate our behavior, and determine the significance of what is going on around us.
emotion: To account for different types of emotional experiences, James proposed that stimuli trigger activity in the autonomic nervous system, which in turn produces an emotional experience in the brain.
emotion: Cognitive processes, like reasoning and decision-making, are often regarded as separate from emotional processes, making a division between "thinking" and "feeling".
emotion: In Stoic theories, normal emotions (like delight and fear) are described as irrational impulses that come from incorrect appraisals of what is 'good' or 'bad'.
emotion: In the early 11th century, Avicenna theorized about the influence of emotions on health and behaviors, suggesting the need to manage emotions.
emotion: He pioneered the systematic study of nonverbal behaviour, concluding that expressions are universal across human cultures and that homologous forms of emotional expression occur in other animals.
emotion: The issue with the James–Lange theory is that of causation (bodily states causing emotions and being a priori), not that of the bodily influences on emotional experience (which can be argued and is still quite prevalent today in biofeedback studies and embodiment theory).
emotion: In addition to the original six, these studies provided evidence for amusement, awe, contentment, desire, embarrassment, pain, relief, and sympathy in both facial and vocal expressions.
emotion: However, not all theories of emotion regard this separation as valid.
emotion: Research on physiological emotion has caused modern neuroscience to abandon the model of emotions and rationality as opposing forces.
emotion: In contrast to the ancient Greek ideal of dispassionate reason, the neuroscience of emotion shows that emotion is necessarily integrated with intellect.
emotion: Action tendencies: a motivational component for the preparation and direction of motor responses.
emotion: Shame and pride can motivate behaviors that help one maintain one's standing in a community, and self-esteem is one's estimate of one's status.
emotion: Graham differentiates emotions as functional or dysfunctional and argues all functional emotions have benefits.
emotion: Although defensive behaviors have been present in a wide variety of species, Blanchard et al.
emotion: A similar multi-componential description of emotion is found in sociology.
emotion: In the Aristotelian view all emotions (called passions) corresponded to appetites or capacities.
emotion: With the arrival of night-active mammals, smell replaced vision as the dominant sense, and a different way of responding arose from the olfactory sense, which is proposed to have developed into mammalian emotion and emotional memory.
emotion: ISSN 2161-0002.
emotion: He has said that the amygdala may release hormones due to a trigger (such as an innate reaction to seeing a snake), but "then we elaborate it through cognitive and conscious processes".
emotion: Marañón found that most of these patients felt something but in the absence of an actual emotion-evoking stimulus, the patients were unable to interpret their physiological arousal as an experienced emotion.
emotion: Thus, giving the amygdala an important role in coordinating the following behavioral input based on the presented neurotransmitters that respond to threat stimuli.
emotion: The detection and processing of facial expression or body gestures is achieved through detectors and sensors.
emotion: During every encounter, he proposed that we monitor ourselves through the "looking glass" that the gestures and reactions of others provide.
emotion: Research on social emotion also focuses on the physical displays of emotion including body language of animals and humans (see affect display).
emotion: Graham describes all emotions as existing on a continuum of intensity.
emotion: Emotions can likely be mediated by pheromones (see fear).
emotion: In psychology and philosophy, emotion typically includes a subjective, conscious experience characterized primarily by psychophysiological expressions, biological reactions, and mental states.
emotion: MacLean (1952) suggested that emotion is related to a group of structures in the center of the brain called the limbic system, which includes the hypothalamus, cingulate cortex, hippocampi, and other structures.
emotion: Emotions are often intertwined with mood, temperament, personality, disposition, or creativity.
emotion: This experiment has been criticized in Jesse Prinz's (2004) Gut Reactions.
emotion: (2001) discovered a correlation of given stimuli and situation that resulted in a similar pattern of defensive behavior towards a threat in human and non-human mammals.
emotion: The data gathered is analogous to the cues humans use to perceive emotions in others.
emotion: In history, scholars examine documents and other sources to interpret and analyze past activities; speculation on the emotional state of the authors of historical documents is one of the tools of interpretation.
emotion: Emotional states have been associated with the divine and with the enlightenment of the human mind and body.
emotion: Emotions: predispositions to a certain type of action in response to a specific stimulus, which produce a cascade of rapid and synchronized physiological and cognitive changes.
emotion: He argued that physiological responses were too slow and often imperceptible and this could not account for the relatively rapid and intense subjective awareness of emotion.
emotion: He suggested that physiological reactions contributed to emotional experience by facilitating a focused cognitive appraisal of a given physiologically arousing event and that this appraisal was what defined the subjective emotional experience.
emotion: There is a felt tendency impelling people towards attractive objects and propelling them to move away from repulsive or harmful objects; a disposition to possess the object (greed), to destroy it (hatred), to flee from it (fear), to get obsessed or worried over it (anxiety), and so on.
emotion: The formation or disruption of social bonds is dependent on the emotions that people experience during interactions.
emotion: In education, the role of emotions in relation to learning is examined.
emotion: In criminology, a social science approach to the study of crime, scholars often draw on behavioral sciences, sociology, and psychology; emotions are examined in criminology issues such as anomie theory and studies of "toughness", aggressive behavior, and hooliganism.
emotion: One comprehensive theory of emotional arousal in humans has been developed by Jonathan Turner (2007: 2009).
emotion: Based on interaction ritual theory, we experience different levels or intensities of emotional energy during face-to-face interactions.
emotion: Alternatively, similar to the way primary colors combine, primary emotions could blend to form the full spectrum of human emotional experience.
emotion: Furthermore, research in historical trauma suggests that some traumatic emotions can be passed on from parents to offspring to second and even third generation, presented as examples of transgenerational trauma.
emotion: Therefore, Cannon also argued that it was not anatomically possible for sensory events to trigger a physiological response prior to triggering conscious awareness and emotional stimuli had to trigger both physiological and experiential aspects of emotion simultaneously.
emotion: As James wrote, "the perception of bodily changes, as they occur, is the emotion".
emotion: Some cultures encourage or discourage happiness, sadness, or jealousy, and the free expression of the emotion of disgust is considered socially unacceptable in most cultures.
emotion: Yet others approach emotions via symbolic movement and facial expression components (like in contemporary Gestalt therapy).
emotion: The word "emotion" was coined in the early 1800s by Thomas Brown and it is around the 1830s that the modern concept of emotion first emerged for the English language.
emotion: These odor pathways gradually formed the neural blueprint for what was later to become our limbic brain.
emotion: Emotions are physical and mental states brought on by neurophysiological and neuropsychological changes, variously associated with thoughts, feelings, behavioral responses, and a degree of pleasure or displeasure.
emotion: This theory is markedly different from both cognitivist and neo-Jamesian theories of emotion, both of which see emotion as a purely internal process, with the environment only acting as a stimulus to the emotion.
emotion: Emotions are complex, involving multiple different components, such as subjective experience, cognitive processes, expressive behavior, psychophysiological changes, and instrumental behavior.
emotion: Ethologists often study one type of behavior (for example, aggression) in a number of unrelated animals.
emotion: Cacioppo (1951–2018), one of the founding fathers of social neuroscience; George Mandler (1924–2016), an American psychologist who wrote influential books on cognition and emotion.
emotion: Emotions have been described as consisting of a coordinated set of responses, which may include verbal, physiological, behavioral, and neural mechanisms.
emotion: Early modern views on emotion are developed in the works of philosophers such as René Descartes, Niccolò Machiavelli, Baruch Spinoza, Thomas Hobbes and David Hume.
emotion: Expression: facial and vocal expression almost always accompanies an emotional state to communicate reaction and intention of actions.
emotion: Turner analyzed a wide range of emotion theories across different fields of research including sociology, psychology, evolutionary science, and neuroscience.
emotion: The second model was supported.
emotion: Recent examples include no-smoking health campaigns and political campaigns emphasizing the fear of terrorism.
emotion: Working independently, they developed the James–Lange theory, a hypothesis on the origin and nature of emotions.
emotion: Silvan Tomkins (1911–1991) developed the affect theory and script theory.
emotion: They include thirst, hunger for air, hunger for food, pain and hunger for specific minerals etc.
emotion: Most contemporary neuroscientists would endorse a modified James–Lange view in which bodily feedback modulates the experience of emotion.
emotion: There is no scientific consensus on a definition.
emotion: In the 19th century emotions were considered adaptive and were studied more frequently from an empiricist psychiatric perspective.
emotion: In communication studies, scholars study the role that emotion plays in the dissemination of ideas and messages.
emotion: Schachter did agree that physiological reactions played a big role in emotions.
emotion: These feelings of exaltation, he argued, ultimately lead people to believe that there were forces that governed sacred objects.
emotion: Current areas of research include the neuroscience of emotion, using tools like positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging scans to study the affective picture processes in the brain.
emotion: This theory is supported by experiments in which by manipulating the bodily state induces a desired emotional state.
emotion: In strategic settings, cross-cultural research on emotions is required for understanding the psychological situation of a given population or specific actors.
emotion: Robert Plutchik agreed with Ekman's biologically driven perspective but developed the "wheel of emotions", suggesting eight primary emotions grouped on a positive or negative basis: joy versus sadness; anger versus fear; trust versus disgust; and surprise versus anticipation.
emotion: With his student, Jerome Singer, Schachter demonstrated that subjects can have different emotional reactions despite being placed into the same physiological state with an injection of epinephrine.
emotion: Ethology is a combination of laboratory and field science, with strong ties to ecology and evolution.
emotion: Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
emotion: Feeling: not all feelings include emotion, such as the feeling of knowing.
emotion: The role of artificial intelligence in relation to emotions in education is examined.
emotion: Bard found that sensory, motor, and physiological information all had to pass through the diencephalon (particularly the thalamus), before being subjected to any further processing.
emotion: Its present form in humans differed from that of the chimpanzees by only a few mutations and has been present for about 200,000 years, coinciding with the beginning of modern humans.
emotion: He proposed what is known as "core-SELF" to be generating these affects.
emotion: The motor centers of reptiles react to sensory cues of vision, sound, touch, chemical, gravity, and motion with pre-set body movements and programmed postures.
emotion: Hence, the combination of the appraisal of the situation (cognitive) and the participants' reception of adrenalin or a placebo together determined the response.
emotion: Through remembering our past achievements and failures, autobiographical memories affect how we perceive and feel about ourselves.
emotion: When people enter a situation or encounter with certain expectations for how the encounter should unfold, they will experience different emotions depending on the extent to which expectations for Self, other and situation are met or not met.
emotion: The situated perspective on emotion states that conceptual thought is not an inherent part of emotion, since emotion is an action-oriented form of skillful engagement with the world.
emotion: In literature and film-making, the expression of emotion is the cornerstone of genres such as drama, melodrama, and romance.
emotion: Students that study animal behaviors have only identified intraspecific examples of gene-dependent behavioral phenotypes.
emotion: Drawing predominantly on Goffman and Cooley's work, Scheff (1990) developed a micro sociological theory of the social bond.
emotion: There is a growing body of research applying the sociology of emotion to understanding the learning experiences of students during classroom interactions with teachers and other students (for example, Milne & Otieno, 2007; Olitsky, 2007; Tobin, et al., 2013; Zembylas, 2002).
emotion: Another classic study found that when participants contorted their facial muscles into distinct facial expressions (for example, disgust), they reported subjective and physiological experiences that matched the distinct facial expressions.
emotion: The theory lost favor in the 20th century, but has regained popularity more recently due largely to theorists such as John T.
emotion: The increased potential in neuroimaging has also allowed investigation into evolutionarily ancient parts of the brain.
emotion: The valence model predicted that anger, a negative emotion, would activate the right prefrontal cortex.
emotion: A distinction can be made between emotional episodes and emotional dispositions.
emotion: Some basic emotions can be modified to form complex emotions.
emotion: In Chinese antiquity, excessive emotion was believed to cause damage to qi, which in turn, damages the vital organs.
emotion: Emotional speech processing recognizes the user's emotional state by analyzing speech patterns.
emotion: Bodily changes in pain, hunger, fear, and rage: an account of recent researches into the function of emotional excitement.
emotion: However, others argue that there are some universal bases of emotions.
emotion: Often, the first two dimensions uncovered by factor analysis are valence (how negative or positive the experience feels) and arousal (how energized or enervated the experience feels).
emotion: In political science, emotions are examined in a number of sub-fields, such as the analysis of voter decision-making.
emotion: An example of this theory in action is as follows: An emotion-evoking event (snake) triggers simultaneously both a physiological response and a conscious experience of an emotion.
emotion: From a mechanistic perspective, emotions can be defined as "a positive or negative experience that is associated with a particular pattern of physiological activity".
emotion: From the component process perspective, emotional experience requires that all of these processes become coordinated and synchronized for a short period of time, driven by appraisal processes.
emotion: James further claims that "we feel sad because we cry, angry because we strike, afraid because we tremble, and either we cry, strike, or tremble because we are sorry, angry, or fearful, as the case may be".
emotion: Attempts are frequently made to regulate emotion according to the conventions of the society and the situation based on many (sometimes conflicting) demands and expectations which originate from various entities.
emotion: For example, interpersonal anger and disgust could blend to form contempt.
emotion: Whenever potentially dangerous stimuli are presented, additional brain structures activate that previous thought (hippocampus, thalamus, etc.).
emotion: Other emotions like fear and anxiety long thought to be exclusively generated by the most primitive parts of the brain (stem) and more associated to the fight-or-flight responses of behavior, have also been associated as adaptive expressions of defensive behavior whenever a threat is encountered.
emotion: For example, a behavioral strategy in which one avoids a situation to avoid unwanted emotions (trying not to think about the situation, doing distracting activities, etc.).
emotion: In the context of emotion, feelings are best understood as a subjective representation of emotions, private to the individual experiencing them.
emotion: Emotions are responses to significant internal and external events.
emotion: For example, spite seems to work against the individual but it can establish an individual's reputation as someone to be feared.
emotion: Some people may believe that emotions give rise to emotion-specific actions, for example, "I'm crying because I'm sad", or "I ran away because I was scared".
emotion: People can also provide positive or negative sanctions directed at Self or other which also trigger different emotional experiences in individuals.
emotion: Psychotherapist Michael C.
