energy: In thermodynamics, for closed systems, the process of energy transfer is described by the first law:
energy: The Sun transforms nuclear potential energy to other forms of energy; its total mass does not decrease due to that itself (since it still contains the same total energy even in different forms) but its mass does decrease when the energy escapes out to its surroundings, largely as radiant energy.
energy: The speed of a chemical reaction (at a given temperature T) is related to the activation energy E by the Boltzmann population factor e−E/kT; that is, the probability of a molecule to have energy greater than or equal to E at a given temperature T.
energy: This can be demonstrated by the following:
energy: The total inflow of energy into a system must equal the total outflow of energy from the system, plus the change in the energy contained within the system.
energy: The notion of quantized energy levels was proposed in 1913 by Danish physicist Niels Bohr in the Bohr theory of the atom.
energy: In the context of chemistry, energy is an attribute of a substance as a consequence of its atomic, molecular, or aggregate structure.
energy: This heating process acts as a reservoir for part of the applied energy, from which it cannot be converted with 100% efficiency into other forms of energy.
energy: Such a fusion process is triggered by heat and pressure generated from gravitational collapse of hydrogen clouds when they produce stars, and some of the fusion energy is then transformed into sunlight.
energy: Energy can be transferred between systems in a variety of ways.
energy: Release of the energy stored during photosynthesis as heat or light may be triggered suddenly by a spark in a forest fire, or it may be made available more slowly for animal or human metabolism when organic molecules are ingested and catabolism is triggered by enzyme action.
energy: During wave function collapse, the conservation of energy does not hold at the local level, although statistically the principle holds on average for sufficiently large numbers of collapses.
energy: This is because energy is the quantity which is canonical conjugate to time.
energy: For example, if our bodies run (on average) at 80 watts, then a light bulb running at 100 watts is running at 1.25 human equivalents (100 ÷ 80) i.e.
energy: For an activity that must be sustained for an hour, output drops to around 300; for an activity kept up all day, 150 watts is about the maximum.
energy: The molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the primary energy transporter in living cells, providing an energy source for cellular processes.
energy: The portion of the energy which does not do work during the transfer is called heat.
energy: Ninety percent of the oxygen intake by humans is utilized by the mitochondria, especially for nutrient processing.
energy: This exponential dependence of a reaction rate on temperature is known as the Arrhenius equation.
energy: Yet another example of energy transformation is that of a simple gravity pendulum.
energy: 'activity, operation', which possibly appears for the first time in the work of Aristotle in the 4th century BC.
energy: When heat is generated, radiation excites lower energy states of these atoms and their surrounding fields.
energy: The law is called the conservation of energy.
energy: While heat can always be fully converted into work in a reversible isothermal expansion of an ideal gas, for cyclic processes of practical interest in heat engines the second law of thermodynamics states that the system doing work always loses some energy as waste heat.
energy: In this system the matter and antimatter (electrons and positrons) are destroyed and changed to non-matter (the photons).
energy: This principle is vitally important to understanding the behavior of a quantity closely related to energy, called entropy.
energy: Sunlight may be stored as gravitational potential energy after it strikes the Earth, as (for example when) water evaporates from oceans and is deposited upon mountains (where, after being released at a hydroelectric dam, it can be used to drive turbines or generators to produce electricity).
energy: The SI unit of power, defined as energy per unit of time, is the watt, which is one joule per second.
energy: The nuclear fusion of hydrogen in the Sun also releases another store of potential energy which was created at the time of the Big Bang.
energy: According to the second law of thermodynamics, this heat can only be completely recovered as usable energy at the price of an increase in some other kind of heat-like disorder in quantum states.
energy: Chemical reactions are usually not possible unless the reactants surmount an energy barrier known as the activation energy.
energy: where 
  
    
      
        δ
        Q
      
    
    {\displaystyle \delta Q}
  
 is the heat supplied to the system and 
  
    
      
        δ
        W
      
    
    {\displaystyle \delta W}
  
 is the work applied to the system.
energy: Thus, conservation of energy (total, including material or rest energy) and conservation of mass (total, not just rest) are one (equivalent) law.
energy: Sunlight's radiant energy is captured by plants as chemical potential energy in photosynthesis, when carbon dioxide and water (two low-energy compounds) are converted into carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and oxygen.
energy: The fact that energy can be neither created nor destroyed is called the law of conservation of energy.
energy: These are not mutually exclusive.
energy: E
          
            0
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle E_{0}}
  
 is the rest energy.
energy: At its highest points the kinetic energy is zero and the gravitational potential energy is at its maximum.
energy: While these two categories are sufficient to describe all forms of energy, it is often convenient to refer to particular combinations of potential and kinetic energy as its own form.
energy: It was invented in the context of classical mechanics, but is generally useful in modern physics.
energy: Other energy units such as the electronvolt, food calorie, thermodynamic kilocalorie and BTU are used in specific areas of science and commerce.
energy: Albert Einstein's 1905 theory of special relativity showed that rest mass corresponds to an equivalent amount of rest energy.
energy: In the center-of-mass reference frame, the bat does no work on the ball.
energy: The first evidence of quantization in atoms was the observation of spectral lines in light from the sun in the early 1800s by Joseph von Fraunhofer and William Hyde Wollaston.
energy: This simplified equation is the one used to define the joule, for example.
energy: Hawking radiation is the emission of black-body radiation from a black hole, which results in a steady loss of mass and rotational energy.
energy: However, the total mass and total energy do not change during this interaction.
energy: The unit of measurement for energy in the International System of Units (SI) is the joule (J).
energy: When this happens, rest mass is not conserved, unlike the total mass or total energy.
energy: Earthquakes also release stored elastic potential energy in rocks, a store that has been produced ultimately from the same radioactive heat sources.
energy: For humans, metabolic equivalent of task (MET) compares the energy expenditure per unit mass while performing a physical activity, relative to a baseline.
energy: It is continually being broken down and synthesized as a component of cellular respiration.
energy: Over time the internal heat is brought to the surface then radiated away into space, cooling the body.
energy: Richard Feynman said during a 1961 lecture:
energy: Denoting this energy by 
  
    
      
        
          E
          
            matter
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle E_{\text{matter}}}
  
, one may write:
energy: Sunlight is the main input to Earth's energy budget which accounts for its temperature and climate stability, after accounting for interaction with the atmosphere.
energy: The portion of the energy which is transferred by conservative forces over a distance is measured as the work the source system does on the receiving system.
energy: It is a derived unit that is equal to the energy expended, or work done, in applying a force of one newton through a distance of one meter.
energy: In different theoretical frameworks, similar formulas were derived by J.
energy: and some of the energy is used to convert ADP into ATP:
energy: These food molecules are oxidized to carbon dioxide and water in the mitochondria:
energy: These energy states are called quanta of light or photons.
energy: An irreversible process is one in which energy is dissipated (spread) into empty energy states available in a volume, from which it cannot be recovered into more concentrated forms (fewer quantum states), without degradation of even more energy.
energy: Several formulations of mechanics have been developed using energy as a core concept.
energy: The accretion of matter onto a compact object is a very efficient means of generating energy from gravitational potential.
energy: In particle physics, this inequality permits a qualitative understanding of virtual particles, which carry momentum.
energy: The human equivalent assists understanding of energy flows in physical and biological systems by expressing energy units in human terms: it provides a "feel" for the use of a given amount of energy.
energy: It states that there is a certain quantity, which we call energy, that does not change in manifold changes which nature undergoes.
energy: Virtual photons are also responsible for the electrostatic interaction between electric charges (which results in Coulomb's law), for spontaneous radiative decay of excited atomic and nuclear states, for the Casimir force, for the Van der Waals force, and some other observable phenomena.
energy: This mathematical entanglement of energy and time also results in the uncertainty principle – it is impossible to define the exact amount of energy during any definite time interval (though this is practically significant only for very short time intervals).
energy: It also led to a mathematical formulation of the concept of entropy by Clausius and to the introduction of laws of radiant energy by Jožef Stefan.
energy: Multicellular organisms such as humans have cell forms that are classified as Eukaryote.
energy: It enables the growth, development, and functioning of a biological cell or organelle in an organism.
energy: There is also a global law of conservation of energy, stating that the total energy of the universe cannot change; this is a corollary of the local law, but not vice versa.
energy: For example, the sum of translational and rotational kinetic and potential energy within a system is referred to as mechanical energy, whereas nuclear energy refers to the combined potentials within an atomic nucleus from either the nuclear force or the weak force, among other examples.
energy: This formalism is as fundamental as the Hamiltonian, and both can be used to derive the equations of motion or be derived from them.
energy: Ongoing sedimentation provides a persistent internal energy source for gas giant planets like Jupiter and Saturn.
energy: Chemical phase changes of minerals during formation provide additional internal heating.
energy: The solution of this equation for a bound system is discrete (a set of permitted states, each characterized by an energy level) which results in the concept of quanta.
energy: For example, consider electron–positron annihilation, in which the rest energy of these two individual particles (equivalent to their rest mass) is converted to the radiant energy of the photons produced in the process.
energy: Examples of energy transformation include generating electric energy from heat energy via a steam turbine, or lifting an object against gravity using electrical energy driving a crane motor.
energy: For a difficult task of only a few seconds' duration, a person can put out thousands of watts, many times the 746 watts in one official horsepower.
energy: In growing organisms the energy that is converted to heat serves a vital purpose, as it allows the organism's tissue to be highly ordered with regard to the molecules it is built from.
energy: In practice all energy transformations are permitted on a sufficiently small scale, but certain larger transformations are highly improbable because it is statistically unlikely that energy or matter will randomly move into more concentrated forms or smaller spaces.
energy: Mechanical and other forms of energy can be transformed in the other direction into thermal energy without such limitations.
energy: Put differently, yesterday, today, and tomorrow are physically indistinguishable.
energy: Its results can be considered as a definition of measurement of energy in quantum mechanics.
energy: In this isolated system, energy cannot be created or destroyed; therefore, the initial energy and the final energy will be equal to each other.
energy: The exchange of virtual particles with real particles is responsible for the creation of all known fundamental forces (more accurately known as fundamental interactions).
energy: All forms of energy contribute to the total mass and total energy.
energy: A reversible process is one in which this sort of dissipation does not happen.
energy: Conservation of energy does apply during wave function collapse in H.
energy: However, some energy transformations can be quite efficient.
energy: Thomson (1881), Henri Poincaré (1900), Friedrich Hasenöhrl (1904), and others (see Mass–energy equivalence#History for further information).
energy: These developments led to the theory of conservation of energy, formalized largely by William Thomson (Lord Kelvin) as the field of thermodynamics.
energy: It is not a description of a mechanism, or anything concrete; it is just a strange fact that we can calculate some number and when we finish watching nature go through her tricks and calculate the number again, it is the same.
energy: This slow lifting represents a kind of gravitational potential energy storage of the thermal energy, which may later be transformed into active kinetic energy during landslides, after a triggering event.
energy: But, in the reference frame of the person swinging the bat, considerable work is done on the ball.
energy: In 1807, Thomas Young was possibly the first to use the term "energy" instead of vis viva, in its modern sense.
energy: The total energy of a system can be subdivided and classified into potential energy, kinetic energy, or combinations of the two in various ways.
energy: That is a most abstract idea, because it is a mathematical principle; it says that there is a numerical quantity which does not change when something happens.
energy: The law of conservation of energy was also first postulated in the early 19th century, and applies to any isolated system.
energy: The direction of transformations in energy (what kind of energy is transformed to what other kind) is often determined by entropy (equal energy spread among all available degrees of freedom) considerations.
energy: By convention, this baseline is 3.5 mL of oxygen consumed per kg per minute, which is the energy consumed by a typical individual when sitting quietly.
energy: In the International System of Units (SI), the unit of energy is the joule.
energy: In biology, energy is an attribute of all biological systems, from the biosphere to the smallest living organism.
energy: In the late 17th century, Gottfried Leibniz proposed the idea of the Latin: vis viva, or living force, which defined as the product of the mass of an object and its velocity squared; he believed that total vis viva was conserved.
energy: The Schrödinger equation equates the energy operator to the full energy of a particle or a system.
energy: In dimensional analysis, the base units of energy are given by: Work = Force × Distance = M L2 T−2, with the fundamental dimensions of Mass M, Length L, and time T.
energy: It is the energy needed to create the system.
energy: According to Noether's theorem, the conservation of energy is a consequence of the fact that the laws of physics do not change over time.
energy: Thus, since 1918, theorists have understood that the law of conservation of energy is the direct mathematical consequence of the translational symmetry of the quantity conjugate to energy, namely time.
energy: In other words, energy is invariant with respect to rotations of space, but not invariant with respect to rotations of spacetime (= boosts).
energy: If one (unrealistically) assumes that there is no friction or other losses, the conversion of energy between these processes would be perfect, and the pendulum would continue swinging forever.
energy: The conversion of a portion of the chemical energy to heat at each step in a metabolic pathway is the physical reason behind the pyramid of biomass observed in ecology.
energy: In the form of the first law of thermodynamics, this states that a closed system's energy is constant unless energy is transferred in or out as work or heat, and that no energy is lost in transfer.
energy: Work and thus energy is frame dependent.
energy: Accreted radiogenic heat sources settle toward the core, providing thermal energy to the planet on a geologic time scale.
energy: This energy is triggered and released in nuclear fission bombs or in civil nuclear power generation.
energy: Examples of large-scale transformations between the rest energy of matter and other forms of energy are found in nuclear physics and particle physics.
energy: Only a tiny fraction of the original chemical energy is used for work:
energy: Work, a function of energy, is force times distance.
energy: At the atomic scale, thermal energy is present in the form of motion and vibrations of individual atoms and molecules.
energy: d
        
        E
        =
        T
        
          d
        
        S
        −
        P
        
          d
        
        V
        
        ,
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathrm {d} E=T\mathrm {d} S-P\mathrm {d} V\,,}
energy: All stellar phenomena (including solar activity) are driven by various kinds of energy transformations.
energy: As the object evaporates, the temperature of this radiation is predicted to increase, speeding up the process.
energy: This is a reversible process – the inverse process is called pair creation – in which the rest mass of the particles is created from a sufficiently energetic photon near a nucleus.
energy: Prior to this, they represent release of energy that has been stored in heavy atoms since the collapse of long-destroyed supernova stars (which created these atoms).
energy: Conversely, the mass equivalent of an everyday amount energy is minuscule.
energy: The Schrödinger equation describes the space- and time-dependence of a slowly changing (non-relativistic) wave function of quantum systems.
energy: This means that rest mass can be converted to or from equivalent amounts of (non-material) forms of energy, for example, kinetic energy, potential energy, and electromagnetic radiant energy.
energy: Energy is a conserved quantity—the law of conservation of energy states that energy can be converted in form, but not created or destroyed.
energy: It was argued for some years whether heat was a physical substance, dubbed the caloric, or merely a physical quantity, such as momentum.
energy: W
        =
        
          ∫
          
            C
          
        
        
          F
        
        ⋅
        
          d
        
        
          s
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W=\int _{C}\mathbf {F} \cdot \mathrm {d} \mathbf {s} }
energy: An example of a solar-mediated weather event is a hurricane, which occurs when large unstable areas of warm ocean, heated over months, suddenly give up some of their thermal energy to power a few days of violent air movement.
energy: Thus, according to present understanding, familiar events such as landslides and earthquakes release energy that has been stored as potential energy in the Earth's gravitational field or elastic strain (mechanical potential energy) in rocks.
energy: Since a chemical transformation is accompanied by a change in one or more of these kinds of structure, it is usually accompanied by a decrease, and sometimes an increase, of the total energy of the substances involved.
energy: It states that nonequilibrium systems behave in such a way as to maximize their entropy production.
energy: Differences between Heat and Thermal energy (Archived 2016-08-27 at the Wayback Machine) – BioCab
The Journal of Energy History / Revue d'histoire de l'énergie (JEHRHE), 2018–Archived 2021-11-13 at the Wayback Machine
energy: m0 is the rest mass of the body,
c is the speed of light in vacuum,
energy: Most kinds of energy (with gravitational energy being a notable exception) are subject to strict local conservation laws as well.
energy: Another energy-related concept is called the Lagrangian, after Joseph-Louis Lagrange.
energy: For example, consider a ball being hit by a bat.
energy: The classical equations of motion can be written in terms of the Hamiltonian, even for highly complex or abstract systems.
energy: In special relativity energy is also a scalar (although not a Lorentz scalar but a time component of the energy–momentum 4-vector).
energy: Devices that usefully transform between these forms are called transducers.
energy: In general relativity, the stress–energy tensor serves as the source term for the gravitational field, in rough analogy to the way mass serves as the source term in the non-relativistic Newtonian approximation.
energy: Lifting against gravity performs mechanical work on the object and stores gravitational potential energy in the object.
energy: There are strict limits to how efficiently heat can be converted into work in a cyclic process, e.g.
energy: Energy transformations in the universe over time are characterized by various kinds of potential energy, that has been available since the Big Bang, being "released" (transformed to more active types of energy such as kinetic or radiant energy) when a triggering mechanism is available.
energy: Two examples of nutrients consumed by animals are glucose (C6H12O6) and stearin (C57H110O6).
energy: In this case, energy can only be exchanged between adjacent regions of space, and all observers agree as to the volumetric density of energy in any given space.
energy: This equation is highly specific, ignoring all chemical, electrical, nuclear, and gravitational forces, effects such as advection of any form of energy other than heat and PV-work.
energy: In the present day, this radiogenic heat production was primarily driven by the decay of Uranium-235, Potassium-40, and Thorium-232 some time in the past.
energy: In the 18th century, these had appeared as two seemingly-distinct laws.
energy: These classical equations have direct analogs in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics.
energy: The uncertainty principle should not be confused with energy conservation – rather it provides mathematical limits to which energy can in principle be defined and measured.
energy: in a heat engine, as described by Carnot's theorem and the second law of thermodynamics.
energy: The second law of thermodynamics is simple only for systems which are near or in a physical equilibrium state.
energy: The activation energy necessary for a chemical reaction can be provided in the form of thermal energy.
energy: Thermodynamics is chiefly concerned with changes in internal energy and not its absolute value, which is impossible to determine with thermodynamics alone.
energy: The general formulation of the first law (i.e., conservation of energy) is valid even in situations in which the system is not homogeneous.
energy: This mathematical result is part of the second law of thermodynamics.
energy: At two points in the oscillation cycle it is entirely kinetic, and at two points it is entirely potential.
energy: The Lagrangian is defined as the kinetic energy minus the potential energy.
energy: Simpler organisms can achieve higher energy efficiencies than more complex ones, but the complex organisms can occupy ecological niches that are not available to their simpler brethren.
energy: It is related to the potential energy, e.g., molecular structure, crystal structure, and other geometric aspects, as well as the motion of the particles, in form of kinetic energy.
energy: This creates a limit to the amount of heat energy that can do work in a cyclic process, a limit called the available energy.
energy: To account for slowing due to friction, Leibniz theorized that thermal energy consisted of the motions of the constituent parts of matter, although it would be more than a century until this was generally accepted.
energy: The modern quantum mechanical theory giving an explanation of these energy levels in terms of the Schrödinger equation was advanced by Erwin Schrödinger and Werner Heisenberg in 1926.
energy: The formula E = mc2, derived by Albert Einstein (1905) quantifies this mass–energy equivalence between relativistic mass and energy within the concept of special relativity.
energy: For example, conversion of energy from one type of potential field to another is reversible, as in the pendulum system described above.
energy: There is no known exception to this law – it is exact so far as we know.
energy: At its lowest point the kinetic energy is at its maximum and is equal to the decrease in potential energy.
energy: The complete conversion of matter, such as atoms, to non-matter, such as photons, occurs during interaction with antimatter.
energy: In classical mechanics, energy is a conceptually and mathematically useful property, as it is a conserved quantity.
energy: When an isolated system is given more degrees of freedom (i.e., given new available energy states that are the same as existing states), then total energy spreads over all available degrees equally without distinction between "new" and "old" degrees.
energy: This law is a fundamental principle of physics.
energy: Each of the basic forces of nature is associated with a different type of potential energy, and all types of potential energy (like all other types of energy) appear as system mass, whenever present.
energy: Energy and mass are manifestations of one and the same underlying physical property of a system.
energy: The word energy derives from the Ancient Greek: ἐνέργεια, romanized: energeia, lit.
energy: Thermodynamics aided the rapid development of explanations of chemical processes by Rudolf Clausius, Josiah Willard Gibbs, Walther Nernst, and others.
energy: Noether's theorem (1918) states that any differentiable symmetry of the action of a physical system has a corresponding conservation law.
energy: Some energy may be transferred between the surroundings and the reactants in the form of heat or light; thus the products of a reaction have sometimes more but usually less energy than the reactants.
energy: The daily 1,600–3,000 calories (7–13 MJ) recommended for a human adult are taken as food molecules, mostly carbohydrates and fats.
energy: For non-equilibrium systems, the laws governing the systems' behavior are still debatable.
energy: All living creatures rely on an external source of energy to be able to grow and reproduce – radiant energy from the Sun in the case of green plants and chemical energy (in some form) in the case of animals.
energy: In this heat death the energy of the universe does not change, but the fraction of energy which is available to do work through a heat engine, or be transformed to other usable forms of energy (through the use of generators attached to heat engines), continues to decrease.
energy: This has led to the hypothesis of the inevitable thermodynamic heat death of the universe.
energy: As an example, to take just the first step in the food chain: of the estimated 124.7 Pg/a of carbon that is fixed by photosynthesis, 64.3 Pg/a (52%) are used for the metabolism of green plants, i.e.
energy: In classical physics, energy is a scalar quantity, the canonical conjugate to time.
energy: Δ
        E
        Δ
        t
        ≥
        
          
            ℏ
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Delta E\Delta t\geq {\frac {\hbar }{2}}}
energy: Energy in such transformations is either from gravitational collapse of matter (usually molecular hydrogen) into various classes of astronomical objects (stars, black holes, etc.), or from nuclear fusion (of lighter elements, primarily hydrogen).
energy: In contrast to the modern definition, energeia was a qualitative philosophical concept, broad enough to include ideas such as happiness and pleasure.
energy: Early in a planet's history, the accretion process provides impact energy that can partially or completely melt the body.
energy: As the universe evolves with time, more and more of its energy becomes trapped in irreversible states (i.e., as heat or as other kinds of increases in disorder).
energy: Likewise, whenever energy is transferred between systems by any mechanism, an associated mass is transferred with it.
energy: He called it rest energy: energy which every massive body must possess even when being at rest.
energy: These cells include an organelle called the mitochondria that generates chemical energy for the rest of the hosting cell.
energy: This meant that hydrogen represents a store of potential energy that can be released by fusion.
energy: For tasks lasting a few minutes, a fit human can generate perhaps 1,000 watts.
energy: Part of the rest energy (equivalent to rest mass) of matter may be converted to other forms of energy (still exhibiting mass), but neither energy nor mass can be destroyed; rather, both remain constant during any process.
energy: There is a fact, or if you wish, a law, governing all natural phenomena that are known to date.
energy: This property is responsible for the inertia and strength of gravitational interaction of the system ("mass manifestations"), and is also responsible for the potential ability of the system to perform work or heating ("energy manifestations"), subject to the limitations of other physical laws.
energy: Examples include the transmission of electromagnetic energy via photons, physical collisions which transfer kinetic energy, tidal interactions, and the conductive transfer of thermal energy.
energy: In other words it is the energy required by body organs to perform normally.
energy: Energy may be transformed between different forms at various efficiencies.
energy: Everett's many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics.
energy: Noether's theorem shows that the symmetry of this equation is equivalent to a conservation of probability.
energy: One of the guiding principles for these systems is the principle of maximum entropy production.
energy: Energy provided through cellular respiration is stored in nutrients such as carbohydrates (including sugars), lipids, and proteins by cells.
energy: This allows a planet to become differentiated by chemical element.
energy: Energy is strictly conserved and is also locally conserved wherever it can be defined.
energy: Similarly, in the case of a chemical explosion, chemical potential energy is transformed to kinetic and thermal energy in a very short time.
energy: which is similar in form to the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle, but not really mathematically equivalent thereto, since E and t are not dynamically conjugate variables, neither in classical nor in quantum mechanics.
energy: On any time scale, the uncertainty in the energy is given by:
energy: Kinetic energy is determined by the movement of an object – or the composite motion of the object's components – while potential energy reflects the potential of an object to have motion, generally being based upon the object's position within a field or what is stored within the field itself.
energy: This says that the work (
  
    
      
        W
      
    
    {\displaystyle W}
  
) is equal to the line integral of the force F along a path C; for details see the mechanical work article.
energy: As shown rigorously by Noether's theorem, the conservation of energy is a mathematical consequence of translational symmetry of time, a property of most phenomena below the cosmic scale that makes them independent of their locations on the time coordinate.
energy: At that time, according to theory, space expanded and the universe cooled too rapidly for hydrogen to completely fuse into heavier elements.
energy: At the quantum level, mass-energy interactions are all subject to this principle.
energy: In quantum mechanics, energy is defined in terms of the energy operator
(Hamiltonian) as a time derivative of the wave function.
energy: For such adiabatic processes,
energy: Entropy is a measure of evenness of a distribution of energy between parts of a system.
energy: This is referred to as conservation of energy.
energy: The Penrose process is a theoretical method by which energy could be extracted from a rotating black hole.
energy: For example, a compressed spring will be slightly more massive than before it was compressed.
energy: In a slower process, radioactive decay of atoms in the core of the Earth releases heat, which supplies more than half of the planet's internal heat budget.
energy: For example, 1 kg of rest mass equals 9×1016 joules, equivalent to 21.5 megatonnes of TNT.
energy: d
        
        E
        =
        δ
        Q
        +
        δ
        W
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathrm {d} E=\delta Q+\delta W}
energy: In quantum mechanics energy is expressed using the Hamiltonian operator.
energy: In human terms, the human equivalent (H-e) (Human energy conversion) indicates, for a given amount of energy expenditure, the relative quantity of energy needed for human metabolism, using as a standard an average human energy expenditure of 6,900 kJ per day and a basal metabolic rate of 80 watts.
energy: Noether's theorem has become a fundamental tool of modern theoretical physics and the calculus of variations.
energy: The CGS energy unit is the erg and the imperial and US customary unit is the foot-pound.
energy: If the object falls to the ground, gravity does mechanical work on the object which transforms the potential energy in the gravitational field to the kinetic energy released as heat on impact with the ground.
energy: The total energy of a system can be calculated by adding up all forms of energy in the system.
energy: This behavior is responsible for some of the universe's brightest persistent energy sources.
energy: Over a whole cycle, or over many cycles, average energy is equally split between kinetic and potential.
energy: For these cases the change in internal energy of a closed system is expressed in a general form by:
energy: A reaction is said to be exothermic or exergonic if the final state is lower on the energy scale than the initial state; in the less common case of endothermic reactions the situation is the reverse.
energy: This is an example of the equipartition principle: the total energy of a system with many degrees of freedom is equally split among all available degrees of freedom, on average.
energy: Usually, the Lagrange formalism is mathematically more convenient than the Hamiltonian for non-conservative systems (such as systems with friction).
energy: Examples of transducers include a battery (from chemical energy to electric energy), a dam (from gravitational potential energy to the kinetic energy of water spinning the blades of a turbine, and ultimately to electric energy through an electric generator), and a heat engine (from heat to work).
energy: As a simplification, the heat term, 
  
    
      
        Q
      
    
    {\displaystyle Q}
  
, can sometimes be ignored, especially for fast processes involving gases, which are poor conductors of heat, or when the thermal efficiency of the transfer is high.
energy: The photons each have no rest mass but nonetheless have radiant energy which exhibits the same inertia as did the two original particles.
energy: Thus, a kilowatt-hour (kWh), which can be realized as the energy delivered by one kilowatt of power for an hour, is equal to 3.6 million joules.
energy: reconverted into carbon dioxide and heat.
energy: The Earth's climate and ecosystems processes are driven primarily by radiant energy from the Sun.
energy: Gustave-Gaspard Coriolis described "kinetic energy" in 1829 in its modern sense, and in 1853, William Rankine coined the term "potential energy".
energy: The total energy of a system is sometimes called the Hamiltonian, after William Rowan Hamilton.
energy: In 1845 James Prescott Joule discovered the link between mechanical work and the generation of heat.
energy: Energy (from Ancient Greek  ἐνέργεια (enérgeia) 'activity') is the quantitative property that is transferred to a body or to a physical system, recognizable in the capacity to do work and in the form of heat and light.
energy: This thermal energy drives plate tectonics and may lift mountains, via orogenesis.
energy: Whenever one measures (or calculates) the total energy of a system of particles whose interactions do not depend explicitly on time, it is found that the total energy of the system always remains constant.
energy: All living organisms constantly take in and release energy.
energy: The modern analog of this property, kinetic energy, differs from vis viva only by a factor of two.
