entertainment: A children's entertainer or performer is a professional whose job it is to entertain children.
entertainment: Sophisticated visual effects and CGI techniques, for example, rather than humans, were used not only to create realistic images of people, landscapes and events (both real and fantastic) but also to animate non-living items such as Lego normally used as entertainment as a game in physical form.
entertainment: One of the consequences of the development of the entertainment industry has been the creation of new types of employment.
entertainment: In some cases, such as the international running group Hash House Harriers, participants create a blend of sport and entertainment for themselves, largely independent of spectator involvement, where the social component is more important than the competitive.
entertainment: Games are played for entertainment – sometimes purely for recreation, sometimes for achievement or reward as well.
entertainment: Many are geared for children, and can be played outdoors, including hopscotch, hide and seek, or Blind man's bluff.
entertainment: However, "in many cases of animal advocacy groups versus organisations accused of animal abuse, both sides have cultural claims."
entertainment: the exchange of official presents ...
entertainment: It tends to gather a crowd, usually has a distinct beginning and end, and is done in conjunction with street theatre, puppeteering, magicians, comedians, acrobats, jugglers and sometimes musicians.
entertainment: For example, fireworks were one of the primary forms of display chosen to celebrate the turn of the millennium around the world.
entertainment: The Sydney Opera House, for example, is a World Heritage Site and The O2 in London is an entertainment precinct that contains an indoor arena, a music club, a cinema and exhibition space.
entertainment: Comics and editorial cartoons are literary genres that use drawings or graphics, usually in combination with text, to convey an entertaining narrative.
entertainment: There are three basic forms of contemporary street performance.
entertainment: Sometimes referred to as show business, the industry relies on business models to produce, market, broadcast or otherwise distribute many of its traditional forms, including performances of all types.
entertainment: until the 21st century when they are still being used for many of their original purposes – to impress visitors, especially important ones; to show hospitality; as an occasion to showcase supporting entertainments such as music or dancing, or both.
entertainment: From earliest times, crowds at an entertainment have associated hazards and dangers, especially when combined with the recreational consumption of intoxicants such as alcohol.
entertainment: Sometimes entertainment can be a mixture for both.
entertainment: Vaulting poles, for example, were originally made from woods such as ash, hickory or hazel; in the 19th century bamboo was used and in the 21st century poles can be made of carbon fibre.
entertainment: For example, there are awards for music, games (including video games), comics, theatre, television, film, dance and magical arts.
entertainment: The Japanese Manga style differs from the western approach in that it encompasses a wide range of genres and themes for a readership of all ages.
entertainment: The skill of managing, organising and preparing the stage for a performance is known as stagecraft.
entertainment: It is often combined with other forms of entertainment, such as comedy or music and showmanship is often an essential part of magic performances.
entertainment: It also provides words like "merry-making", "pleasure", and "delight", as well as "to receive as a guest and show hospitality to".
entertainment: This can occur in various forms of ceremony, celebration, religious festival, or satire.
entertainment: Sometimes they also commemorate or celebrate.
entertainment: Physical games can develop agility and competence in motor skills.
entertainment: Even when the primary purpose of the writing is to inform or instruct, reading is well known for its capacity to distract from everyday worries.
entertainment: The psychology of entertainment as well as of learning has been applied to all these fields.
entertainment: For example, some audiences expect to listen silently and are entertained by the excellence of the music, its rendition or its interpretation.
entertainment: A key aspect of entertainment is the audience, which transforms a private recreation or leisure activity into entertainment.
entertainment: However, all performers run the risk of failing to hold their audience's attention and thus, failing to entertain.
entertainment: Parades are held for a range of purposes, often more than one.
entertainment: Whether their mood is sombre or festive, being public events that are designed to attract attention and activities that necessarily divert normal traffic, parades have a clear entertainment value to their audiences.
entertainment: Some expected that halfway through the second decade of the 21st century, online entertainment would have completely replaced television – which did not happen.
entertainment: This was the case with "masked dance-dramas" in Korea, which "originated in conjunction with village shaman rituals and eventually became largely an entertainment form for commoners".
entertainment: However, they require "a whole new approach" to design, because they need to be "sophisticated entertainment centres, multi-experience venues, capable of being enjoyed in many diverse ways".
entertainment: Entertainment may skilfully consider universal philosophical questions such as: "What does it mean to be human?"; "What is the right thing to do?"; or "How do I know what I know?".
entertainment: Entertainment is big business, especially in the United States, but ubiquitous in all cultures.
entertainment: Collections of stories, such as Grimms' Fairy Tales or those by Hans Christian Andersen, have been similarly influential.
entertainment: Others have unique authors who offer a more personal, philosophical view of the world and the problems people face.
entertainment: Performance takes a wide range of forms, including theatre, music and drama.
entertainment: Opera is a similarly demanding performance style that remains popular.
entertainment: Others maintain that pole vaulting was used in warfare to vault over fortress walls during battle." The equipment for such sports has become increasingly sophisticated.
entertainment: Capital punishments that lasted longer, such as stoning and drawing and quartering, afforded a greater public spectacle.
entertainment: Some of the most powerful and long-lasting stories are the foundation stories, also called origin or creation myths such as the Dreamtime myths of the Aboriginal Australians, the Mesopotamian Epic of Gilgamesh, or the Hawaiian stories of the origin of the world.
entertainment: On the other hand, many folk dances (such as Scottish Highland dancing and Irish dancing), have evolved into competitions, which by adding to their audiences, has increased their entertainment value.
entertainment: The speed at which the venue empty is important both for amenity and safety, because large crowds take a long time to disperse from a badly designed venue, which creates a safety risk.
entertainment: Beyond the very large numbers involved in playing these sports, they are notable for being a major source of entertainment for many millions of non-players worldwide.
entertainment: It was "an integral aspect of London's life", for example, when the city in the early 19th century was "filled with spectacle and diversion".
entertainment: Hence, architects now have to design "with two distinct functions in mind, as sports and entertainment centres playing host to live audiences, and as sports and entertainment studios serving the viewing and listening requirements of the remote audience".
entertainment: Interactive books such as "choose your own adventure" can make literary entertainment more participatory.
entertainment: During the 20th century, starting with the often criticised but nonetheless important work of G.
entertainment: From London 1851 to Paris 1900, "in excess of 200 million visitors had entered the turnstiles in London, Paris, Vienna, Philadelphia, Chicago and a myriad of smaller shows around the world." Since World War II "well over 500 million visits have been recorded through world expo turnstiles".
entertainment: They can also be played online with participants joining in remotely.
entertainment: Films also re-imagine entertainment from other forms, turning stories, books and plays, for example, into new entertainments.
entertainment: This type of act occasionally uses public transport as a venue.
entertainment: The instruments used in musical entertainment are either solely the human voice or solely instrumental or some combination of the two.
entertainment: For example, a story told in dramatic form can be presented in an open-air theatre, a music hall, a cinema, a multiplex, or as technological possibilities advanced, via a personal electronic device such as a tablet computer.
entertainment: It is "not only entertainment, it is also thinking through human conflicts and contradictions".
entertainment: They can be played alone, in teams, or online; by amateurs or by professionals.
entertainment: Many types are blended or supported by other forms.
entertainment: Some people watching the parade or procession may have made a special effort to attend, while others become part of the audience by happenstance.
entertainment: Their ultimate international competitions, the FIFA World Cup and the Cricket World Cup, are broadcast around the world.
entertainment: Two of the chief architectural concerns for the design of venues for mass audiences are speed of egress and safety.
entertainment: James, the Muslim Hajj and the Hindu Kumbh Mela, which may appear to the outsider as an entertaining parade or procession, are not intended as entertainment: they are instead about an individual's spiritual journey.
entertainment: Former courtly entertainments, such as jousting, often also survived in children's games.
entertainment: It also encompass all three forms, demanding a high level of musical and dramatic skill, collaboration and like the masque, production expertise as well.
entertainment: It is accepted that as well as being entertaining, playing games helps children's development.
entertainment: "Once literacy had arrived in strength, there was no return to the oral prerogative." The advent of printing, the reduction in costs of books and an increasing literacy all served to enhance the mass appeal of reading.
entertainment: The introduction of television altered the availability, cost, variety and quality of entertainment products for the public and the convergence of online entertainment is having a similar effect.
entertainment: Street entertainment, street performance, or "busking" are forms of performance that have been meeting the public's need for entertainment for centuries.
entertainment: Written stories have been enhanced by illustrations, often to a very high artistic standard, for example, on illuminated manuscripts and on ancient scrolls such as Japanese ones.
entertainment: For example, the durbar was introduced to India by the Mughals, and passed onto the British Empire, which then followed Indian tradition: "institutions, titles, customs, ceremonies by which a Maharaja or Nawab were installed ...
entertainment: "The meaning of life", for example, is the subject in a wide range of entertainment forms, including film, music and literature.
entertainment: Entertainment is provided for mass audiences in purpose-built structures such as a theatre, auditorium, or stadium.
entertainment: Storytelling is an ancient form of entertainment that has influenced almost all other forms.
entertainment: The connections between the different types of entertainment are shown by the way that stories like this inspire a retelling in another medium, such as music, film or games.
entertainment: This constitutes a significant change from earlier times.
entertainment: Whether the performance is given by vocalists or instrumentalists, the performers may be soloists or part of a small or large group, in turn entertaining an audience that might be individual, passing by, small or large.
entertainment: Whatever their mood or primary purpose, parades attract and entertain people who watch them pass by.
entertainment: This is in contrast to education (which is designed with the purpose of developing understanding or helping people to learn) and marketing (which aims to encourage people to purchase commercial products).
entertainment: For example, the modern sport of surfing is associated with Hawaii and that of snow skiing probably evolved in Scandinavia.
entertainment: and had the desired effect of putting an end to me giving any more entertainments in the house.
entertainment: Dance can be serious in tone, such as when it is used to express a culture's history or important stories; it may be provocative; or it may put in the service of comedy.
entertainment: Philip Astley is regarded as the founder of the modern circus in the second half of the 18th century and Jules Léotard is the French performer credited with developing the art of the trapeze, considered synonymous with circuses.
entertainment: At the same time, commercial newspapers "began to carry theatre columns and reviews" that helped make theatre "a legitimate subject of intellectual debate" in general discussions about art and culture.
entertainment: Court ceremonies, palace banquets and the spectacles associated with them, have been used not only to entertain but also to demonstrate wealth and power.
entertainment: Architects who push the boundaries of design or construction sometimes create buildings that are entertaining because they exceed the expectations of the public and the client and are aesthetically outstanding.
entertainment: Even more listeners are entertained by pre-recorded music and listen privately.
entertainment: The tourism industry, for example, creates or renovates buildings as "attractions" that have either never been used or can never be used for their ostensible purpose.
entertainment: Like horse racing, camel racing requires human riders, while greyhound racing does not.
entertainment: Limericks, for example, use verse in a strict, predictable rhyme and rhythm to create humour and to amuse an audience of listeners or readers.
entertainment: Both Dickens and Thackeray wrote about a hanging in Newgate Prison in 1840, and "taught an even wider public that executions are obscene entertainments".
entertainment: It is also "the result of a deliberate effort to protect the interests of business entities, policy institutions and other groups".
entertainment: The third form, café busking, is performed mostly in restaurants, pubs, bars and cafés.
entertainment: Society's attitudes to female dancers depend on the culture, its history and the entertainment industry itself.
entertainment: Examples include the Hindu Ramayana and Mahabharata; Homer's Odyssey and Iliad; the first Arabic novel Hayy ibn Yaqdhan; the Persian epic Shahnameh; the Sagas of Icelanders and the celebrated Tale of the Genji.
entertainment: Since it combines many forms of entertainment –  music, movement, storytelling, theatre –  it provides a good example of the various ways that these forms can be combined to create entertainment for different purposes and audiences.
entertainment: As the clock struck midnight and 1999 became 2000, firework displays and open-air parties greeted the New Year as the time zones changed over to the next century.
entertainment: Audience dissatisfaction is often brutally honest and direct.
entertainment: Live performances before an audience constitute a major form of entertainment, especially before the invention of audio and video recording.
entertainment: Nationalism, authoritarianism and racism have played a part in banning dances or dancing.
entertainment: Other games, such as bingo, played with numerous strangers, have been organised to involve the participation of non-players via gambling.
entertainment: They watched as "lions and bears danced to the music of pipes and cymbals; horses were trained to kneel, bow, dance and prance ...
entertainment: In farce, the comedy is a primary purpose.
entertainment: Other activities, such as walking on stilts, are still seen in circus performances in the 21st century.
entertainment: Another evolution, similar to that from courtly entertainment to common practice, was the transition from religious ritual to secular entertainment, such as happened during the Goryeo dynasty with the Narye festival.
entertainment: Schulz who produced a popular comic called Peanuts about the relationships among a cast of child characters; and Michael Leunig who entertains by producing whimsical cartoons that also incorporate social criticism.
entertainment: The art and practice of busking is still celebrated at annual busking festivals.
entertainment: New stadia continue to be built to suit the ever more sophisticated requirements of global audiences.
entertainment: They both involve animals and are variously regarded as sport, entertainment or cultural tradition.
entertainment: Courtly entertainments also demonstrate the complex relationship between entertainer and spectator: individuals may be either an entertainer or part of the audience, or they may swap roles even during the course of one entertainment.
entertainment: The players may have an audience of non-players, such as when people are entertained by watching a chess championship.
entertainment: Usually thought of as a travelling show performed in a big top, circus was first performed in permanent venues.
entertainment: Japan's unique sumo wrestling contains ritual elements that derive from its long history.
entertainment: The Hillsborough disaster is an example of how poor aspects of building design can contribute to audience deaths.
entertainment: One of the oldest known board games is Senet, a game played in Ancient Egypt, enjoyed by the pharaoh Tutankhamun.
entertainment: "A hanging was a carnival that diverted not merely the unemployed but the unemployable.
entertainment: Prestigious awards are given by the industry for excellence in the various types of entertainment.
entertainment: Video games are played using a controller to create results on a screen.
entertainment: Components of it include the Hollywood and Bollywood film industries, as well as the cinema of the United Kingdom and all the cinemas of Europe, including France, Germany, Spain, Italy and others.
entertainment: Audiences began to gather to "appreciate creative achievement, to marvel at, and be entertained by, the prominent 'stars'." Vaudeville and music halls, popular at this time in the United States, England, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, were themselves eventually superseded.
entertainment: One-liner jokes and satire are also used to comedic effect in literature.
entertainment: Astley brought together performances that were generally familiar in traditional British fairs "at least since the beginning of the 17th century": "tumbling, rope-dancing, juggling, animal tricks and so on".
entertainment: In the 1940s, radio was the electronic medium for family entertainment and information.
entertainment: Storytelling, music, drama, dance, and various kinds of performance exist in all cultures, were supported in royal courts, and developed into sophisticated forms over time, eventually becoming available to the general public.
entertainment: The film industry is a part of the entertainment industry.
entertainment: Others include fandom and interactive storytelling as well as the way that single franchises are distributed through and affect a range of delivery methods.
entertainment: Imperial and royal courts have provided training grounds and support for professional entertainers, with different cultures using palaces, castles and forts in different ways.
entertainment: Should a member of the ruling class merely watch performances or be a participant and perform?
entertainment: Fireworks are a part of many public entertainments and have retained an enduring popularity since they became a "crowning feature of elaborate celebrations" in the 17th century.
entertainment: In modern times, banquets are available privately, or commercially in restaurants, sometimes combined with a dramatic performance in dinner theatres.
entertainment: Its themes encompass the meaning of life, as well as "the ethics of entertainment, artificial intelligence, multiple worlds, God, and philosophical method".
entertainment: Although most forms of entertainment have evolved and continued over time, some once-popular forms are no longer as acceptable.
entertainment: Reading has been a source of entertainment for a very long time, especially when other forms, such as performance entertainments, were (or are) either unavailable or too costly.
entertainment: In the 21st century, entertainment venues, especially stadia, are "likely to figure among the leading architectural genres".
entertainment: However, they have drastically declined.
entertainment: Film therefore became a part of the entertainment industry from its early days.
entertainment: coming from all over the globe and from vastly varied time periods." Whether from Africa, Asia or Europe, dance is constantly negotiating the realms of political, social, spiritual and artistic influence." Even though dance traditions may be limited to one cultural group, they all develop.
entertainment: The audience's experience of the entertainment is affected by their expectations, the stagecraft, the type of stage, and the type and standard of seating provided.
entertainment: On the other hand, players in a game may constitute their own audience as they take their turn to play.
entertainment: On the other hand, sometimes architecture is entertainment, while pretending to be functional.
entertainment: Originally "solely religious or ritualistic, a secular component was added at the conclusion".
entertainment: One of the most famous visual accounts of children's games is a painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder called Children's Games, painted in 1560.
entertainment: The manner in which the Kumbh Mela, for example, "is divorced from its cultural context and repackaged for Western consumption –  renders the presence of voyeurs deeply problematic."
Parades generally impress and delight often by including unusual, colourful costumes.
entertainment: Equipment varies with the game.
entertainment: Its economic impact means that it is also considered a global industry, one in which horses are carefully transported around the world to compete in races.
entertainment: The Ancient Greeks had Dionysian Mysteries, for example, and the Romans had Saturnalia.
entertainment: It demonstrates that while some films, particularly those in the Hollywood tradition that combines "realism and melodramatic romanticism", are intended as a form of escapism, others require a deeper engagement or more thoughtful response from their audiences.
entertainment: Sporting competitions have always provided entertainment for crowds.
entertainment: All types of stage are used with all types of seating for the audience, including the impromptu or improvised; the temporary; the elaborate; or the traditional and permanent.
entertainment: In royal courts, such as in the Byzantine court, and presumably, also in its wealthy households, "mimes were the focus of orchestrated humour, expected or obliged to make fun of all at court, not even excepting the emperor and members of the imperial family.
entertainment: Cavalcades and the modern variant, the motorcade, are examples of public processions.
entertainment: Countries have responded to the special needs of children and the rise of digital entertainment by developing systems such as television content rating systems, to guide the public and the entertainment industry.
entertainment: Many of these games, such as marbles, hide-and-seek, blowing soap bubbles and piggyback riding continue to be played.
entertainment: Banning had the effect of making "the dance craze" even greater.
entertainment: For example, in the United States, baseball and basketball games are popular forms of entertainment; in Bhutan, the national sport is archery; in New Zealand, it is rugby union; in Iran, it is freestyle wrestling.
entertainment: The term can be used to describe a children's musician or television presenter, but encompasses a wide range of specializations, including magicians, costumed performers, puppeteers and party princesses.
entertainment: The list of ball games is quite extensive.
entertainment: In Sudan, musical instruments such as the so-called "slit" or "talking" drums, once "part of the court orchestra of a powerful chief", had multiple purposes: they were used to make music; "speak" at ceremonies; mark community events; send long-distance messages; and call men to hunt or war.
entertainment: They are also important components of celebrations such as coronations, weddings, birthdays civic or political achievements, military engagements or victories as well as religious obligations, one of the most famous being the Banqueting House, Whitehall in London.
entertainment: Music is a supporting component of many kinds of entertainment and most kinds of performance.
entertainment: Globalisation and cultural imperialism are two of the cultural consequences of convergence.
entertainment: Charlie Chaplin's film The Great Dictator was a brave and innovative parody, also on a political theme.
entertainment: Even if a parade uses new technology and is some distance away, it is likely to have a strong appeal, draw the attention of onlookers and entertain them.
entertainment: Many religious festivals (especially those that incorporate processions, such as Holy Week processions or the Indian festival of Holi) have some entertainment appeal in addition to their serious purpose.
entertainment: Animals that perform trained routines or "acts" for human entertainment include fleas in flea circuses, dolphins in dolphinaria, and monkeys doing tricks for an audience on behalf of the player of a street organ.
entertainment: Therefore, what appears as entertainment may also be a means of achieving insight or intellectual growth.
entertainment: These too are developed into books, films, music and games in a way that increases their longevity and enhances their entertainment value.
entertainment: For example, the award-winning Senegalese film Xala takes government corruption as its theme.
entertainment: The industry became so sophisticated that its economics became a separate area of academic study.
entertainment: The audience may have a passive role, as in people watching a play, opera, television show, or film; or an active role, as in games, where participant and audience roles can interchange.
entertainment: The amount of time expended by children indoors on screen-based entertainment and the "remarkable collapse of children's engagement with nature" has drawn criticism for its negative effects on imagination, adult cognition and psychological well-being.
entertainment: Festivals devoted to music, film, or dance entertain audiences over consecutive days.
entertainment: The Bayreuth Festspielhaus in Germany is a theatre designed and built for performances of one specific musical composition.
entertainment: Other apparently usable buildings are really follies, deliberately constructed for a decorative purpose and never intended to be practical.
entertainment: Entertainment also evolved into different forms and expressions as a result of social upheavals such as wars and revolutions.
entertainment: Aristotle and his teacher Plato both wrote on the theory and purpose of theatre.
entertainment: An example of a creative work that considers philosophical questions so entertainingly that it has been presented in a very wide range of forms is The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
entertainment: Stories are still told in the early forms, for example, around a fire while camping, or when listening to the stories of another culture as a tourist.
entertainment: Some contests between animals, once popular entertainment for the public, have become illegal because of the cruelty involved.
entertainment: The rapid development of entertainment technology was assisted by improvements in data storage devices such as cassette tapes or compact discs, along with increasing miniaturisation.
entertainment: It depicts children playing a range of games that presumably were typical of the time.
entertainment: From the 1930s to 1950s, movies and radio were the "only mass entertainment" but by the second decade of the 21st century, technological changes, economic decisions, risk aversion and globalisation reduced both the quality and range of films being produced.
entertainment: The list of serious incidents at nightclubs includes those caused by crowd crush; terrorism, such as the 2002 Bali bombings that targeted a nightclub; and especially fire.
entertainment: Questions such as these drive many narratives and dramas, whether they are presented in the form of a story, film, play, poem, book, dance, comic, or game.
entertainment: video screens, interactive computer kiosks, day care ..
entertainment: Similarly, other activities, such as cooking, have evolved into performances among professionals, staged as global competitions, and broadcast for entertainment.
entertainment: Fire and water were important aspects of court spectacles because the displays "inspired by means of fire, sudden noise, smoke and general magnificence the sentiments thought fitting for the subject to entertain of his sovereign: awe fear and a vicarious sense of glory in his might.
entertainment: In some courts, such as those during the Byzantine Empire, the genders were segregated among the upper classes, so that "at least before the period of the Komnenoi" (1081–1185) men were separated from women at ceremonies where there was entertainment such as receptions and banquets.
entertainment: Sightlines and acoustics are also important design considerations in most theatrical venues.
entertainment: This is similar to the way that the nobility in earlier times could stage private musical performances or the use of domestic theatres in large homes to perform private plays in earlier centuries.
entertainment: Performance magic relies on deception, psychological manipulation, sleight of hand and other forms of trickery to give an audience the illusion that a performer can achieve the impossible.
entertainment: Dramatic examples include Shakespeare's influential play Hamlet, whose hero articulates these concerns in poetry; and films, such as The Matrix, which explores the nature of knowledge and was released worldwide.
entertainment: In the 16th and 17th centuries, European royal courts presented masques that were complex theatrical entertainments involving dancing, singing and acting.
entertainment: The consequence of excess and crowds can produce breaches of social norms of behaviour, sometimes causing injury or even death, such as for example, at the Altamont Free Concert, an outdoor rock festival.
entertainment: The wide variety of musical performances, whether or not they are artificially amplified, all provide entertainment irrespective of whether the performance is from soloists, choral or orchestral groups, or ensemble.
entertainment: Aside from their contribution to entertainments related to military successes, courtly displays and personal celebrations, fireworks are also used as part of religious ceremony.
entertainment: They might be improvised or highly choreographed; spontaneous for personal entertainment (such as when children begin dancing for themselves); a private audience, a paying audience, a world audience, or an audience interested in a particular dance genre.
entertainment: People could not only select an entertainment product such as a piece of music, film or game, they could choose the time and place to use it.
entertainment: Entertainment is a form of activity that holds the attention and interest of an audience or gives pleasure and delight.
entertainment: and I received the wet towel, full force, in the face, which staggered me ...
entertainment: Showing how stories are used to pass the time and entertain an audience of travellers, Chaucer used pilgrims in his literary work The Canterbury Tales in the 14th century, as did Wu Cheng'en in the 16th century in Journey to the West.
entertainment: Some dances, such as traditional dance and ballet, need a very high level of skill and training; others, such as the can-can, require a very high level of energy and physical fitness.
entertainment: Animals kept in zoos in ancient times were often kept there for later use in the arena as entertainment or for their entertainment value as exotica.
entertainment: Among the organisations set up to advocate for the rights of animals are some whose concerns include the use of animals for entertainment.
entertainment: Sometimes the climate offers a chance to adapt another sport such as in the case of ice hockey – an important entertainment in Canada.
entertainment: No other results or measurable benefits are usually expected from it (except perhaps the final score in a sporting entertainment).
entertainment: Comedy is both a genre of entertainment and a component of it, providing laughter and amusement, whether the comedy is the sole purpose or used as a form of contrast in an otherwise serious piece.
entertainment: Audiences generally show their appreciation of an entertaining performance with applause.
entertainment: Modern times have accelerated this process through an entertainment industry that records and sells entertainment products.
entertainment: However, the distinctions become blurred when education seeks to be more "entertaining" and entertainment or marketing seek to be more "educational".
entertainment: It is a valued contributor to many forms of entertainment, including in literature, theatre, opera, film and games.
entertainment: Originally published in the early 19th century, this collection of folk stories significantly influence modern popular culture, which subsequently used its themes, images, symbols, and structural elements to create new entertainment forms.
entertainment: One of the most famous venues in the Western world, the Colosseum, "dedicated AD 80 with a hundred days of games, held fifty thousand spectators," and in it audiences "enjoyed blood sport with the trappings of stage shows".
entertainment: Hunting wild animals, for example, was introduced into the Roman Empire from Carthage and became a popular public entertainment and spectacle, supporting an international trade in wild animals.
entertainment: An entertainment might go beyond gratification and produce some insight in its audience.
entertainment: The options cater to a wide range of skill and fitness levels.
entertainment: For example, it is used to enhance storytelling, it is indispensable in dance and opera, and is usually incorporated into dramatic film or theatre productions.
entertainment: For example, during earlier centuries in Europe, watching or participating in the punishment of criminals or social outcasts was an accepted and popular form of entertainment.
entertainment: Video games are popular across the world.
entertainment: A comparable multi-stage, long-form sport with global appeal is the Tour de France, unusual in that it takes place outside of special stadia, being run instead in the countryside.
entertainment: the order of precedence", for example, were "all inherited from ...
entertainment: Spectacles, competitions, races, and sports were once presented in this purpose-built arena as public entertainment.
entertainment: Occasionally, a parade takes place in an improvised theatre space (such as the Trooping the Colour in ) and tickets are sold to the physical audience while the global audience participates via broadcast.
entertainment: Some education-entertainment is a serious attempt to combine the best features of the two.
entertainment: Individuals and corporations use video hosting services to broadcast content that is equally accepted by the public as legitimate entertainment.
entertainment: Films are a major form of entertainment, although not all films have entertainment as their primary purpose: documentary film, for example, aims to create a record or inform, although the two purposes often work together.
entertainment: The so-called "digital revolution" has produced an increasingly transnational marketplace that has caused difficulties for governments, business, industries, and individuals, as they all try to keep up.
entertainment: It cites a 1490 usage by William Caxton.
entertainment: One estimate was that by 2011 over 30 per cent of households in the US would own a Wii console, "about the same percentage that owned a television in 1953".
entertainment: Such mixtures are often known by the neologisms "edutainment" or "infotainment".
entertainment: For example, the conflict between opponents of pigeon shooting who view it as "a cruel and moronic exercise in marksmanship, and proponents, who view it as entertainment" has been tested in a court of law.
entertainment: Gladiatorial combats, also known as "gladiatorial games", popular during Roman times, provide a good example of an activity that is a combination of sport, punishment, and entertainment.
entertainment: Some dances, such as the quadrille, a square dance that "emerged during the Napoleonic years in France" and other country dances were once popular at social gatherings like balls, but are now rarely performed.
entertainment: The audiences have different expectations of the performers as well as of their own role in the performance.
entertainment: The tourism industry now regards safety and security at entertainment venues as an important management task.
entertainment: For these games, all that is needed is a deck of playing cards.
entertainment: Animation, for example, which involves the display of rapid movement in an art work, is one of these techniques that particularly appeals to younger audiences.
entertainment: Buildings, history and sacred spaces are thus made into commodities for purchase.
entertainment: Shakespeare wrote seventeen comedies that incorporate many techniques still used by performers and writers of comedy – such as jokes, puns, parody, wit, observational humour, or the unexpected effect of irony.
entertainment: Even capital punishment such as hanging and beheading, offered to the public as a warning, were also regarded partly as entertainment.
entertainment: Examples include "the preservation of the Alcázar of Toledo, with its grim Civil War History, the conversion of slave dungeons into tourist attractions in Ghana, [such as, for example, Cape Coast Castle] and the presentation of indigenous culture in Libya".
entertainment: Nautch dancers in the Mughal Empire performed in Indian courts and palaces.
entertainment: Films and video games, though using newer media, continue to tell stories, present drama, and play music.
entertainment: Some entertainment, such as public executions, is now illegal in most countries.
entertainment: Sometimes a walk-by act spontaneously turns into a circle show.
entertainment: Fairs and exhibitions have existed since ancient and medieval times, displaying wealth, innovations and objects for trade and offering specific entertainments as well as being places of entertainment in themselves.
entertainment: One of the most notable consequences of the rise of electronic entertainment has been the rapid obsolescence of the various recording and storage methods.
entertainment: In the modern day, it often involves sedentary engagement with television or tablet computer.
entertainment: The advent of computer-generated imagery (CGI) in the 21st century made it "possible to do spectacle" more cheaply and "on a scale never dreamed of" by Cecil B.
entertainment: Hence, stories and activities, whether in books, film, or video games were developed specifically for child audiences.
entertainment: Among literature's many genres are some designed, in whole or in part, purely for entertainment.
entertainment: Changes to what is regarded as entertainment can occur in response to cultural or historical shifts.
entertainment: Hence, the relationship between spectator and participant, unlike entertainments proper, is different.
entertainment: The evolution of an activity into a sport and then an entertainment is also affected by the local climate and conditions.
entertainment: For example, during the Indian Dashavatara Kala of Gomantaka "the temple deity is taken around in a procession with a lot of singing, dancing and display of fireworks".
entertainment: The form of entertainment known as stage magic or conjuring and recognisable as performance, is based on traditions and texts of magical rites and dogmas that have been a part of most cultural traditions since ancient times.
entertainment: Children have always played games.
entertainment: They were an integral part of court entertainments and helped entertainers develop their skills.
entertainment: Stories remain a common way of entertaining a group that is on a journey.
entertainment: New jobs have appeared, such as gaffer or special effects supervisor in the film industry, and attendants in an amusement park.
entertainment: Novels give great scope for investigating these themes while they entertain their readers.
entertainment: Court entertainments were typically performed for royalty and courtiers as well as "for the pleasure of local and visiting dignitaries".
entertainment: While these sports and the entertainment they offer to spectators have spread around the world, people in the two originating countries remain well known for their prowess.
entertainment: The Story of Film, a documentary about the history of film, gives a survey of global achievements and innovations in the medium, as well as changes in the conception of film-making.
entertainment: People find it entertaining to watch animals race competitively, whether they are trained, like horses, camels or dogs, or untrained, like cockroaches.
entertainment: Examples of the second sort include the individual work over 50 years of Charles M.
entertainment: Whether in a medieval market or a small shop, "shopping always offered forms of exhilaration that took one away from the everyday".
entertainment: Royal courts, such as the Korean one, also supported traditional dances.
entertainment: The use of animals for entertainment is sometimes controversial, especially the hunting of wild animals.
entertainment: In the 21st century, as with adult products, much entertainment is available for children on the internet for private use.
entertainment: Relatively minor changes to the form and venue of an entertainment continue to come and go as they are affected by the period, fashion, culture, technology, and economics.
entertainment: They presented conquered peoples and nations that exalted the prestige of the victor.
entertainment: For example, convergence is challenging standard practices in the film industry: whereas "success or failure used to be determined by the first weekend of its run.
entertainment: the Emperors of Delhi".
entertainment: Entry for the day's events at the Tiltyard in Whitehall was set at 12d".
entertainment: By the 16th century in Europe, the appeal of reading for entertainment was well established.
entertainment: Number games such as Sudoku and puzzle games like the Rubik's Cube can develop mental prowess.
entertainment: The "proliferation of portable media players and the emphasis on the computer as a site for film consumption" together have significantly changed how audiences encounter films.
entertainment: While technology increases demand for entertainment products and offers increased speed of delivery, the forms that make up the content are in themselves, relatively stable.
entertainment: Fantasy magicians have held an important place in literature for centuries, offering entertainment to millions of readers.
entertainment: Technological developments in the 20th century, especially in the area of mass media, meant that entertainment could be produced independently of the audience, packaged and sold on a commercial basis by an entertainment industry.
entertainment: Hence, although stories may be delivered directly to a small listening audience, they are also presented as entertainment and used as a component of any piece that relies on a narrative, such as film, drama, ballet, and opera.
entertainment: However, as cultures become more sophisticated, national nuances appear in the style and references so that what is amusing in one culture may be unintelligible in another.
entertainment: Minstrels or troubadours are part of the tradition.
entertainment: What is entertaining for one group or individual may be considered work or cruelty by another.
entertainment: The parks are built on a large area subdivided into themed areas named "lands".
entertainment: In modern times, some of the grandest buildings for entertainment have brought fame to their cities as well as their designers.
entertainment: Entertainment is also provided to children or taught to them by adults.
entertainment: The first form is the "circle show".
entertainment: Psychologists say the function of media entertainment is "the attainment of gratification".
entertainment: Developments in stadium and auditorium design, as well as in recording and broadcast technology, have allowed off-site spectators to watch sport, with the result that the size of the audience has grown ever larger and spectator sport has become increasingly popular.
entertainment: Various political regimes have sought to control or ban dancing or specific types of dancing, sometimes because of disapproval of the music or clothes associated with it.
entertainment: Among these are blood sports such as bear-baiting, dog fighting and cockfighting.
entertainment: The second form, the walk-by act, has no distinct beginning or end.
entertainment: In Korea, the "court entertainment dance" was "originally performed in the palace for entertainment at court banquets."
Court entertainment often moved from being associated with the court to more general use among commoners.
entertainment: For example, composers Rimsky-Korsakov, Ravel and Szymanowski have each been inspired by the Scheherazade story and turned it into an orchestral work; director Pasolini made a film adaptation; and there is an innovative video game based on the tale.
entertainment: Entertaining the audience is a normal part of dance but its physicality often also produces joy for the dancers themselves.
entertainment: Epic narratives, poems, sagas and allegories from all cultures tell such gripping tales that they have inspired countless other stories in all forms of entertainment.
entertainment: Since the 20th century, performed music, once available only to those who could pay for the performers, has been available cheaply to individuals by the entertainment industry, which broadcasts it or pre-records it for sale.
entertainment: Increasingly sophisticated techniques have been used in the film medium to delight and entertain audiences.
entertainment: Most forms of entertainment have persisted for centuries, evolving due to cultural, technological, and fashion changes, as seen with stage magic.
entertainment: In the second half of the 20th century and in the 21st century the number of such games increased enormously, providing a wide variety of entertainment to players around the world.
entertainment: In Australia, the horse race run on Melbourne Cup Day is a public holiday and the public regards the race as an important annual event.
entertainment: Caricature uses a kind of graphic entertainment for purposes ranging from merely putting a smile on the viewer's face, to raising social awareness, to highlighting the moral characteristics of a person being caricatured.
entertainment: Sometimes they have a serious purpose, such as when the context is military, when the intention is sometimes to intimidate; or religious, when the audience might participate or have a role to play.
entertainment: The power of stories to entertain is evident in one of the most famous ones – Scheherazade – a story in the Persian professional storytelling tradition, of a woman who saves her own life by telling stories.
entertainment: Card games, such as whist, poker and Bridge have long been played as evening entertainment among friends.
entertainment: At the same time, the ongoing need for entertainers as "professional engagers" shows the continuity of traditional entertainment.
entertainment: They are instead re-purposed to entertain visitors often by simulating cultural experiences.
entertainment: Dance is "a form of cultural representation" that involves not just dancers, but "choreographers, audience members, patrons and impresarios ...
entertainment: Many forms of public humiliation also offered local entertainment in the past.
entertainment: Storytelling, music, theatre, dance and games are recognisably the same as in earlier centuries.
entertainment: Furthermore, as fonts were standardised and texts became clearer, "reading ceased being a painful process of decipherment and became an act of pure pleasure".
entertainment: Sometimes, religious rituals have been adapted or evolved into secular entertainments, or like the Festa del Redentore in Venice, have managed to grow in popularity while holding both secular and sacred purposes in balance.
entertainment: Computerisation and the development of barcodes also made ticketing easier, faster and global.
entertainment: For example, the splendid 1595 Accession Day celebrations of Queen Elizabeth I offered tournaments and jousting and other events performed "not only before the assembled court, in all their finery, but also before thousands of Londoners eager for a good day's entertainment.
entertainment: Familiar forms of entertainment can cross over into different media and have demonstrated seemingly unlimited potential for creative remix, ensuring the continuity and longevity of many themes, images, and structures.
entertainment: They are erected indoors or outdoors.
entertainment: It is said, for example, that pole vaulting "may have originated in the Netherlands, where people used long poles to vault over wide canals rather than wear out their clogs walking miles to the nearest bridge.
entertainment: Such intentional tourist attractions divorce buildings from the past so that "the difference between historical authenticity and contemporary entertainment venues/theme parks becomes hard to define".
entertainment: Sometimes the whole amusement park is based on one theme, such as the various SeaWorld parks that focus on the theme of sea life.
entertainment: Singing is generally accompanied by instruments although some forms, notably a cappella and overtone singing, are unaccompanied.
entertainment: Such events reinforce the relationship between ruler and ruled; between those with power and those without, serving to "dramatise the differences between ordinary families and that of the ruler".
entertainment: Between the demise of the Roman 'circus' and the foundation of Astley's Amphitheatre in London some 1300 years later, the nearest thing to a circus ring was the rough circle formed by the curious onlookers who gathered around the itinerant tumbler or juggler on a village green."
entertainment: Simple physical comedy such as slapstick is entertaining to a broad range of people of all ages.
entertainment: As an example of speed of change driven by electronic media, over the course of one generation, television as a medium for receiving standardised entertainment products went from unknown, to novel, to ubiquitous and finally to superseded.
entertainment: Such at least was the case with me –  the publican devised a plan to bring my entertainment to an end abruptly, and the plan was, he told the waiter to throw a wet towel at me, which, of course, the waiter did ...
entertainment: Sporting awards are made for the results and skill, rather than for the entertainment value.
entertainment: They might be a part of a celebration, such as a wedding or New Year, or a cultural ritual with a specific purpose, such as a dance by warriors like a haka.
entertainment: a series of exhibition 'windows', such as DVD, pay-per-view, and fibre-optic video-on-demand are used to maximise profits." Part of the industry's adjustment is its release of new commercial product directly via video hosting services.
entertainment: To distinguish the players from the audience, the latter are often known as spectators.
entertainment: Quotations related to Entertainment at Wikiquote
entertainment: What kind of entertainment should be provided for those who do not belong to the elite?" The "Ptolemys in Egypt, the Seleucids in Pergamum" also had a strong theatrical tradition and later, wealthy patrons in Rome staged "far more lavish productions".
entertainment: Some people are entertained by others' pain or the idea of their unhappiness (schadenfreude).
entertainment: In the 20th century, radio and television, often broadcast live, extended the theatrical tradition that continued to exist alongside the new forms.
entertainment: The specially constructed buildings in amusement parks represent the park's theme and are usually neither authentic nor completely functional.
entertainment: Children's entertainment is centred on play and is significant for their growth.
entertainment: Of course you all ought to know that while singing a good song or, or giving a good recitation ...
entertainment: Some may have evolved from serious or necessary activities (such as running and jumping) into competition and then become entertainment.
entertainment: Buildings such as Guggenheim Museum Bilbao, designed by Frank Gehry, are of this type, becoming a tourist attraction as well as a significant international museum.
entertainment: Audiences amazed at the stunt performances and escape acts of Harry Houdini, for example, regarded him as a magician.
entertainment: While jobs such as writer, musician and composer exist as they always have, people doing this work are likely to be employed by a company rather than a patron as they once would have been.
entertainment: "African American dancers were typically banned from performing in minstrel shows until after the American Civil War."
Dances can be performed solo, in pairs, in groups, or by massed performers.
entertainment: In combination with products from the entertainment industry, all the traditional forms of entertainment became available personally.
entertainment: However, in the modern world, "merchandising has become entertainment: spinning signs, flashing signs, thumping music ...
entertainment: Many entertainments, including storytelling but especially music and drama, remain familiar but have developed into a wide variety of form to suit a very wide range of personal preferences and cultural expression.
entertainment: Both stories and information have been passed on through the tradition of orality and oral traditions survive in the form of performance poetry for example.
entertainment: Two of the most popular sports with global appeal are association football and cricket.
entertainment: Depending on the rhythm, instrument, performance and style, music is divided into many genres, such as classical, jazz, folk, rock, pop music or traditional.
entertainment: Other contests involving animals remain controversial and have both supporters and detractors.
entertainment: Fox hunting, which involves the use of horses as well as hounds, and bullfighting, which has a strong theatrical component, are two entertainments that have a long and significant cultural history.
entertainment: In the 1950s, it was television that was the new medium and it rapidly became global, bringing visual entertainment, first in black and white, then in colour, to the world.
entertainment: However, pilgrimages, such as the Roman Catholic pilgrimage of the Way of St.
entertainment: Plays, musicals, monologues, pantomimes, and performance poetry are part of the very long history of theatre, which is also the venue for the type of performance known as comedy.
entertainment: Many contests between animals are now regarded as sports –  for example, horse racing is regarded as both a sport and an important source of entertainment.
entertainment: One of the earliest forms of parade were "triumphs" –  grand and sensational displays of foreign treasures and spoils, given by triumphant Roman generals to celebrate their victories.
entertainment: First used in China, classical antiquity and Europe for military purposes, fireworks were most popular in the 18th century and high prices were paid for pyrotechnists, especially the skilled Italian ones, who were summoned to other countries to organise displays.
entertainment: During the Chinese Cultural Revolution, for example, Revolutionary opera was sanctioned by the Communist party and World War I, the Great Depression and the Russian Revolution all affected entertainment.
entertainment: In the Maya city states, for example, "spectacles often took place in large plazas in front of palaces; the crowds gathered either there or in designated places from which they could watch at a distance." Court entertainments also crossed cultures.
entertainment: Aristotle posed questions such as "What is the function of the arts in shaping character?
entertainment: The "fire, sudden noise and smoke" of fireworks is still a significant part of public celebration and entertainment.
entertainment: Amusement parks entertain paying guests with rides, such as roller coasters, ridable miniature railways, water rides, and dark rides, as well as other events and associated attractions.
entertainment: Cooking by professional chefs has also become a form of entertainment as part of global competitions such as the Bocuse d'Or.
entertainment: Other audiences of live performances are entertained by the ambience and the chance to participate.
entertainment: Theatre performances, typically dramatic or musical, are presented on a stage for an audience and have a history that goes back to Hellenistic times when "leading musicians and actors" performed widely at "poetical competitions", for example at "Delphi, Delos, Ephesus".
entertainment: The sex industry is another component of the entertainment industry, applying the same forms and media (for example, film, books, dance and other performances) to the development, marketing and sale of sex products on a commercial basis.
entertainment: Similarly, in Shanghai, China, in the 1930s, "dancing and nightclubs had come to symbolise the excess that plagued Chinese society" and officials wondered if "other forms of entertainment such as brothels" should also be banned.
entertainment: For example, during the Nazi regime, American dances such as swing, regarded as "completely un-German", had "become a public offense and needed to be banned".
entertainment: The Romans, for example, were entertained both by competitions involving wild animals and acts performed by trained animals.
entertainment: Stories may be told wordlessly, in music, dance or puppetry for example, such as in the Javanese tradition of wayang, in which the performance is accompanied by a gamelan orchestra or the similarly traditional Punch and Judy show.
entertainment: Board games, such as Go, Monopoly or backgammon need a board and markers.
entertainment: Investigations, such as that carried out in the US after The Station nightclub fire often demonstrate that lessons learned "regarding fire safety in nightclubs" from earlier events such as the Cocoanut Grove fire do "not necessarily result in lasting effective change".
entertainment: The importance and impact of entertainment is recognised by scholars and its increasing sophistication has influenced practices in other fields such as museology.
entertainment: For example, in Africa, there are "Dahomean dances, Hausa dances, Masai dances and so forth." Ballet is an example of a highly developed Western form of dance that moved to the theatres from the French court during the time of Louis XIV, the dancers becoming professional theatrical performers.
entertainment: The many forms of dance provide entertainment for all age groups and cultures.
entertainment: Efforts to prevent such incidents include appointing special officers, such as the medieval Lord of Misrule or, in modern times, security officers who control access; and also ongoing improvement of relevant standards such as those for building safety.
entertainment: Many activities that appeal to children such as puppets, clowns, pantomimes and cartoons are also enjoyed by adults.
entertainment: Expectations about the performance and their engagement with it have changed over time.
entertainment: Activities like fencing or archery, once used in hunting or war, have become spectator sports.
entertainment: The technology enabled people to see, hear and participate in all the familiar forms –  stories, theatre, music, dance –  wherever they live.
entertainment: They were not only hugely popular but affected international ideas.
entertainment: acrobats turning handsprings over wild lions and vaulting over wild leopards." There were "violent confrontations with wild beasts" and "performances over time became more brutal and bloodier".
entertainment: In the court at the Palace of Versailles, "thousands of courtiers, including men and women who inhabited its apartments, acted as both performers and spectators in daily rituals that reinforced the status hierarchy".
entertainment: Entertainment can be adapted to suit any scale, ranging from an individual choosing private entertainment from an enormous array of pre-recorded products, to a banquet for two, to parties of any size with music and dance, to performances for thousands, and even global audiences.
entertainment: The meaning of the word "comedy" and the audience's expectations of it have changed over time and vary according to culture.
entertainment: Media convergence is said to be more than technological: the convergence is cultural as well.
entertainment: Many contemporary comics have elements of fantasy and are produced by companies that are part of the entertainment industry.
entertainment: Modern concerts often use various special effects and other theatrics to accompany performances of singing and dancing.
entertainment: It includes, for example, croquet, lawn bowling and paintball as well as many sports using various forms of balls.
entertainment: For example, drama, stories and banqueting (or dining) are commonly enhanced by music; sport and games are incorporated into other activities to increase appeal.
entertainment: helps to arrest the company's attention ...
entertainment: For example, the 1878 Paris Exposition facilitated international cooperation about ideas, innovations and standards.
entertainment: Entertainment can be public or private, involving formal, scripted performances such as theatre or concerts, or unscripted and spontaneous, as with children's games.
entertainment: It can be an idea or a task, but it is more commonly one of the activities or events developed over thousands of years specifically to engage an audience.
entertainment: Good buskers control the crowd so patrons do not obstruct foot traffic.
entertainment: Operetta and music halls became available, and new drama theatres such as the Moscow Art Theatre and the Suvorin Theatre in Russia opened.
entertainment: Live performances use specialised venues, which might be small or large; indoors or outdoors; free or expensive.
entertainment: Even though journeys can now be completed much faster, stories are still told to passengers en route in cars and aeroplanes either orally or delivered by some form of technology.
entertainment: Although people's attention is captured by different things due to individual preferences, most forms of entertainment are recognisable and familiar.
entertainment: This type has the potential to be the most lucrative for the performer because there are likely to be more donations from larger audiences if they are entertained by the act.
entertainment: Comics about superheroes such as Superman are of the first type.
entertainment: The stage and the spaces set out in front of it for an audience create a theatre.
entertainment: They have been hunted for entertainment (as opposed to hunted for food); displayed while they hunt for prey; watched when they compete with each other; and watched while they perform a trained routine for human amusement.
entertainment: Often, part of the entertainment for children playing a game is deciding who is part of their audience and who is a player.
entertainment: The experience of being entertained is strongly associated with amusement, so one common understanding is fun and laughter, although many entertainments serve serious purposes.
entertainment: The annual Lord Mayor's Show in London is an example of a civic parade that has survived since medieval times.
entertainment: By the 1970s, games could be played electronically, then hand-held devices provided mobile entertainment, and by the last decade of the 20th century, via networked play.
entertainment: Like court entertainment, royal occasions such as coronations and weddings provided opportunities to entertain both the aristocracy and the people.
entertainment: Aside from sports that have worldwide appeal and competitions, such as the Olympic Games, the entertainment value of a sport depends on the culture and country where people play it.
entertainment: Most forms of entertainment can be or are modified to suit children's needs and interests.
entertainment: Good bourgeois or curious aristocrats who could afford it watched it from a carriage or rented a room." Public punishment as entertainment lasted until the 19th century by which time "the awesome event of a public hanging aroused the[ir] loathing of writers and philosophers".
entertainment: By the 19th century, "expos" that encouraged arts, manufactures and commerce had become international.
entertainment: A circus, described as "one of the most brazen of entertainment forms", is a special type of theatrical performance, involving a variety of physical skills such as acrobatics and juggling and sometimes performing animals.
entertainment: Typically, the busker provides an entertaining ambience, often with an unusual instrument, and the audience may not stop to watch or form a crowd.
entertainment: Although kings, rulers and powerful people have always been able to pay for entertainment to be provided for them and in many cases have paid for public entertainment, people generally have made their own entertainment or when possible, attended a live performance.
entertainment: For example, the possibility and popularity of user-generated content, as distinct from commercial product, creates a "networked audience model [that] makes programming obsolete".
entertainment: Music is also a universal and popular type of entertainment on its own, constituting an entire performance such as when concerts are given.
entertainment: It has been claimed that "there is no direct link between the Roman circus and the circus of modern times.
