entrepreneurship: "Entrepreneur" ( , UK also ) is a loanword from French.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurship within an existing firm or large organization has been referred to as intrapreneurship and may include corporate ventures where large entities "spin-off" subsidiary organizations.
entrepreneurship: census data shows that whites are more likely than Asians, African-Americans and Latinos to be self-employed in high prestige, lucrative industries.
entrepreneurship: An alternative description posited by Israel Kirzner suggests that the majority of innovations may be much more incremental improvements such as the replacement of paper with plastic in the making of drinking straws.
entrepreneurship: However, entrepreneurs often do not believe that they have taken an enormous amount of risks because they do not perceive the level of uncertainty to be as high as other people do.
entrepreneurship: They consistently found chances of entrepreneurial success rises with age.
entrepreneurship: When non-routine strategies are needed, distrusting persons perform better, while when routine strategies are needed trusting persons perform better.
entrepreneurship: Social entrepreneurship is the use of business techniques by start-up companies and other entrepreneurs to develop, fund, and implement solutions to social, cultural, or environmental issues.
entrepreneurship: Resolving the first challenge requires project-entrepreneurs to access an extensive range of information needed to seize new investment opportunities.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurs need to communicate effectively to shareholders.
entrepreneurship: Especially in Britain, the term "adventurer" was often used to denote the same meaning.
entrepreneurship: An alternative description by Israel Kirzner (born 1930) suggests that the majority of innovations may be incremental improvements – such as the replacement of paper with plastic in the construction of a drinking straw – that require no special qualities.
entrepreneurship: Earlier work similarly found that serial entrepreneurs draw on accumulated human capital, networks, and the acquired ability to recognize patterns from earlier businesses when identifying and pursuing new opportunities.
entrepreneurship: In the early 19th century, the French economist Jean-Baptiste Say provided a broad definition of entrepreneurship, saying that it "shifts economic resources out of an area of lower and into an area of higher productivity and greater yield".
entrepreneurship: The term entrepreneur (French: [ɑ̃tʁəpʁənœʁ]) refers to an individual who creates and/or invests in one or more businesses, bearing most of the risks and enjoying most of the rewards.
entrepreneurship: Cattell states that personality is a system that is related to the environment and further adds that the system seeks explanation to the complex transactions conducted by both—traits and attitudes.
entrepreneurship: A 2011 article for the Academy of Management provided a three-step, "Input-Process-Output" model of strategic entrepreneurship.
entrepreneurship: They were followed by Sam Walton; J.
entrepreneurship: In the 2000s, story-telling has emerged as a field of study in cultural entrepreneurship.
entrepreneurship: Their economic value is generating activities or services through mobilization by entrepreneurs.
entrepreneurship: The fish and chip industry in the UK was initiated by Jewish entrepreneurs, with Joseph Malin opening the first fish and chip shop in London in the 1860s, while Samuel Isaacs opened the first sit-down fish restaurant in 1896 which he expanded into a chain comprising 22 restaurants.
entrepreneurship: They argued that in entrepreneurial firms the threat of failure is ever-present, resembling non-routine situations in high-risk settings.
entrepreneurship: In the Ashanti Empire, successful entrepreneurs who accumulated large wealth and men as well as distinguished themselves through heroic deeds were awarded social and political recognition by being called "Abirempon" which means big men.
entrepreneurship: In the 20th century, the understanding of entrepreneurship owes much to the work of economist Joseph Schumpeter in the 1930s and other Austrian economists such as Carl Menger, Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich von Hayek.
entrepreneurship: Looking at data from the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM), entrepreneurial traits specific to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are: experience in managing or owning a business, pursuit of an opportunity while being employed, and self-employment.
entrepreneurship: The notion has been widely applied.
entrepreneurship: Åsa Hansson, who looked at empirical evidence from Sweden, found that the probability of becoming self-employed decreases with age for women, but increases with age for men.
entrepreneurship: However, proof of competence was not required to start a business.
entrepreneurship: Changes in politics and society in Russia and China in the late 20th century saw a flowering of entrepreneurial activity, producing Russian oligarchs
and Chinese millionaires.
entrepreneurship: A 2002 survey of 58 business history professors gave the top spots in American business history to Henry Ford, followed by Bill Gates; John D.
entrepreneurship: This is typically done by exiting or stepping back from an existing business before starting the next which distinguishes them from the portfolio entrepreneur who manages multiple businesses simultaneously.
entrepreneurship: However, their findings also show that those who are self-employed and possess a graduate degree has remained consistent throughout time at about 33 percent.
entrepreneurship: The studies fall into two camps: the first camp finds that taxes help and the second argues that taxes hurt entrepreneurship.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurial resources can be divided into two fundamental categories: tangible and intangible resources.
entrepreneurship: Extensions of Schumpeter's thesis about entrepreneurship have sought to describe the traits of an entrepreneur using various data sets and techniques.
entrepreneurship: The word first appeared in the French dictionary entitled Dictionnaire Universel de Commerce compiled by Jacques des Bruslons and published in 1723.
entrepreneurship: It is the act of being an entrepreneur, or the owner or manager of a business enterprise who, by risk and initiative, attempts to make profits.
entrepreneurship: Despite Schumpeter's early 20th-century contributions, traditional microeconomic theory did not formally consider the entrepreneur in its theoretical frameworks (instead of assuming that resources would find each other through a price system).
entrepreneurship: They briefly mention those famous entrepreneurs like Steve Jobs and Mark Zuckerberg who were college dropouts, but they don't consider these cases to be exceptional as many entrepreneurs view formal education as costly due to the time that needs to be spent on it.
entrepreneurship: Some view entrepreneurship as allocated to the entrepreneur.
entrepreneurship: In this sense, entrepreneurship encompasses the activities of both established firms and startups.
entrepreneurship: The entrepreneurial process is uncertain because opportunities can only be identified after they have been exploited.
entrepreneurship: While religion can operate as a major element in society, it is largely overlooked in entrepreneurship research
— though  Clal, a Jewish think-tank and training institute, has collaborated with Columbia Business School to offer an MBA-level spiritual-entrepreneurship course.
entrepreneurship: Nonverbal elements in speech such as the tone of voice, the look in the sender's eyes, body language, hand gestures and state of emotions are also important communication tools.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurship ranges in scale from solo, part-time projects to large-scale undertakings that involve a team and which may create many jobs.
entrepreneurship: According to Schumpeter, an entrepreneur is willing and able to convert a new idea or invention into a successful innovation.
entrepreneurship: Third, taking on a level of risk is a necessity.
entrepreneurship: Communication is pivotal in the role of entrepreneurship because it enables leaders to convince potential investors, partners and employees about the feasibility of a venture.
entrepreneurship: the identification of business-related opportunities through a process of using existing, new or a recombination of resources in an innovative and creative way.
entrepreneurship: This belief draws upon a leader's past experiences that may prove useful.
entrepreneurship: Cantillon emphasized the willingness of the entrepreneur to assume the risk and to deal with uncertainty, thus he drew attention to the function of the entrepreneur and distinguished between the function of the entrepreneur and the owner who provided the money.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurs create something new and unique—they change or transmute value.
entrepreneurship: The supposition that entrepreneurship leads to economic growth is an interpretation of the residual in endogenous growth theory and as such is debated in academic economics.
entrepreneurship: Ultimately, many studies find that the effect of taxes on the probability of becoming an entrepreneur is small.
entrepreneurship: In the 2000s, the term "entrepreneurship" has been extended to include a specific mindset resulting in entrepreneurial initiatives, e.g.
entrepreneurship: There have been many breakthrough businesses that have come from millennial entrepreneurs, such as Mark Zuckerberg, who created Facebook.
entrepreneurship: With this research, scholars will be able to begin constructing a theory of the micro-foundations of entrepreneurial action.
entrepreneurship: These are organizations that have limited lifespans which are devoted to producing a singular objective or goal and get disbanded rapidly when the project ends.
entrepreneurship: The process of setting up a formal business, as well as any other unconventional modes of profit creation, are considered to be entrepreneurship.
entrepreneurship: Emerging frameworks include the Twelve Pillars of Entrepreneurship, developed by Dane Wagner and Dr.
entrepreneurship: Other research has concluded that a strong internal motivation is a vital ingredient for breakthrough innovation.
entrepreneurship: In recent decades, researchers have examined the social and psychological traits that characterize entrepreneurs, which could potentially help identify those who may become entrepreneurs in the future.
entrepreneurship: and Chinese business owners in Chinatowns across the U.S.
entrepreneurship: The reason is that college gives people additional skills that can be used within their business and to operate on a higher level than someone who only "runs" it.
entrepreneurship: Because of this, many studies have been done on the effects of taxes on entrepreneurs.
entrepreneurship: Csikszentmihalyi suggested that breakthrough innovations tend to occur at the hands of individuals in that state.
entrepreneurship: Within the increasingly global business environment a successful leader must be able to adapt and have insight into other cultures.
entrepreneurship: Csikszentmihalyi acknowledged that Montessori's prepared environment offers children opportunities to achieve flow.
entrepreneurship: She mentions that in modern organizations, human resources need to be combined to better capture and create business opportunities.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurship is the creation or extraction of economic value by identifying and commercializing opportunities to deliver products or services, a process that typically requires considerable initiation and bears risk.
entrepreneurship: The model's three steps entail the collection of different resources, the process of orchestrating them in the necessary manner and the subsequent creation of competitive advantage, value for customers, wealth and other benefits.
entrepreneurship: This is because both of them bring about change and growth in a person.
entrepreneurship: If the start-up becomes successful later on, these early equity financing deals could provide a windfall for the investors and a huge loss for the entrepreneur.
entrepreneurship: and Kouzes and Posner, the vision must be communicated through written statements and through in-person communication.
entrepreneurship: Government programs and services that promote entrepreneurship and support entrepreneurs and start-ups
Non-governmental organizations such as small-business associations and organizations that offer advice and mentoring to entrepreneurs (e.g.
entrepreneurship: Schumpeter believed that the equilibrium was imperfect.
entrepreneurship: While most entrepreneurial ventures start out as a small business, not all small businesses are entrepreneurial in the strict sense of the term.
entrepreneurship: Personality is that which informs what an individual will do when faced with a given situation.
entrepreneurship: Research on high-risk settings such as oil platforms, investment banking, medical surgery, aircraft piloting and nuclear-power plants has related distrust to failure avoidance.
entrepreneurship: Face Negotiation Theory describes how people from different cultures manage conflict negotiation to maintain "face".
entrepreneurship: The study of entrepreneurship reaches back to the work in the late 17th and early 18th centuries of Irish-French economist Richard Cantillon, which was foundational to classical economics.
entrepreneurship: Their study focused on two education levels, college degree and post-graduate degree.
entrepreneurship: However, in case of entrepreneurship research these notions are employed by academics too, but vaguely.
entrepreneurship: Some of the barriers to entry for entrepreneurs are the economy, debt from schooling, and the challenges of regulatory compliance.
entrepreneurship: Soft values like this might not go well with the short-term pressure on yearly and quarterly profits that publicly traded companies often experience from their owners.
entrepreneurship: According to Schumpeter, an entrepreneur is a person who is willing and able to convert a new idea or invention into a successful innovation.
entrepreneurship: Sloan; Walt Disney; Ray Kroc; Thomas J.
entrepreneurship: Alfred Marshall viewed the entrepreneur as a multi-tasking capitalist and observed that in the equilibrium of a completely competitive market there was no spot for "entrepreneurs" as economic-activity creators.
entrepreneurship: While the loan from French of the English-language word "entrepreneur" dates to 1762, the word "entrepreneurism" dates from 1902 and the term "entrepreneurship" also first appeared in 1902.
entrepreneurship: For example, an organization that aims to provide housing and employment to the homeless may operate a restaurant, both to raise money and to provide employment for the homeless people.
entrepreneurship: A supporting but invisible family are one of the success factors when being portrayed as a male entrepreneur in media.
entrepreneurship: Nascent entrepreneurship that emphasizes the series of activities involved in new venture emergence, rather than the solitary act of exploiting an opportunity.
entrepreneurship: These types of entrepreneurs diverge in fundamental ways in their self-views, social motivations and patterns of new firm creation.
entrepreneurship: This masculine image is also found when studying how male entrepreneurs are represented in media.
entrepreneurship: Researchers Schoon and Duckworth completed a study in 2012 that could potentially help identify who may become an entrepreneur at an early age.
entrepreneurship: For example, in North America a leader is often thought of as charismatic, but German culture frowns on such charisma due to the charisma of Nazi leader Adolf Hitler (1889–1945).
entrepreneurship: Tangible resources are material sources such as equipment, building, furniture, land, vehicle, machinery, stock, cash, bond and inventory that has a physical form and can be quantified.
entrepreneurship: A long tradition of academic research explores the experiences and strategies of ethnic entrepreneurs as they strive to integrate economically into mainstream U.S.
entrepreneurship: The inclusion of religion may transform entrepreneurship including a focus on opportunities other than profit as well as practices, processes and purpose of entrepreneurship.
entrepreneurship: Communicating a vision to followers may be the most important act of the transformational leader.
entrepreneurship: This is how one may take experiences as a leader for the use in the core of entrepreneurship decision-making.
entrepreneurship: Second, entrepreneurship requires differences between people, such as preferential access to certain individuals or the ability to recognize information about opportunities.
entrepreneurship: Social entrepreneurship typically attempts to further broad social, cultural, and environmental goals often associated with the voluntary sector in areas such as poverty alleviation, health care and community development.
entrepreneurship: Michelacci and Schivardi state there has been a rise in the number of self-employed people with a baccalaureate degree.
entrepreneurship: At times, profit-making social enterprises may be established to support the social or cultural goals of the organization but not as an end in itself.
entrepreneurship: Cantillon defined the term as a person who pays a certain price for a product and resells it at an uncertain price, "making decisions about obtaining and using the resources while consequently admitting the risk of enterprise".
entrepreneurship: Portfolio entrepreneurs make up an estimated 10 to 40 percent of business owners and are especially prominent in less developed economies.
entrepreneurship: Schumpeter (1934) demonstrated that the changing environment continuously provides new information about the optimum allocation of resources to enhance profitability.
entrepreneurship: Schumpeter was of the opinion that entrepreneurs shift the production-possibility curve to a higher level using innovations.
entrepreneurship: For countries like that, an authoritarian approach to management and leadership is more customary.
entrepreneurship: For Schumpeter, the changes and "dynamic economic equilibrium brought on by the innovating entrepreneur [were] the norm of a healthy economy".
entrepreneurship: Such ventures tend to be more successful, as the sons obtain industry knowledge through informal interactions with their fathers.
entrepreneurship: However, entrepreneurship was largely ignored theoretically until the late 19th and early 20th centuries and empirically until a profound resurgence in business and economics since the late 1970s.
entrepreneurship: bank loans, venture capital financing, angel investing and government and private foundation grants)
In the 2000s, usage of the term "entrepreneurship" expanded to include how and why some individuals (or teams) identify opportunities, evaluate them as viable, and then decide to exploit them.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurship employs what Schumpeter called "the gale of creative destruction" to replace in whole or in part inferior innovations across markets and industries, simultaneously creating new products, including new business models.
entrepreneurship: The offspring of baby boomers and early Gen Xers, this generation was brought up using digital technology and mass media.
entrepreneurship: Rank argues that entrepreneurs need to be able to intensify the advantages of their new product or service and downplay the disadvantages to persuade others to support their venture.
entrepreneurship: With the growing global market and increasing technology-use throughout all industries, the core of entrepreneurship and the decision-making has become an ongoing process rather than isolated incidents.
entrepreneurship: Some have argued that entrepreneurs should be considered "skilled cultural operators" that use stories to build legitimacy, and seize market opportunities and new capital.
entrepreneurship: Compelling visions provide employees with a sense of purpose and encourage commitment.
entrepreneurship: While Michelacci and Schivardi do not specifically determine characteristics or traits for successful entrepreneurs, they do believe that there is a direct relationship between education and success, noting that having a college knowledge does contribute to advancement in the workforce.
entrepreneurship: This is sometimes referred to as the functionalistic approach to entrepreneurship.
entrepreneurship: A 1977 survey of management scholars reported the top five pioneers in management ideas were: Frederick Winslow Taylor; Chester Barnard; Frank Bunker Gilbreth Sr.; Elton Mayo; and Lillian Moller Gilbreth.
entrepreneurship: Cesaire Assah Meh found that corporate taxes create an incentive to become an entrepreneur to avoid double taxation.
entrepreneurship: In this way, the term "entrepreneur" may be more closely associated with the term "startup".
entrepreneurship: The sociologist Paul DiMaggio (1988:14) has expanded this view to say that "new institutions arise when organized actors with sufficient resources [institutional entrepreneurs] see in them an opportunity to realize interests that they value highly".
entrepreneurship: Equity-free accelerators
Business plan/business pitch competitions for college entrepreneurs and others
Small Business Innovation Research grants from the U.S.
entrepreneurship: For Schumpeter, the entrepreneur did not bear risk: the capitalist did.
entrepreneurship: By the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries AD, the appellation "Abirempon" had formalized and politicized to embrace those who conducted trade from which the whole state benefited.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurship is defined by scholar V.
entrepreneurship: This institution was introduced in 1908 after a period of so-called freedom of trade (Gewerbefreiheit, introduced in 1871) in the German Reich.
entrepreneurship: Empirical studies suggest that female entrepreneurs possess strong negotiating skills and consensus-forming abilities.
entrepreneurship: Individuals who create these businesses are often referred to as "entrepreneurs".
entrepreneurship: Dating back to the time of the medieval guilds in Germany, a craftsperson required special permission to operate as an entrepreneur, the small proof of competence (Kleiner Befähigungsnachweis), which restricted training of apprentices to craftspeople who held a Meister certificate.
entrepreneurship: There are four criteria for becoming an entrepreneur.
entrepreneurship: Participating in a new business creation is a common activity among U.S.
entrepreneurship: In 1935 and in 1953, greater proof of competence was reintroduced (Großer Befähigungsnachweis Kuhlenbeck), which required craftspeople to obtain a Meister apprentice-training certificate before being permitted to set up a new business.
entrepreneurship: Many "high value" entrepreneurial ventures seek venture capital or angel funding (seed money) to raise capital for building and expanding the business.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurs also performed above average on aptitude tests.
entrepreneurship: or European society.
entrepreneurship: Cantillon considered the entrepreneur to be a risk taker who deliberately allocates resources to exploit opportunities to maximize the financial return.
entrepreneurship: Initially, economists made the first attempt to study the entrepreneurship concept in depth.
entrepreneurship: It did not immediately replace the horse-drawn carriage, but in time incremental improvements reduced the cost and improved the technology, leading to the modern auto industry.
entrepreneurship: A study conducted by the Census Bureau and two MIT professors, after compiling a list of 2.7 million company founders who hired at least one employee between 2007 and 2014, found the average age of a successful start-up founder when he or she founded it is 45.
entrepreneurship: Despite cultural differences, the successes and failures of entrepreneurs can be traced to how leaders adapt to local conditions.
entrepreneurship: Start-up accelerators
Angel investors
Venture capital investors
Equity crowdfunding
Hedge funds
Debt options open to entrepreneurs include:
entrepreneurship: business incubators and seed accelerators)
Entrepreneurship education and training programs offered by schools, colleges and universities
Financing (e.g.
entrepreneurship: Rockefeller; Andrew Carnegie, and Thomas Edison.
entrepreneurship: Cantillon defined the term first in his Essai sur la Nature du Commerce en Général, or Essay on the Nature of Trade in General, a book William Stanley Jevons considered the "cradle of political economy".
entrepreneurship: The distinction between the novice, serial and portfolio entrepreneurs is an example of behavior-based categorization.
entrepreneurship: Michelacci and Schivardi believe that for an individual to reach the full success they need to have education beyond high school.
entrepreneurship: First, there must be opportunities or situations to recombine resources to generate profit.
entrepreneurship: through entrepreneurship centers or websites)
Small-business advocacy organizations that lobby governments for increased support for entrepreneurship programs and more small business-friendly laws and regulations
Entrepreneurship resources and facilities (e.g.
entrepreneurship: However, millennials are less likely to engage in entrepreneurship than prior generations.
entrepreneurship: Jesper Sørensen wrote in 2010 that significant influences on the decision to become an entrepreneur include workplace peers and social composition.
entrepreneurship: In 1884, Michael Marks co-founded the retailer Marks & Spencer, and Isidore and Montague Gluckstein co-founded Lyons which became a staple of the High Street in the UK with their chain of teashops and in 1951 also pioneered the use of computers in business.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurial leaders must speak and listen to articulate their vision to others.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurial personality is associated with high self-efficacy, autonomy, innovativeness, internal locus of control, achievement motivation, optimism, and stress tolerance.
entrepreneurship: Indeed, project-based entrepreneurs face two critical challenges that invariably characterize the creation of a new venture: locating the right opportunity to launch the project venture and assembling the most appropriate team to exploit that opportunity.
entrepreneurship: Words like "leadership" and "entrepreneurship" do not always translate well into other cultures and languages.
entrepreneurship: Industries where project-based enterprises are widespread include: sound recording, film production, software development, television production, new media and construction.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurship involves creating something new with value by devoting the necessary time and effort, assuming financial and social risks, and receiving resulting monetary rewards.
entrepreneurship: Economic value creating both tangible and intangible sources are considered as entrepreneurial resources.
entrepreneurship: Donald Bruce and Mohammed Mohsin found that it would take a 50 percentage point drop in the top tax rate to produce a one percent change in entrepreneurial activity.
entrepreneurship: A person's response is triggered by his/her personality and the situation that is faced.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurs tend to have the ability to see unmet market needs and underserved markets.
entrepreneurship: This concept may be applied to a variety of organizations with different sizes, aims, and beliefs.
entrepreneurship: Jean-Baptiste Say also identified entrepreneurs as a driver for economic development, emphasizing their role as one of the collecting factors of production allocating resources from less to fields that are more productive.
entrepreneurship: As Sørensen stated: "When you meet others who have gone out on their own, it doesn't seem that crazy."
Entrepreneurs may also be driven to entrepreneurship by past experiences.
entrepreneurship: The Communication Accommodation Theory posits that throughout communication people will attempt to accommodate or adjust their method of speaking to others.
entrepreneurship: They determined that the best measures to identify a young entrepreneur are family and social status, parental role-modelling, entrepreneurial competencies at age 10, academic attainment at age 10, generalized self-efficacy, social skills, entrepreneurial intention and experience of unemployment.
entrepreneurship: Others have concluded that we need to speak of a 'narrative turn' in cultural entrepreneurship research.
entrepreneurship: A project entrepreneur who used a certain approach and team for one project may have to modify the business model or team for a subsequent project.
entrepreneurship: For Schumpeter, entrepreneurship resulted in new industries and in new combinations of currently existing inputs.
entrepreneurship: These scholars tend to focus on what the entrepreneur does and what traits an entrepreneur has.
entrepreneurship: "Flow" occurs when an individual forgets about the outside world due to being thoroughly engaged in a process or activity.
entrepreneurship: The term "ethnic entrepreneurship" refers to self-employed business owners who belong to racial or ethnic minority groups in Europe and North America.
entrepreneurship: The entrepreneur is a factor in and the study of entrepreneurship reaches back to the work of Richard Cantillon and Adam Smith in the late 17th and early 18th centuries.
entrepreneurship: Project entrepreneurs are exposed repeatedly to problems and tasks typical of the entrepreneurial process.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurs should be charismatic leaders, so they can communicate a vision effectively to their team and help to create a strong team.
entrepreneurship: Several scientifically validated frameworks have been developed to systematically classify entrepreneurial behaviors.
entrepreneurship: They found that the firms of distrusting entrepreneurs were more likely to survive than the firms of optimistic or overconfident entrepreneurs.
entrepreneurship: These endeavours can have the effect of both empowerment and emancipation.
entrepreneurship: Fauchart and Gruber have classified entrepreneurs into three main types: Darwinians, communitarians and missionaries.
entrepreneurship: Others deviate from the individualistic perspective to turn the spotlight on the entrepreneurial process and immerse in the interplay between agency and context.
entrepreneurship: She also found that marriage increased the probability of a person's becoming an entrepreneur.
entrepreneurship: The entrepreneur is willing to put his or her career and financial security on the line and take risks in the name of an idea, spending time as well as capital on an uncertain venture.
entrepreneurship: Research suggests that prior entrepreneurial experience improves the outcomes of subsequent ventures.
entrepreneurship: In recent years, entrepreneurship has been claimed as a major driver of economic growth in both the United States and Western Europe.
entrepreneurship: But before such a venture is actually established, the opportunity is just a venture idea.
entrepreneurship: The participative leadership style that is prevalent in the United States is considered disrespectful in many other parts of the world due to the differences in power distance.
entrepreneurship: and the Turks and North Africans in France.
entrepreneurship: Both Say and Cantillon belonged to French school of thought and known as the physiocrats.
entrepreneurship: In this treatment, the entrepreneur was an implied but unspecified actor, consistent with the concept of the entrepreneur being the agent of x-efficiency.
entrepreneurship: Classic cases include 
Jewish merchants and tradespeople in both regions, South Asians in the UK, Koreans, Japanese, and Chinese in the U.S.
entrepreneurship: Sørensen discovered a correlation between working with former entrepreneurs and how often these individuals become entrepreneurs themselves, compared to those who did not work with entrepreneurs.
entrepreneurship: This becomes knowledge management, which is "identifying and harnessing intellectual assets" for organizations to "build on past experiences and create new mechanisms for exchanging and creating knowledge".
entrepreneurship: One of the reasons that some entrepreneurs prefer to "bootstrap" is that obtaining equity financing requires the entrepreneur to provide ownership shares to the investors.
entrepreneurship: Regardless of the firm size, big or small, it can take part in entrepreneurship opportunities.
entrepreneurship: Resolving the second challenge requires assembling a collaborative team that has to fit well with the particular challenges of the project and has to function almost immediately to reduce the risk that performance might be adversely affected.
entrepreneurship: These driving characteristics allude to the presence of serial entrepreneurship in the region.
entrepreneurship: After the end of supply-side economics, entrepreneurship was supposed to boost the economy.
entrepreneurship: It has been argued, that creative destruction is largely responsible for the dynamism of industries and long-run economic growth.
entrepreneurship: In this sense, over time, the nascent venture can move towards being discontinued or towards emerging successfully as an operating entity.
entrepreneurship: Morgan; Alfred P.
entrepreneurship: In the 2000s, entrepreneurship was extended from its origins in for-profit businesses to include social entrepreneurship, in which business goals are sought alongside social, environmental or humanitarian goals and even the concept of the political entrepreneur.
entrepreneurship: Gümüsay suggests a three-pillars model to explain religious entrepreneurship: the pillars are the entrepreneurial, socio-economic/ethical, and religio-spiritual in the pursuit of value, values, and the metaphysical.
entrepreneurship: Similarly, Gudmundsson and Lechner found that distrust leads to higher precaution and therefore increases chances of entrepreneurial-firm survival.
entrepreneurship: the car) was transformational but did not require the development of dramatic new technology.
entrepreneurship: Feminist entrepreneurs are motivated to enter commercial markets by desire to create wealth and social change, based on the ethics of cooperation, equality and mutual respect.
entrepreneurship: Closely tied with principles of strategic management, this form of entrepreneurship is "concerned about growth, creating value for customers and subsequently creating wealth for owners".
entrepreneurship: Other cultures, as in some European countries, view the term "leader" negatively, like the French.
entrepreneurship: The state rewarded entrepreneurs who attained such accomplishments with Mena(elephant tail) which was the "heraldic badge"
entrepreneurship: remain unevenly distributed along racial/ethnic lines.
entrepreneurship: Whereas the entrepreneur might have philanthropic intentions as their main driving force.
entrepreneurship: While some entrepreneurs assume they can sense and figure out what others are thinking, the mass media plays a crucial role in shaping views and demand.
entrepreneurship: Other examples are the (related) studies by, on start-up event sequences.
entrepreneurship: He concluded that distrusting entrepreneurs are less likely to discount negative events and are more likely to engage control mechanisms.
entrepreneurship: The reasons were that distrusting entrepreneurs would emphasize failure-avoidance through sensible task selection and more analysis.
entrepreneurship: An entrepreneur needs a communication system that links the staff of their firm and connects the firm to outside firms and clients.
entrepreneurship: Hugh Rank's "intensify and downplay" communications model can be used by entrepreneurs who are developing a new product or service.
entrepreneurship: If someone has faced multiple work stoppages or has been unemployed in the past, the probability of becoming an entrepreneur increases Per Cattell's personality framework, both personality traits and attitudes are thoroughly investigated by psychologists.
entrepreneurship: In the decision to establish a new business, the ASEAN entrepreneur depends especially on their own long-term mental model of their enterprise, while scanning for new opportunities in the short-term.
entrepreneurship: Many Asian and Middle Eastern countries do not have "open door" policies for subordinates, who would never informally approach their managers/bosses.
entrepreneurship: Private equity options include:
entrepreneurship: For instance, nascent entrepreneurs often look for and purchase facilities and equipment; seek and obtain financial backing, form legal entities, organize teams; and dedicate all their time and energy to their business.
entrepreneurship: The term has also been used to discuss how people might use these opportunities to develop new products or services, launch new firms or industries, and create wealth.
entrepreneurship: Social composition can influence entrepreneurialism in peers by demonstrating the possibility for success, stimulating a "He can do it, why can't I?" attitude.
entrepreneurship: In this case, the innovation (i.e.
entrepreneurship: This is often problematic since the investor and the founder might have different incentives regarding the long-term goal of the company.
entrepreneurship: This refers to not only the act of entrepreneurship as managing or starting a business, but how one achieves entrepreneurial success  by such social processes, or by leadership skills.
entrepreneurship: Millennial business owners are well-equipped with knowledge of new technology and new business models and have a strong grasp of its business applications.
entrepreneurship: Flow can be compared to Maria Montessori's concept of normalization, a state that includes a child's capacity for joyful and lengthy periods of intense concentration.
entrepreneurship: In the 2010s, ethnic entrepreneurship has been studied in the case of Cuban business owners in Miami, Indian motel owners of the U.S.
entrepreneurship: Many are doing so by creating "for women, by women" enterprises.
entrepreneurship: According to a 2025 study, almost 75% of male entrepreneurs start a firm in an industry in the same or related industry as that of their father.
entrepreneurship: Some people may have "an innate ability" or quasi-statistical sense to gauge public opinion and market demand for new products or services.
entrepreneurship: Their research shows that the higher the education level the greater the success.
entrepreneurship: As an academic field, entrepreneurship accommodates different schools of thought.
entrepreneurship: Many small businesses are sole proprietor operations consisting solely of the owner—or they have a small number of employees—and many of these small businesses offer an existing product, process or service and they do not aim at growth.
entrepreneurship: Hill; Jack Welch; Cyrus McCormick; David Packard; Bill Hewlett; Cornelius Vanderbilt; and George Westinghouse.
entrepreneurship: In the field of economics, the term entrepreneur is used for an entity that has the ability to translate inventions or technologies into products and services.
entrepreneurship: For example, higher economic inequality tends to increase necessity-based entrepreneurship rates at the individual level.
entrepreneurship: In this context, the claim is made for a non-moral approach to looking at the history of piracy as a source of inspiration for entrepreneurship education as well as for research in entrepreneurship and business model generation.
entrepreneurship: This framework has a foundation in meta-analysis of over 1,000 studies, and well documented use within incubators and investment firms.
entrepreneurship: In 1881, Jewish brothers Ralph and Albert Slazenger founded the sports brand Slazenger, which has the longest-running sporting sponsorship in providing tennis balls to Wimbledon since 1902.
entrepreneurship: The Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB), developed by Icek Ajzen, identifies four key behavioral components: attitude toward entrepreneurship, subjective norms, perceived behavioral control, and entrepreneurial intention, with extensive validation across over 22 countries.
entrepreneurship: On the other hand, Reynolds et al.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurial Orientation (EO) encompasses five dimensions—innovativeness, risk-taking, proactiveness, competitive aggressiveness, and autonomy—validated through comprehensive analysis of over 62,000 citations across 822 publications.
entrepreneurship: argue that individuals are motivated to engage in entrepreneurial endeavours driven mainly by necessity or opportunity, that is individuals pursue entrepreneurship primarily owing to survival needs, or because they identify business opportunities that satisfy their need for achievement.
entrepreneurship: Beginning in 2008, an annual "Global Entrepreneurship Week" event aimed at "exposing people to the benefits of entrepreneurship" and getting them to "participate in entrepreneurial-related activities" was launched.
entrepreneurship: It has been studied within disciplines such as management, economics, sociology, and economic history.
entrepreneurship: Schumpeter's initial example of this was the combination of a steam engine and then current wagon-making technologies to produce the horseless carriage.
entrepreneurship: The entrepreneur is often seen as an innovator, a source of new ideas, goods, services, and business procedures; however, the central focus of entrepreneurship remains the pursuit of profit.
entrepreneurship: In contrast, entrepreneurial ventures offer an innovative product, process or service and the entrepreneur typically aims to scale up the company by adding employees, seeking international sales and so on, a process which is financed by venture capital and angel investments.
entrepreneurship: This approach is sometimes referred to as the processual approach, or the contextual turn/approach to entrepreneurship.
entrepreneurship: Some individuals acquire the new information before others and recombine the resources to gain an entrepreneurial profit.
entrepreneurship: In this case, a range of options is available including a wide variety of private and public equity, debt and grants.
entrepreneurship: Knight classified three types of uncertainty:
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurship may operate within an entrepreneurship ecosystem which often includes:
entrepreneurship: Chambers of commerce).
entrepreneurship: The concept is a recognised form of behaviour-based categorisation in entrepreneurship research, alongside the novice entrepreneur who founds a business for the first time.
entrepreneurship: It is a common mantra that one should learn from past mistakes, so leaders should take advantage of their failures for their benefit.
entrepreneurship: These taxonomies collectively provide comprehensive frameworks for understanding, measuring, and predicting entrepreneurial behaviors across different contexts and levels of analysis.
entrepreneurship: They also found that states with an inheritance or estate tax tend to have lower entrepreneurship rates when using a tax-based measure.
entrepreneurship: However, another study found that states with a more progressive personal income tax have a higher percentage of sole proprietors in their workforce.
entrepreneurship: in the form of social entrepreneurship, political entrepreneurship or knowledge entrepreneurship.
entrepreneurship: According to Baum et al.
entrepreneurship: Fourth, the entrepreneurial process requires the organization of people and resources.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurs exhibit positive biases towards finding new possibilities and seeing unmet market needs, and a tendency towards risk-taking that makes them more likely to exploit business opportunities.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurs are leaders willing to take risk and exercise initiative, taking advantage of market opportunities by planning, organizing and deploying resources, often by innovating to create new or improving existing products or services.
entrepreneurship: workers over the course of their careers".
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurial activities differ substantially depending on the type of organization and creativity involved.
entrepreneurship: What makes project-entrepreneurs distinctive from a theoretical standpoint is that they have to "rewire" these temporary ventures and modify them to suit the needs of new project opportunities that emerge.
entrepreneurship: Studies show that the psychological propensities for male and female entrepreneurs are more similar than different.
entrepreneurship: Thus quality and type of early education may influence entrepreneurial capability.
entrepreneurship: If investors have a significant stake in the company, they may as well be able to exert influence on company strategy, chief executive officer (CEO) choice and other important decisions.
entrepreneurship: Gudmundsson and Lechner extended this research to entrepreneurial firms.
entrepreneurship: In this observation, the nascent entrepreneur can be seen as pursuing an opportunity, i.e.
entrepreneurship: Many businesses need more capital than can be provided by the owners themselves.
entrepreneurship: To respond to the environment, corporate visions are becoming transnational in nature, to enable the organization to operate in or provide services/goods for other cultures.
entrepreneurship: Despite numerous success stories of Asian entrepreneurs, a recent statistical analysis of U.S.
entrepreneurship: Donald Bruce and John Deskins found literature suggesting that a higher corporate tax rate may reduce a state's share of entrepreneurs.
entrepreneurship: Another type of project entrepreneurship involves entrepreneurs working with business students to get analytical work done on their ideas.
entrepreneurship: A 2014 study at ETH Zürich found that compared with typical managers, entrepreneurs showed higher decision-making efficiency and a stronger activation in regions of frontopolar cortex (FPC) previously associated with explorative choice.
entrepreneurship: Successful entrepreneurs have the ability to lead a business in a positive direction by proper planning, to adapt to changing environments and understand their own strengths and weaknesses.
entrepreneurship: While entrepreneurship offers these groups many opportunities for economic advancement, self-employment and business ownership in the U.S.
entrepreneurship: A serial entrepreneur sometimes called a serial founder, is an individual who continuously funds new businesses throughout their career.
entrepreneurship: The idea that entrepreneurship leads to economic growth is an interpretation of the residual in endogenous growth theory and as such continues to be debated in academic economics.
entrepreneurship: Watson; Alexander Graham Bell; Eli Whitney; James J.
entrepreneurship: An investor will generally aim for a profitable exit and therefore promotes a high-valuation sale of the company or IPO to sell their shares.
entrepreneurship: Innovative entrepreneurs may be more likely to experience what psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi calls "flow".
entrepreneurship: In other words, the pursued opportunity is perceptual in nature, propped by the nascent entrepreneur's personal beliefs about the feasibility of the venturing outcomes the nascent entrepreneur seeks to achieve.
entrepreneurship: Kets de Vries has pointed out that distrusting entrepreneurs are more alert about their external environment.
entrepreneurship: Through the proper use of strategic management/leadership techniques and the implementation of risk-bearing entrepreneurial thinking, the strategic entrepreneur is, therefore, able to align resources to create value and wealth.
entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurs act as managers and oversee the launch and growth of an enterprise.
entrepreneurship: a possibility to introduce new services or products, serve new markets, or develop more efficient production methods in a profitable manner.
