ethiopia: Other scholars regard Dʿmt as the result of a union of Afroasiatic-speaking cultures of the Cushitic and Semitic branches; namely, local Agaw peoples and Sabaeans from Southern Arabia.
ethiopia: Over 58 M people (nearly half the population) do not have access to clean water as of 2023.
ethiopia: From his base in the central province of Shewa, Menelik set out to annex territories to the south, east, and west — areas inhabited by the Oromo, Sidama, Gurage, Welayta, and other peoples.
ethiopia: This hominid is estimated to have lived 3.2 million years ago.
ethiopia: National exams are conducted by the National Educational Assessment and Examination Agency (NEAEA).
ethiopia: Ethiopian literary works in this period mostly consisted of handwritten codexes (Amharic: ብራና, romanised: branna).
ethiopia: The legislation did lead to an increase in food production, although there is debate over the cause; it may be related to weather conditions more than the reform.
ethiopia: These unhealthy farmers have difficulty working the land and the productivity drops further.
ethiopia: The low productivity of agriculture leads to inadequate incomes for farmers, hunger, malnutrition and disease.
ethiopia: Together, these four groups make up about three-quarters of Ethiopia's population.
ethiopia: The literacy rate has increased in recent years: according to the 1994 census, the literacy rate in Ethiopia was 23.4%.
ethiopia: Completed in 2023, this Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam is slated to be the largest hydroelectric power station in Africa.
ethiopia: Coupled with OLA insurgency, the federal government relations with Fano militias, who previously allied to the government in the Tigray War, deteriorated in mid-2023, resulting in a war in the Amhara Region.
ethiopia: 1314–1344), the empire grew in prestige through territorial expansion against neighbouring Muslim territories.
ethiopia: English is the most widely spoken foreign language, the medium of instruction in secondary schools and all tertiary education; federal laws are also published in British English in the Federal Negarit Gazeta including the 1995 constitution.
ethiopia: As a result of the resolutions of the Council of Chalcedon, in 451 the Miaphysites, which included the vast majority of Christians in Egypt and Ethiopia, were accused of monophysitism and designated as heretics under the common name of Coptic Christianity.
ethiopia: Following the entry of Italy into World War II, British Empire forces, together with the Arbegnoch, liberated Ethiopia in the course of the East African campaign in 1941.
ethiopia: Afroasiatic-speaking communities make up the majority of the population.
ethiopia: In the 2024 Global Hunger Index (GHI), Ethiopia ranks 102nd out of 127 countries and has a score of 26.2, which indicates a serious level of hunger.
ethiopia: Kitfo, which originated among the Gurage people, is one of the country's most popular delicacies.
ethiopia: The most influential people in this era were Haile Gerima, Salem Mekuria, Yemane Demissie, and Teshome Gabriel.
ethiopia: According to the IMF, Ethiopia was one of the fastest growing economies in the world, registering over 10% economic growth from 2004 through 2009.
ethiopia: In August 2016, following protests and demonstrations in the Oromia Region, all access to the internet was shut down for a period of two days.
ethiopia: According to the Liddell-Scott Jones Greek-English Lexicon, the designation properly translates as burnt-face in noun form and red-brown in adjectival form.
ethiopia: First, in 1936–1941 during the Italian occupation under Mussolini's fascist government, and then from 1967 to 1975 when the populations of urban areas tripled.
ethiopia: The Gibe III hydroelectric project is so far the largest in the country with an installed capacity of 1,870 MW.
ethiopia: The territories that have frontiers with Ethiopia are Eritrea to the north and then, moving in a clockwise direction, Djibouti, Somalia, Kenya, South Sudan and Sudan.
ethiopia: The dominant Semitic-speaking groups, such as the Tigrayans, Amharas and Gurage, are distinguished by their feudal traditions, hierarchical structure and agrarian life.
ethiopia: Several notable musical artists emerged thereafter, such as Tilahun Gessesse, Alemayehu Eshete, Bizunesh Bekele, Muluken Melesse, and Mahmoud Ahmed.
ethiopia: This pattern slowed due to the 1975 Land Reform program instituted by the government, which provided incentives for people to stay in rural areas.
ethiopia: The Army of the Ethiopian Empire was also able to defeat the Egyptians in 1876 at Gura, led by Ethiopian Emperor Yohannes IV.
ethiopia: In 1767, Ras Mikael Sehul, a regent in Tigray Province, seized Gondar, killing the child Iyoas I in 1769, the reigning emperor, and installed 70-year-old Yohannes II.
ethiopia: Tewodros II began a process of consolidation, centralisation, and state-building that would be continued by succeeding emperors.
ethiopia: As of 2026, it has around 138 million inhabitants, making it the 10th-most populous country in the world.
ethiopia: At least as of 2024, Ethiopia is one of the most rapidly urbanising countries in the world, although its population is still largely rural.
ethiopia: Aksum would later at times extend its rule into Yemen on the other side of the Red Sea.
ethiopia: Manufacturing and service providers often place themselves in competitive programming in order to advance innovative and technological solutions through in-house arenas.
ethiopia: Tradition holds that the name Ethiopia (ኢትዮጵያ) comes from the name of the first King of Ethiopia, Ethiop, or Ethiopis.
ethiopia: Ge'ez now serves as the liturgical language of both the Ethiopian and Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Churches.
ethiopia: Other main export commodities are khat, gold, leather products, and oilseeds.
ethiopia: In 2019, additional Middle Stone Age projectile weapons were found at Aduma, dated 100,000–80,000 years ago, in the form of points considered likely to belong to darts delivered by spear throwers.
ethiopia: One example is the imperial fortress Fasil Ghebbi, which is influenced by a mix of these styles.
ethiopia: The historian Herodotus used the appellation to denote those parts of Africa south of the Sahara that were then known within the Ecumene (habitable world).
ethiopia: Following the Hellenic and biblical traditions, the Monumentum Adulitanum, a 3rd-century inscription belonging to the Aksumite Empire, indicates that Aksum's ruler governed an area that was flanked to the west by the territory of Ethiopia and Sasu.
ethiopia: However, the unregulated and undocumented nature of this trade runs risks, such as allowing disease to spread more easily across national borders.
ethiopia: Additionally, skeletons of Homo sapiens idaltu were found at a site in the Middle Awash valley.
ethiopia: Most people in the country speak Afroasiatic languages of the Cushitic or Semitic branches.
ethiopia: Ethiopia, officially the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (FDRE), is a landlocked country located in the Horn of Africa region of East Africa.
ethiopia: His rule was marked by the consolidation of territorial acquisitions from earlier rulers, the oversight of the construction of numerous churches and monasteries, the active promotion of literature and art, and the strengthening of central imperial authority.
ethiopia: Contrary, the majority vote of HoPR have the right to sanction removal in federal judiciary level or state council in cases of state judges.
ethiopia: It also has authority over international economic crimes relating to Ethiopia as a whole.
ethiopia: According to UN estimations in 2013, life expectancy had improved substantially over time, with male life expectancy reported to be 56 years and for women 60 years.
ethiopia: Ethiopia has twelve semi-autonomous administrative regions that have the power to raise and spend their own revenues.
ethiopia: Freedom House, who has worked on Ethiopia since 2008, indicates that Ethiopia is "Not Free" state due to very poor fundamental rights (political and civil liberties) recorded in both EPRDF and Prosperity Party regimes.
ethiopia: The first multiparty election took place in May 1995, which was won by the EPRDF.
ethiopia: The NISS, serving both as a spy agency and domestic law enforcement agency, has national jurisdiction for counterterrorism, and foreign-related counterespionage activities and protecting national security.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian films with the highest international box office grosses include Selanchi, Difret, Lamb, Prince of Love, and Lambadina.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is a global centre of avian diversity.
ethiopia: Like the Julian calendar, the sixth epagomenal day—which in essence is a leap day—is added every four years without exception on 29 August of the Julian calendar, six months before the Julian leap day.
ethiopia: In response, the remnant of the Aksumite population shifted into the southern region and establish the Zagwe dynasty, changing its capital to Lalibela.
ethiopia: Today, Ethiopia maintains strong relations with China, Israel, Mexico, Turkey and India as well as neighbouring countries.
ethiopia: Ashlar masonry was an archetype of South Arabian architecture with the most architectural structure similarity.
ethiopia: This had a negative effect on Ethiopia's economy, and a border conflict between the two countries would continue until 2018.
ethiopia: Ethiopia registered the fastest economic growth under Meles Zenawi's administration.
ethiopia: The music of Ethiopia is extremely diverse, with each of the country's 80 ethnic groups being associated with unique sounds.
ethiopia: The House of Federation is chosen by the regional councils whereas MPs of the HoPR are elected directly, in turn, they elect the president for a six-year term and the prime minister for a 5-year term.
ethiopia: Abebe Bikila became the first athlete from a Sub-Saharan country to win an Olympic gold medal when he won the Marathon at the 1960 Rome Olympic Games in a world record time of 2:15:16.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is known for the use of traditional medicine since millennia.
ethiopia: The government of Ethiopia recognises 6 patriotic and public holidays and 9 major religious holidays.
ethiopia: This is rooted partly in South Arabian culture as a result of return migration, while the southern Cushitic (Oromo and Somali) are strong adherents to egalitarianism and pastoral life.
ethiopia: The average annual rainfall is approximately 1,200 mm (47 in).
ethiopia: Ethiopia has four levels of administratively divided: regions, zones, districts (woredas) and wards (kebele).
ethiopia: It was the fastest-growing non-oil-dependent African economy in the years 2007 and 2008.
ethiopia: Urban populations have continued to grow with an 8.1% increase from 1975 to 2000.
ethiopia: Due to Ethiopia's location between the Middle East and Africa, it has long been in the middle of Eastern and Western politics and has been subject to foreign invasions.
ethiopia: Tihlo (ጥሕሎ), a type of dumpling prepared from roasted barley flour and originating from the Tigray Region, is now very popular in Amhara and spreading further south.
ethiopia: A lot of anger and distrust sometimes results in public protests.
ethiopia: With a focused investment in public infrastructure and industrial parks, Ethiopia is attempting to address its structural problems by becoming a hub for light manufacturing in Africa.
ethiopia: Numerous scientists have contributed to these projects, including Kitaw Ejigu, Mulugeta Bekele, Aklilu Lemma, Gebisa Ejeta, and Melaku Worede.
ethiopia: The average annual temperature in Addis Ababa is 16 °C (60.8 °F), with daily maximum temperatures averaging 20–25 °C (68.0–77.0 °F) throughout the year, and overnight lows averaging 5–10 °C (41.0–50.0 °F).
ethiopia: The early 20th century appearance with spectacle was around 1909 and embraced by documentary or biographical films.
ethiopia: Aksumite stelae commonly used single blocks and rocks.
ethiopia: Accompanied by pervasive internal and intercommunal conflicts in the 21st century, the Ethiopian government resorted to authoritarian structure, severing democratic and human rights.
ethiopia: In the late 19th century, Ethiopia repelled foreign invasions from both Egypt and Italy, most notably defeating an Italian invasion at the Battle of Adwa in 1896.
ethiopia: Once elected, the executive power has no authority to remove them from office.
ethiopia: Ethiopia recovered it after it began receiving massive military aid from the Soviet bloc countries.
ethiopia: By 1924, the band had become Ethiopia's first official orchestra, but after World War II, several similar bands emerged, such as the Imperial Bodyguard Band, Army Band, and Police Band.
ethiopia: Life expectancy is better in cities compared to rural areas, but there have been significant improvements witnessed throughout the country as of 2016, the average Ethiopian living to be 62.2 years old, according to a UNDP report.
ethiopia: Ever since, Egypt has discouraged almost all projects in Ethiopia that sought to use the local Nile tributaries.
ethiopia: The 2050 Ethiopia population forecast is 225 M.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian months begin on the same days as those of the Coptic calendar, but their names are in Ge'ez.
ethiopia: This new demonym was subsequently rendered as ḥbs ('Aḥbāsh) in Sabaic and as Ḥabasha in Arabic.
ethiopia: In 2019 a law was passed allowing expatriate Ethiopians to invest in Ethiopia's financial service industry.
ethiopia: Traditional Ethiopian cuisine employs no pork, as it is forbidden in Ethiopian Orthodox Christian and Islamic faiths; Ethiopian Orthodox Christians also fast from meat on Wednesdays, Fridays, and the days leading up to Easter and Christmas.
ethiopia: The defining characteristic of qene is sem-ena-werq (Amharic: ሰምና ወርቅ, romanised: säməna wärq, lit.
ethiopia: Christianity is the most widely professed faith in the country, with the largest denomination being the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, followed by Islam and a small percentage of traditional faiths.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian Highlands cover most of the country and have a climate which is generally considerably cooler than other regions at similar proximity to the Equator.
ethiopia: On 10 March 1889, Yohannes IV was killed by the Sudanese Khalifah Abdullah's army whilst leading his army in the Battle of Gallabat.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church is part of Oriental Orthodoxy.
ethiopia: Lucy's taxonomic name refers to the region where the discovery was made.
ethiopia: The "Bete Medhane Alem" or "House of our Saviour" is one of the 12 churches in Lalibela built under Emperor Lalibela I.
ethiopia: It is also believed that there was a connection between Egyptian and Ethiopian churches.
ethiopia: It may have been a trading or military colony in alliance with the Ethiopian civilisation of Dʿmt or some other proto-Axumite state.
ethiopia: With the private sector growing slowly, designer fashion and leather products like bags are becoming a big export business, with Taytu becoming the first luxury designer label in the country.
ethiopia: Opinion within Ethiopia turned against Haile Selassie, owing to the worldwide 1973 oil crisis causing a sharp increase in gasoline prices starting on 13 February 1974, leading to student and worker protests.
ethiopia: Ethiopia has several local calendars.
ethiopia: The culture of Ethiopia is diverse, formed by the interaction of Semitic, Cushitic and less populous Nilo-Saharan speaking peoples since the first millennium BCE.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement, and the G24 and G77.
ethiopia: This had the effect of discouraging external financing of hydropower and irrigation projects in western Ethiopia, thereby impeding water resource-based economic development projects.
ethiopia: In 1952, Haile Selassie orchestrated a federation with Eritrea.
ethiopia: Additional small-scale export products include cereals, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, potatoes, and hides.
ethiopia: Historically, throughout the African continent, wildlife populations have rapidly declined due to logging, civil wars, pollution, poaching, and other human factors.
ethiopia: Various other festivals and holidays are celebrated across the country, including Irreechaa celebrated by the Oromo community.
ethiopia: In 980 BC, the Kingdom of D'mt extended its realm over Eritrea and the northern region of Ethiopia, while the Kingdom of Aksum maintained a unified civilisation in the region for 900 years.
ethiopia: The Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) merged with other ethnically based opposition movements in 1989, to form the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF).
ethiopia: Recent initiatives have sought to document and regulate this trade.
ethiopia: For several decades, EBC served as the main source for mass media until the late 2000s, when EBS TV launched as the first private television channel.
ethiopia: Au de Menilek was the first film directed by Charles Martel.
ethiopia: At least as early as c.
ethiopia: He achieved this with the help of Ras Gobana Dacche's Shewan Oromo militia, which occupied lands that had not been held since Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi's war, as well as other areas that had never been under Ethiopian rule.
ethiopia: From 1885 to 1889 (under Yohannes IV), Ethiopia joined the Mahdist War allied to Britain, the Ottomans, and Egypt against the Sudanese Mahdist State.
ethiopia: The country comprises 12 regions and two city administrations under these regions.
ethiopia: Amharic was once the language of primary school instruction, but has been replaced in many areas by regional languages such as Oromo, Somali or Tigrinya.
ethiopia: With temperatures fairly uniform year round, the seasons in Addis Ababa are largely defined by rainfall: a dry season from October to February, a light rainy season from March to May, and a heavy rainy season from June to September.
ethiopia: In rural areas the government also provides non-timber fuel sources and access to non-forested land to promote agriculture without destroying forest habitat.
ethiopia: The national capital and largest city, Addis Ababa, lies several kilometres west of the East African Rift that splits the country into the African and Somali tectonic plates.
ethiopia: Following the dissolution of the Derg in 1991, the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) dominated the country with a new constitution and ethnic-based federalism.
ethiopia: Within Ethiopia is a vast highland complex of mountains and dissected plateaus divided by the Great Rift Valley, which runs generally southwest to northeast and is surrounded by lowlands, steppes, or semi-desert.
ethiopia: Traditional singing in Ethiopia presents diverse styles of polyphony (heterophony, drone, imitation, and counterpoint).
ethiopia: The Ethiopian judiciary consists of a dual system with two court structures: the federal and state courts.
ethiopia: Gondar's power declined after the death of Iyasu I in 1706.
ethiopia: Ethiopia was historically a trading nation that exported goods such as gold, ivory, exotic animals, and incense.
ethiopia: After Amda Seyon's successful eastern campaigns, most of the Muslim principalities in the Horn of Africa came under the suzerainty of the Ethiopian Empire.
ethiopia: Sanitation is the most pressing need in the city, with most of the population lacking access to waste treatment facilities.
ethiopia: The collapse of Marxism–Leninism during the revolutions of 1989 coincided with the Soviet Union stopping aid to Ethiopia altogether in 1990.
ethiopia: However, the service sector represents the largest portion of the GDP.
ethiopia: As of 2016, total electricity production was 11.15 TWh and consumption was 9.062 TWh.
ethiopia: Many other economic activities depend on agriculture, including marketing, processing, and export of agricultural products.
ethiopia: The country is a founding member of the UN, and hosts the headquarters of the African Union Commission and many other global non-governmental organisations focused on Africa, also becoming a full member of BRICS in 2024.
ethiopia: Aksum came to an end in 960 when Queen Gudit defeated the last king of Aksum.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is also considered one of the earliest sites of the emergence of anatomically modern humans, Homo sapiens.
ethiopia: Most poor families (75%) share their sleeping quarters with livestock, and 40% of children sleep on the floor, where nighttime temperatures average 5 degrees Celsius in the cold season.
ethiopia: There were 0.166 TWh of electricity exported, 0 kWh imported, and 2.784 GW of installed generating capacity.
ethiopia: Most modern historians consider this civilisation to be a native Ethiopian one, although in earlier times many suggested it was Sabaean-influenced because of the latter's hegemony of the Red Sea.
ethiopia: Modern Ethiopian foreign relations began under Emperor Tewodros II, who during his reign sought to re-establish a cohesive Ethiopian state, but was thwarted by the British expedition of 1868.
ethiopia: By the 16th century, an influx of migration by ethnic Oromo into northern parts of the region fragmented the empire's power.
ethiopia: Addis Ababa has its own university as well as its own secondary schools.
ethiopia: Only 65% of rural households in Ethiopia consume the World Health Organisation's (WHO's) minimum standard of food per day (2,200 kcal), with 42% of children under five years old being underweight.
ethiopia: Abiy Ahmed became PM following Hailemariam's resignation.
ethiopia: Renting out land for a maximum of twenty years is allowed and this is expected to ensure that land goes to the most productive user.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is an ecologically diverse country, ranging from the deserts along the eastern border to the tropical forests in the south to extensive Afromontane in the northern and southwestern parts.
ethiopia: The national GER was 104.8% for boys, 97.8% for girls and 101.3% across both sexes.
ethiopia: Ayele Berkerie explains: According to an Ethiopian tradition, the term Ethiopia is derived from the word Ethiopis, a name of the Ethiopian king, the seventh in the ancestral lines.
ethiopia: Aksumite architecture continued to flourish in the 4th century CE.
ethiopia: This has been attributed to Christian Ethiopians' desire during medieval times, due to their blockage from Jerusalem by Muslim conquests, to replicate their own "new Jerusalem" at a national level.
ethiopia: The Tomb of the False Door, built for Aksumite emperors, used the monolithic style.
ethiopia: Evidence of some of the earliest known stone-tipped projectile weapons (a characteristic tool of Homo sapiens), the stone tips of javelins or throwing spears, were discovered in 2013 at the Ethiopian site of Gademotta, which date to around 279,000 years ago.
ethiopia: Access to education in Ethiopia has improved significantly.
ethiopia: Italian minister Federico Ciccodicola offered cinematic artefacts to Emperor Menelik II.
ethiopia: The oldest of these local fossil finds, the Omo remains, were excavated in the southwestern Omo Kibish area and have been dated to the Middle Paleolithic, around 200,000 years ago.
ethiopia: The Federal Supreme Proclamation granted three subject matter principles: laws, parties and place to federal court jurisdiction, first "cases arising under the Constitution, federal laws and international treaties", second over "parties specified by federal laws".
ethiopia: Approximately three million people were enrolled in primary school in 1994–95, but by 2008–09, primary enrolment had risen to 15.5 million – an increase of over 500%.
ethiopia: By 2015, the literacy rate had further increased, to 49.1% (57.2% male and 41.1% female).
ethiopia: During the 16th and 17th centuries, Ethiopia saw major diplomatic contact with Portugal, which was primarily religious in nature.
ethiopia: With the construction of various new dams and growing hydroelectric power projects around the country, Ethiopia also plans to export electric power to its neighbours.
ethiopia: However, a construction boom in both the private and the public sector has led to a dramatic improvement in living standards in major cities, particularly in Addis Ababa.
ethiopia: Two trans-African automobile routes pass through Ethiopia: the Cairo-Cape Town Highway and the N'Djamena-Djibouti Highway.
ethiopia: Metshafe Aksum or the Ethiopian Book of Aksum identifies Itiopis as the twelfth king of Ethiopia and the father of Aksumawi.
ethiopia: In 2009, Ethiopia hosted a population of refugees and asylum seekers numbering approximately 135,200.
ethiopia: Inflation surged to 40% in August 2011 because of loose monetary policy, large civil service wage increase in early 2011, and high food prices.
ethiopia: Scrolls were typically produced by debtera, non-ordained clerical experts on exorcism and healings.
ethiopia: Some of its agencies maintain regional ties with UNECA and the AU.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian government has at times intentionally shut down internet service in the country or restricted access to certain social media sites during periods of political unrest.
ethiopia: Ethiopia faces numerous challenges, including high rates of poverty, human rights violations, widespread ethnic discrimination, and a literacy rate of 60%.
ethiopia: To ensure this, the President and Vice President of the Supreme Court are appointed by Parliament on the nomination of Prime Minister.
ethiopia: Sunnis form the majority of Muslims with non-denominational Muslims being the second largest group of Muslims, and the Shia are a minority.
ethiopia: The average family size is six or seven, living in a 30 square metre mud and thatch hut, with less than two hectares of land to cultivate.
ethiopia: This led to regnal conflict between Mentewab's Quaregnoch and the Wollo group led by Wubit.
ethiopia: Two Chinese railway companies under the Belt and Road Initiative between China and Ethiopia had supplied funds to develop 12 of the total 56 kilometres.
ethiopia: Some of these were intended for magical purposes, such as the ketab, which is used for magical defence.
ethiopia: Meskel is a Christian holiday celebrating the discovery of the True Cross.
ethiopia: He launched campaigns against his Muslim adversaries to the east, resulting in a significant shift in the balance of power in favour of the Christians for the next two centuries.
ethiopia: Frumentius became the first bishop of Aksum.
ethiopia: It is based on the older Alexandrian or Coptic calendar, which in turn derives from the Egyptian calendar.
ethiopia: EPRDF forces advanced on Addis Ababa in May 1991, and Mengistu fled the country and was granted asylum in Zimbabwe.
ethiopia: Kana TV is the most popular TV channel in Ethiopia.
ethiopia: Since then, the country was seen as redundant by world powers until the opening of Suez Canal due to an influence of Mahdist War.
ethiopia: In June 2017, the government shut down access to the internet for mobile users during a period that coincided with the administration of university entrance examination.
ethiopia: Emigration from Ethiopia is primarily directed towards Europe, including Italy, the United Kingdom and Sweden, as well as Canada and Australia, while emigration to the Middle East is primarily to Saudi Arabia and Israel.
ethiopia: He was an extra-biblical son of Cush, son of Ham, said to have founded the city of Axum.
ethiopia: Another notable form of writing is the protective (or magic) scroll.
ethiopia: In 1931, Haile Selassie endowed Ethiopia with its first constitution in emulation of Imperial Japan's 1890 Constitution.
ethiopia: Public education is free at primary levels and usually offers between age 7 and 12.
ethiopia: president to visit Ethiopia in July 2015; the speech he gave to the African Union (AU) during this trip focused on combatting Islamic terrorism.
ethiopia: The WHO estimates that "a majority of maternal fatalities and disabilities could be prevented if deliveries were to take place at well-equipped health centres, with adequately trained staff".
ethiopia: This period was interrupted by several incursions into the South Arabian protectorate, including Jewish Dhu Nuwas of the Himyarite Kingdom and the Aksumite–Persian wars.
ethiopia: The former includes the Oromo language, spoken by the Oromo, and Somali, spoken by the Somalis; the latter includes Amharic, spoken by the Amhara, and Tigrinya, spoken by the Tigrayans.
ethiopia: The Italians used the time between the signing of the treaty and its ratification by the Italian government to expand their territorial claims.
ethiopia: "Coffee provides a livelihood for close to 15 million Ethiopians, 16% of the population.
ethiopia: Poetry is popular in Ethiopia.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is a strategic partner of Global War on Terrorism and African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA).
ethiopia: Ethiopia is a federal parliamentary republic, wherein the Prime Minister is the head of government, and the President is the head of state but with largely ceremonial powers.
ethiopia: In East Africa, over 95% of cross-border trade is through unofficial channels.
ethiopia: Despite the urban living conditions, residents of Addis Ababa are more financially secure than those living in peasant associations, owing to their increased educational and economic opportunities.
ethiopia: The sole internet service provider is the national telecommunications firm Ethio telecom.
ethiopia: The majority of this population came from Somalia (approximately 64,300 persons), Eritrea (41,700) and Sudan (25,900).
ethiopia: The first 16mm black-and-white film dedicated to coronation of Emperor Zewditu, then the coronation of Emperor Haile Selassie, was filmed.
ethiopia: It has the largest water reserves in Africa.
ethiopia: The independence of Ethiopia was interrupted by the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, beginning when it was invaded by Italy in early October 1935, and by subsequent Italian rule of the country (1936–1941) after Italian victory in the war.
ethiopia: In 1579, the Ottoman Empire's attempt to expand from a coastal base at Massawa during the Ottoman conquest of Habesh was defeated.
ethiopia: Human impact threatens many species, with greater threats expected as a result of climate change induced by greenhouse gases.
ethiopia: These artists also employed the traditional style called tizita.
ethiopia: According to the Ethiopian national census of 2007, the Oromo are the largest ethnic group in Ethiopia, at 34.4% of the nation's population.
ethiopia: UN taskforces in Ethiopia deal primarily with humanitarian issues and development.
ethiopia: DJ Rophnan was renowned for pioneering EDM in the country after releasing his debut album Reflection in 2018.
ethiopia: Festivals including Addis International Film Festival and the Ethiopian International Film Festival showcase amateur and professional filmmakers' works.
ethiopia: The predominant climate type is tropical monsoon, with wide topographic-induced variation.
ethiopia: Islam in Ethiopia dates back to the founding of the religion in 622 when a group of Muslims were counselled by Muhammad to escape persecution in Mecca.
ethiopia: Anatomically modern humans emerged from modern-day Ethiopia.
ethiopia: In May 1998, a border dispute with Eritrea led to the Eritrean–Ethiopian War, which lasted until June 2000 and cost both countries an estimated $1 million a day.
ethiopia: There are on average seven hours of sunshine per day.
ethiopia: However, Ethiopia is in the process of constructing a large 6,450 MW hydroelectric dam on the Blue Nile river.
ethiopia: Sunnis are largely Shafi'is or Salafis; there are also many Sufis there.
ethiopia: This Greek name was borrowed into Amharic as ኢትዮጵያ, ʾĪtyōṗṗyā.
ethiopia: Employed as an abugida for several of the country's languages, it first came into usage in the 6th and 5th centuries BC as an abjad to transcribe the Semitic Ge'ez language.
ethiopia: He is also credited with building seven stone bridges over the Blue Nile River.
ethiopia: He had signed the Treaty of Wuchale with Italy in May 1889, by which Italy would recognise Ethiopia's sovereignty so long as Italy could control an area north of Ethiopia (now part of modern Eritrea).
ethiopia: The oldest hominid discovered to date in Ethiopia is the 4.2 million-year-old Ardipithecus ramidus (Ardi) found by Tim D.
ethiopia: Haile Selassie also played a leading role in the formation of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU).
ethiopia: The kingdom adopted the name "Ethiopia" during the reign of Ezana in the 4th century.
ethiopia: However, the success of the National Mental Health Strategy has been limited.
ethiopia: A lunar-stellar calendar, this Oromo calendar relies on astronomical observations of the moon in conjunction with seven particular stars or constellations.
ethiopia: As of July 2016, there are around 4.29 million people who have internet access at their home as compared to a quarter of a million users a decade before that.
ethiopia: US$25 million was raised through the expensive event, both through the cost of attending and donations.
ethiopia: Under Abiy Ahmed, Ethiopia is experiencing democratic backsliding since 2019 marked by turbulent period of internal conflict, jailing opposition group members and limiting media freedom.
ethiopia: Meles died on 20 August 2012 in Brussels, where he was being treated for an unspecified illness.
ethiopia: Since April 2019, the Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has promoted Beautifying Sheger, a development project that aims to reduce the negative effects of climate change – among other things – in the capital city Addis Ababa.
ethiopia: Emperor Tewodros II ended the Zemene Mesafint at the beginning of his reign in 1855, marking the reunification and modernisation of Ethiopia.
ethiopia: In spite of fast growth in recent years, Ethiopia's GDP per capita is one of the lowest in the world, and the economy faces a number of serious structural problems.
ethiopia: This strategy mandated that mental health be integrated into the primary health care system.
ethiopia: Production is overwhelmingly by small-scale farmers and enterprises, and a large part of commodity exports are provided by the small agricultural cash-crop sector.
ethiopia: The majority of scholars today propose that the Afroasiatic family developed in northeast Africa because of the higher diversity of lineages in that region, a telltale sign of linguistic origin.
ethiopia: In addition, Ethiopia also launched a 70 kg ET-RSS1 multi-spectral remote sensing satellite in December 2019.
ethiopia: As of 2012, hydroelectric plants represented around 88.2% of the total installed electricity generating capacity.
ethiopia: The first traditional medicinal remedy was claimed to be derived from this catastrophe, but the exact source is debated.
ethiopia: The first cinema was introduced in 1898, three years after the first world film was projected.
ethiopia: Ethiopia covers a land area of 1,104,300 km2 (426,400 sq mi).
ethiopia: The peasant associations face a cycle of poverty.
ethiopia: Medieval architecture also influenced architecture of the later 19th- and 20th-century era.
ethiopia: Beginning in 1555, Portuguese Jesuits attempted to develop Roman Catholicism as the state religion.
ethiopia: Sixteen species are endangered or critically endangered.
ethiopia: The disciples subsequently migrated to Abyssinia via modern-day Eritrea, which was at the time ruled by Ashama ibn-Abjar, a pious Christian emperor.
ethiopia: Earlier Aksumite period art was most prominently stone carvings as evidenced in their stelae, though there is no surviving Christian art from this era.
ethiopia: Following Zewditu's death on 2 November 1930, he succeeded her as emperor.
ethiopia: Branna are prepared by gathering parchment leaves and sewing them together.
ethiopia: Embarking from present-day Guji and Borena Zone, the Oromos were largely motivated by several folkloric conceptions—beginning with Moggaasaa and Liqimssa—many of whom related to their raids.
ethiopia: After the collapse of Aksum in 960, the Zagwe dynasty ruled the north-central parts of Ethiopia.
ethiopia: The electrification rate for the total population in 2016 was 42%, with 85% coverage in urban areas and 26% coverage in rural areas.
ethiopia: The size may vary considerably depending on the number of volumes and manner of preparation.
ethiopia: These include increases in temperature and changes in precipitation.
ethiopia: This toponym was derived from the Latinised form of the ancient Habash.
ethiopia: In 2020, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed warned that "No force can stop Ethiopia from building a dam.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is often considered as the birthplace of coffee since cultivation began in the 9th century.
ethiopia: Although the Ethiopian economy has experienced consistent growth, in terms of per capita income and the Human Development Index the country remains among the poorest in Africa.
ethiopia: Although conditions are drastically better in cities, all of Ethiopia suffers from poverty and poor sanitation.
ethiopia: Based on the most recent data from 2019, 68.7% of the population is affected by multidimensional poverty and an additional 18.4% are vulnerable to it.
ethiopia: Farmers in the eastern part of the country, where a warming climate is already impacting production, have struggled in recent years, and many are currently reporting largely failed harvests as a result of a prolonged drought".
ethiopia: In all cases, judges cannot be removed from their duty unless they retired, violated disciplinary rules, gross incompatibility, or inefficiency to unfit due to ill health.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is the most populous landlocked country in the world.
ethiopia: Population growth, migration, and urbanisation are all straining both governments' and ecosystems' capacity to provide people with basic services.
ethiopia: At the beginning of the 20th century, around 420,000 km2 (or 35%) of Ethiopia's land was covered by trees, but recent research indicates that forest cover is now approximately 11.9% of the area.
ethiopia: At 1,104,300 square kilometres (426,372.61 sq mi), Ethiopia is the world's 26th-largest country, comparable in size to Bolivia.
ethiopia: According to the Democracy Index published by the United Kingdom-based Economist Intelligence Unit in late 2010, Ethiopia was an "authoritarian regime", ranking as the 118th-most democratic out of 167 countries.
ethiopia: The majority of Ethiopian Muslims are Sunni, thus it is celebrated on the 12th day.
ethiopia: Ethiopia had dropped 13 places on the list since 2008, and the 2010 report attributed the drop to the government's crackdown on opposition activities, media, and civil society before the 2010 parliamentary election, which the report argued had made Ethiopia a de facto one-party state.
ethiopia: The World Factbook (2025 ed.).
ethiopia: In 2015, the World Bank highlighted that Ethiopia had witnessed rapid economic growth with real domestic product (GDP) growth averaging 10.9% between 2004 and 2014.
ethiopia: This program encouraged the formation of peasant associations, large villages based on agriculture.
ethiopia: 'wax and gold'), a literary device where two metaphorical words, one with an obvious meaning (wax) and the other more obscure (the gold), are paired to layer hidden meanings within the text.
ethiopia: Ethiopia loses an estimated 1,410 km2 of natural forests each year due to firewood collection, conversion to farmland, overgrazing, and use of forest wood for building material.
ethiopia: The country had a 2018 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 7.16/10, ranking it 50th globally out of 172 countries.
ethiopia: The House of Federation is the upper chamber of the bicameral legislature with 108 seats, and the lower chamber is the House of Peoples' Representatives (HoPR) with 547 seats.
ethiopia: The WHO's 2006 World Health Report gives a figure of 1,936 physicians (for 2003), which comes to about 2.6 per 100,000.
ethiopia: Notable incident includes the Merawi massacre in early 2024, which left 50 to 100 residents dead in Merawi town in Amhara.
ethiopia: In April 1993, Eritrea gained independence from Ethiopia after a national referendum.
ethiopia: However, poverty in Ethiopia fell from 44% to 29.6% during 2000–2011, according to the World Bank.
ethiopia: Notably, government-built condominium housing complexes have sprung up throughout the city, benefiting close to 600,000 individuals.
ethiopia: Organisations such as SOS and Farm Africa are working with the federal government and local governments to create a system of forest management.
ethiopia: Dallol, in the Danakil Depression in this eastern zone, has the world's highest average annual temperature of 34 °C (93.2 °F).
ethiopia: The two federal-level city administrations are Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa.
ethiopia: Land distribution and administration is considered an area where corruption is institutionalised, and facilitation payments as well as bribes are often demanded when dealing with land-related issues.
ethiopia: A 1983–85 famine affected around 8 million people, resulting in 1 million dead.
ethiopia: Defence Day, on the 26th of October, celebrates servicemen, and is the last holiday in the Gregorian calendar.
ethiopia: Birth rates, infant mortality rates, and death rates are lower in cities than in rural areas due to better access to education, medicines, and hospitals.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is Africa's second biggest maize producer.
ethiopia: Haddis Alemayehu wrote one of the first examinations of realism, as well as a romantic tragedy novel, and influenced the Ethiopian intellectual community.
ethiopia: Thousands of animal bones, hundreds of stone tools, and ancient fireplaces were discovered, revealing a diet that featured giant mole rats.
ethiopia: Ethiopia had 58 airports as of 2012, and 61 as of 2016.
ethiopia: Post-1995, Ethiopia's politics has been liberalised which promotes all-encompassing reforms to the country.
ethiopia: Those who are expected to give birth at home have elderly women serve as midwives who assist with the delivery.
ethiopia: Other holidays include Mawlid, which begins on the 12th or 17th day of the third month of the Islamic calendar depending on the denomination of the celebrants.
ethiopia: However, in the Christian Bible, the Greek term Aithiops does occur, referring to a servant of the Kandake, the queen of Kush.
ethiopia: Since 1930, a relatively  small Ethiopian Catholic Church has existed in full communion with Rome, with adherents making up less than 1% of the total population.
ethiopia: After the execution of 60 former government and military officials, the new Provisional Military Administrative Council abolished the monarchy in March 1975 and established Ethiopia as a Marxist-Leninist state.
ethiopia: Other judges are nominated by the Federal Judicial Administration Council (FJAC) on the basis of transparent criteria and the Prime Minister's recommendation for appointment in the HoPR.
ethiopia: On 15 February 2018, Hailemariam resigned as PM, following years of protests and a state of emergency.
ethiopia: Today, its economy is based on mixed, market-oriented principles.
ethiopia: Fasilides' reign solidified imperial power, relocating the capital to Gondar in 1636, marking the beginning of the "Gondarine period".
ethiopia: By the end of the seventies, Mengistu presided over the second-largest army in all of sub-Saharan Africa, as well as a formidable air force and navy.
ethiopia: It is not eaten with utensils, but instead the injera is used to scoop up the entrées and side dishes.
ethiopia: Later, the Ethiopian–Adal War (1529–1543) weakened the empire and opened the way for the Oromo expansion.
ethiopia: Habitat destruction is a factor that leads to endangerment.
ethiopia: According to the 2007 National Census, Christians make up 62.8% of the country's population, Muslims 33.9%, practitioners of traditional faiths 2.6%, and other religions 0.6%.
ethiopia: Principal crops include coffee, legumes, oilseeds, cereals, potatoes, sugarcane, and vegetables.
ethiopia: Known locally as Dinkinesh, the specimen was found in the Awash Valley of Afar Region in 1974 by Donald Johanson, and is one of the most complete and best-preserved adult Australopithecine fossils ever uncovered.
ethiopia: In 1875 and 1876, Ottoman and Egyptian forces, accompanied by many European and American advisors, twice invaded Abyssinia but were initially defeated.
ethiopia: After a power struggle in 1977, Mengistu Haile Mariam gained undisputed leadership of the Derg.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian Biotechnology Institute is responsible for environmental and climate conservation.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian army's origins and military traditions date back to the earliest history of Ethiopia.
ethiopia: Unlike rural children, 69% of urban children are enrolled in primary school, and 35% are eligible to attend secondary school.
ethiopia: Many NGOs are working to solve this problem; however, most are far apart, uncoordinated, and working in isolation.
ethiopia: Timkat ('Epiphany'), celebrated on 19 or 20 January, marks the baptism of Jesus Christ by John the Baptist.
ethiopia: In 1936, Italy annexed Ethiopia, building infrastructure to connect major cities, and a dam providing power and water.
ethiopia: press releases and reports on Ethiopia)
ethiopia: In 1987, the Derg dissolved itself and established the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (PDRE) upon the adoption of the 1987 Constitution of Ethiopia.
ethiopia: In 1994, a new constitution was written that established a parliamentary republic with a bicameral legislature and a judicial system.
ethiopia: Though it differs among ethnic groups, traditional medicine often implements herbs, spiritual healing, bone-setting and minor surgical procedures in treating disease.
ethiopia: When changes to a habitat occur rapidly, animals do not have time to adjust.
ethiopia: Ethiopia has 14 major rivers flowing from its highlands, including the Nile.
ethiopia: Under Emperor Susenyos I, Roman Catholicism became the state religion of the Ethiopian Empire in 1622.
ethiopia: Today manuscripts resembling primitive codexes are still used where parchment leaves are convenient for writing.
ethiopia: Cross-border trade by pastoralists is often informal and beyond state control and regulation.
ethiopia: Films began to be filmed in the Amharic language in the 2000s.
ethiopia: Its total population has grown substantially in recent decades, rising from 38.1 million in 1983 to 135 M in 2025.
ethiopia: Fana TV has been the largest TV network since its launch in 2017.
ethiopia: Ethiopia has Sub-Saharan Africa's longest basketball tradition, as it established a national basketball team in 1949.
ethiopia: Ethiopia only has 3 branches inside the military, consisting of the Army, Airforce, and a Navy although it is landlocked.
ethiopia: As with many other aspects of Ethiopian culture and tradition, tastes in music and lyrics are strongly linked with those in neighbouring Eritrea, Somalia, Djibouti, and Sudan.
ethiopia: During his rule, Fasilides constructed the iconic royal fortress, Fasil Ghebbi, built forty-four churches, and revived Ethiopian art.
ethiopia: As there is no land ownership, infrastructural projects are most often simply done without asking the land users, which then end up being displaced and without a home or land.
ethiopia: Former U.S.
ethiopia: As people moved from rural areas to the cities, there were fewer people to grow food for the population.
ethiopia: Recent development of the floriculture sector means Ethiopia is poised to become one of the top flower and plant exporters in the world.
ethiopia: The Land Reform Act was meant to increase agriculture since food production was not keeping up with population growth over the period of 1970–1983.
ethiopia: Ethiopia pages – U.S.
ethiopia: Archaic Homo sapiens fossils excavated at the Jebel Irhoud site in Morocco have since been dated to an earlier period, about 300,000 years ago, while Omo-Kibish I (Omo I) from southern Ethiopia is the oldest anatomically modern Homo sapiens skeleton currently known (196 ± 5 kya).
ethiopia: The Ethiopian Highlands are the largest continuous mountain ranges in Africa, and the Sof Omar Caves contains the largest cave on the continent.
ethiopia: For example, the burden of depression is estimated to have increased 34.2% from 2007 to 2017.
ethiopia: Before the Zemene Mesafint, Emperor Iyoas I had introduced the Oromo language (Afaan Oromo) at court, replacing Amharic.
ethiopia: The most well-known hominid discovery is Australopithecus afarensis (Lucy).
ethiopia: It experiences a mild climate year round.
ethiopia: The Aksumite King Ezana eventually conquered Nubia the following century, and the Aksumites thereafter appropriated the designation "Ethiopians" for their own kingdom.
ethiopia: Most major cities and tourist sites in Ethiopia lie at a similar elevation to Addis Ababa and have a comparable climate.
ethiopia: In the capital city of Addis Ababa, 55% of the population used to live in slums.
ethiopia: The same report also indicated that the female literacy rate had increased from 27 to 39% from 2004 to 2011, and the male literacy rate had increased from 49 to 59% over the same period for persons 10 years and older.
ethiopia: Ethiopia was ranked 134th in the Global Innovation Index in 2025.
ethiopia: In the 1960s and 1970s, traditional-style modern Ethiopian music was revived in what is known as the "Golden Age".
ethiopia: The UN prioritises sustainable development in Ethiopia, including fighting poverty, sustainable economic growth, climate change policy, educational and healthcare provisions, increasing employment, and environmental protection.
ethiopia: Around 316 AD, Frumentius and his brother Edesius from Tyre accompanied their uncle on a voyage to Ethiopia.
ethiopia: For example, a pocket size codex is 45 cm in length, but are heavier in weight.
ethiopia: It is also a common custom to feed others with one's own hands—a tradition referred to as gursha.
ethiopia: 850, the name Aethiopia also occurs in many translations of the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) in allusion to Nubia.
ethiopia: The first epidemic that occurred in Ethiopia was in 849, causing the Aksumite Emperor Abba Yohannes to be evicted due to "God's punishment for misdeeds".
ethiopia: The Western intervention in Ethiopian art began in the 20th century, though artists maintained a traditional Ethiopian character in their work.
ethiopia: Many of these birds feed on butterflies, like the Bicyclus anynana.
ethiopia: All languages enjoy equal state recognition in the 1995 Constitution of Ethiopia.
ethiopia: During the 1980s, the Ethiopic character set was computerised.
ethiopia: In the following May, the government held "Dine for Sheger", a fundraising event in order to cover some of the $1 billion needed through the public.
ethiopia: The Lalibela civilisation was largely influenced by Aksumite architecture, but the layer of stones or wood is quite different for some dwellings.
ethiopia: This decision caused an uprising by the Orthodox populace.
ethiopia: After the conquest of Kingdom of Kush in 330, the Aksumite territory reached its peak between the 5th and 6th centuries.
ethiopia: Baalu Girma and Haddis Alemayehu have been noted as the most influential novelists in Ethiopian history.
ethiopia: Ethiopian athletes have won many Olympic gold medals in track and field, most of them in long distance running.
ethiopia: In 1632, Emperor Fasilides halted Roman Catholic state administration, restoring Orthodox Tewahedo as the state religion.
ethiopia: Central Intelligence Agency.
ethiopia: With an annual budget of over $1 billion, it is the largest armed force in East Africa, and one of the largest in Africa.
ethiopia: However, deforestation is a major concern for Ethiopia as studies suggest loss of forest contributes to soil erosion, loss of nutrients in the soil, loss of animal habitats, and reduction in biodiversity.
ethiopia: The threatened species in Ethiopia can be broken down into three categories (based on IUCN ratings): critically endangered, endangered, and vulnerable.
ethiopia: The National Mental Health Strategy, published in 2012, introduced the development of policy designed to improve mental health care in Ethiopia.
ethiopia: In 2008 and 2011, Ethiopia's growth performance and considerable development gains were challenged by high inflation and a difficult balance of payments situation.
ethiopia: During the Derg regime, these artists were prohibited to perform in the country and often forced into exile in North America and Europe, causing them to incorporate jazz and funk influences.
ethiopia: President Barack Obama was the first incumbent U.S.
ethiopia: Many Ethiopians have been forced to leave their homes and travel as far as the Gulf, Southern Africa and Europe.
ethiopia: More than 856 bird species have been recorded in Ethiopia, twenty of which are endemic to the country.
ethiopia: Musicians of this style include Roha Band, Walias Band, and Ethio Stars.
ethiopia: It shares borders with Eritrea to the north, Djibouti to the northeast, Somalia to the east, Kenya to the south, South Sudan to the west, and Sudan to the northwest.
ethiopia: After several failures, they sent several missionaries in 1603, including the most influential, Spanish Jesuit Pedro Paez.
ethiopia: Arabic, which also belongs to the Afroasiatic family, is likewise spoken in some areas.
ethiopia: This, along with the influx of Italians and labourers, was the major cause of rapid growth during this period.
ethiopia: The Derg, a Soviet-backed military junta, took power in 1974 after deposing Emperor Haile Selassie and the Solomonic dynasty, and ruled the country for nearly 17 years amidst the Ethiopian Civil War.
ethiopia: The best-known Ethiopian actors include Selam Tesfaye, Fryat Yemane, Hanan Tarik, Mahder Assefa, Amleset Muchie, and Ruth Negga.
ethiopia: Modern music developed further in the 1990s and 2000s.
ethiopia: Other Islamic holidays include Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha.
ethiopia: Relations between the federal government and Tigray deteriorated rapidly, and in November 2020, Ethiopia began a military offensive in Tigray in response to attacks on army units stationed there, marking the beginning of the Tigray war.
ethiopia: For his leadership, despite opposition from more traditional elements of society, Menelik II was heralded as a national hero.
ethiopia: In addition, the Supreme Court can perform circuit hearings in established five states at any states of federal levels or "area designated for its jurisdiction" if deemed "necessary for the efficient rendering of justice".
ethiopia: The best-known Ethiopian cuisine consists of various types of thick meat stews, known as wat in Ethiopian culture, and vegetable side dishes served on top of injera, a large sourdough flatbread made of teff flour.
ethiopia: Ethiopia produces more coffee than any other nation on the continent.
ethiopia: His father is identified as Kush, while his grandfather is known as Kam.In the 15th-century Ge'ez Book of Axum, the name is ascribed to a legendary individual called Ityopp'is.
ethiopia: There is a great diversity of terrain with wide variations in climate, soils, natural vegetation and settlement patterns.
ethiopia: The remaining electrical power was generated from fossil fuels (8.3%) and renewable sources (3.6%).
ethiopia: In this period, the most popular artists were Aster Aweke, Gigi and Teddy Afro.
ethiopia: The abolition of feudalism, increased literacy, nationalisation, and sweeping land reform including the resettlement and villagisation from the Ethiopian Highlands became priorities.
ethiopia: According to Abba Bahrey, the earliest expansion occurred under Emperor Dawit II (luba Melbah), when they encroached to Bale before invading Adal Sultanate.
ethiopia: Since the community burns livestock manure as fuel, rather than plowing the nutrients back into the land, the crop production is reduced.
ethiopia: Almost universally in Ethiopia, it is common to eat from the same dish in the middle of the table with a group of people.
ethiopia: The earliest mention of the term is found in the works of Homer, where it is used to refer to two people groups, one in Africa and one in the east from eastern Turkey to India.
ethiopia: Exports from Ethiopia in the 2009–2010 financial year totalled US$1.4 billion.
ethiopia: Other writing systems have also been used over the years by different Ethiopian communities.
ethiopia: A large portion of users in the country access the internet through mobile devices.
ethiopia: Between 1769 and 1855, Ethiopia witnessed the Zemene Mesafint or "Age of Princes," a period of isolation.
ethiopia: The first public holiday of the Gregorian calendar year is Adwa Victory Day on 2 March, commemorating Emperor Menelik II's victory over the attempted but failed colonisation efforts of Italy in 1896.
ethiopia: Ethiopian literature traces back to the Aksumite period in the 4th century, mostly religious motifs.
ethiopia: According to some anthropologists, the first Afroasiatic-speaking populations arrived in the region during the ensuing Neolithic era from the family's proposed urheimat ("original homeland") in the Nile Valley, or the Near East.
ethiopia: From 2018, regional and ethnically based factions carried out armed attacks in multiple ongoing wars throughout Ethiopia.
ethiopia: The most widely known is the Ethiopian calendar, also known as the Ge'ez calendar, and written with the ancient Ge'ez script, one of the oldest alphabets still in use in the world.
ethiopia: Since then, Ethiopia has suffered from prolonged and unsolved inter-ethnic clashes and political instability marked by authoritarianism.
ethiopia: Although the reason for the restriction was not confirmed by the government, the move was similar to a measure taken during the same period in 2016, after a leak of test questions.
ethiopia: During the reign of Emperor Zara Yaqob, the Ethiopian Empire reached its pinnacle.
ethiopia: Ethiopia also has the second-largest number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Africa.
ethiopia: Sabaean influence is now thought to have been minor, limited to a few localities, and disappearing after a few decades or a century.
ethiopia: In less elevated regions, particularly the lower lying Ethiopian xeric grasslands and shrublands in the east of Ethiopia, the climate can be significantly hotter and drier.
ethiopia: The modern capital, Addis Ababa, is situated on the foothills of Mount Entoto at an elevation of around 2,400 m (7,900 ft).
ethiopia: Under Emperor Amda Seyon I (r.
ethiopia: The unofficial trade of live cattle, camels, sheep, and goats from Ethiopia sold to Somalia, Djibouti, and Kenya generates an estimated total value of US$250–300 million annually (100 times more than the official figure).
ethiopia: In 2007 it was estimated to be 39% (male 49.1% and female 28.9%).
ethiopia: He reclaimed lands, and exiled Jesuits to Fremona.
ethiopia: Ethiopian music uses a distinct modal system that is pentatonic, with characteristically long intervals between some notes.
ethiopia: In peasant associations, daily life is a struggle to survive.
ethiopia: Executive power is exercised by the government and federal legislative power vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament.
ethiopia: In addition, doro wat (Amharic: ዶሮ ወጥ) and tsebehi derho (Tigrinya: ጽብሒ ድርሆ), are other popular dishes, originating from northwestern Ethiopia.
ethiopia: Meles' government was consistently re-elected; however, these results were heavily criticised by international observers, and denounced by the opposition as fraudulent.
ethiopia: Ethiopia has 926 km of electrified 1,435 mm (4 ft 8+1⁄2 in) standard gauge railways, 656 km for the Addis Ababa–Djibouti Railway between Addis Ababa and the Port of Djibouti (via Awash) and 270 km for the Awash–Hara Gebeya Railway between Addis Ababa and the twin cities of Dessie/Kombolcha.
ethiopia: Stretching from Gojjam to the Somali Coast in Zeila.
ethiopia: The Shewan usurper, Yekuno Amlak, overthrew the dynasty in 1270 at the Battle of Ansata, inaugurating the Ethiopian Empire and the Solomonic dynasty – asserting its lineage through Aksumite legitimacy by the biblical Solomon and Queen of Sheba, and Menelik I was the first emperor.
ethiopia: Girma has critiqued the communist government in the 80s in Ethiopia in his works.
ethiopia: He came to power after Lij Iyasu was deposed, and undertook a nationwide modernisation campaign from 1916 when he was made a Ras and Regent (Inderase) for the Empress Regnant Zewditu, and became the de facto ruler of the Ethiopian Empire.
ethiopia: In 980 BC, Dʿmt was established in present-day Eritrea and the northern part of Ethiopia in the Tigray region, and is widely believed to be the successor state to Punt.
ethiopia: Derivatives of this are used in some languages that use loanwords from Arabic, for example in Malay Habsyah.
ethiopia: In 575, the Aksumites besieged and retook Sana'a following the assassination of its governor Sayf ibn Dhī Yazan.
ethiopia: When the vessel stopped at a Red Sea port, the natives killed all the travellers except the two brothers, who were taken to the court as slaves.
ethiopia: In the 1st century AD, the Kingdom of Aksum emerged in what is now Tigray Region and Eritrea.
ethiopia: Ethiopia lost its sovereignty in 1936, when Italy under Benito Mussolini invaded during the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, and following Ethiopia's defeat, Italian East Africa was established.
ethiopia: In 2013–14, there was a significant boost in gross enrolment across all regions.
ethiopia: The most prominent public holiday is Enkutatash (Ethiopian new year celebration) on 11 or 12 September.
ethiopia: The ancient Hebrew texts identify Nubia instead as Kush.
ethiopia: It lies between the 3rd parallel north and the 15th parallel north and longitudes 33rd meridian east and 48th meridian east.
ethiopia: The Amhara represent 27.0% of the country's inhabitants, while Somalis and Tigrayans represent 6.2% and 6.1% of the population respectively.
ethiopia: Emperor Lalibela I commissioned large portions of the Lalibela church complex, and it was named after him.
ethiopia: With carbon dioxide emissions in 2010 of 6,494,000 tonnes, Ethiopia contributes just 0.02% to the annual human-caused release of greenhouse gases.
ethiopia: The Arabic form of this term (al-Ḥabasha) is the etymological basis of "Abyssinia", the former name of Ethiopia in English and other European languages.
ethiopia: The main sports in Ethiopia are track and field (particularly long distance running) and football.
ethiopia: Other traditions from the Kafficho, Sidamo, and Afar peoples are also present.
ethiopia: Most poets recount past events, social unrests, poverty and famine.
ethiopia: Ethiopia's foreign relations with both Sudan and Egypt are somewhat fraught owing to the effects the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam project, which was escalated in 2020, would have on water rights in the region.
ethiopia: Other Afroasiatic languages with a significant number of speakers include the Cushitic Sidamo, Afar, Hadiyya and Agaw languages, as well as the Semitic Gurage languages, Harari, Silt'e, and Argobba languages.
ethiopia: As Christianity was introduced, its iconography was partly influenced by Byzantine art.
ethiopia: Ethiopia has 31 endemic species of mammals.
ethiopia: The nation is a land of geographical contrasts, ranging from the vast fertile west, with its forests and numerous rivers, to the world's hottest settlement of Dallol in its north.
ethiopia: The federal government decided that elections for 2020 (later being rescheduled to 2021) be cancelled, due to health and safety concerns about COVID-19.
ethiopia: Moreover, numerous private channels were founded in 2016, contributing to the growth of privately owned media companies in the country.
ethiopia: The Tigray Region's TPLF opposed this, and proceeded to hold elections anyway on 9 September 2020.
ethiopia: These problems are exacerbated by the shortage of trained doctors and nurses and health facilities.
ethiopia: Ethiopia, in roughly its current form, began under the reign of Menelik II, who was Emperor from 1889 until his death in 1913.
ethiopia: Dated to approximately 160,000 years ago, they may represent an extinct subspecies of Homo sapiens, or the immediate ancestors of anatomically modern humans.
ethiopia: A 17-year-long civil war, along with severe drought, negatively affected Ethiopia's environmental conditions, leading to even greater habitat degradation.
ethiopia: Agriculture constitutes around 85% of the labour force.
ethiopia: Qene is the most used element of Ethiopian poetry – it is regarded as a form of Amharic poetry, though the term may also refer to any poem.
ethiopia: This would also incremented facility built by a French company funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB).
ethiopia: In 1941, during World War II, it was liberated by the British Army, and its full sovereignty was restored in 1944.
ethiopia: They were given positions of trust by the monarch, and they converted members of the royal court to Christianity.
ethiopia: The literacy rate in Addis Ababa is 82% as of 2008.
ethiopia: The Ethiopia national football team was one of four founding members of the Confederation of African Football and won the Africa Cup of Nations in 1962.
ethiopia: On the basis of Article 78 of the 1994 Ethiopian Constitution, the judiciary is completely independent of the executive and the legislature.
ethiopia: Ethiopia also has the fifth largest inventory of cattle.
ethiopia: Lake Tana in the north is the source of the Blue Nile.
ethiopia: Ethiopia has many species listed as critically endangered and vulnerable to global extinction.
ethiopia: He made a historic visit to Eritrea in 2018, ending the state of conflict between the two countries, and was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2019.
ethiopia: BBC Ethiopia Profile
World Bank Ethiopia Summary Trade Statistics
Key Development Forecasts for Ethiopia from International Futures.
ethiopia: Climate change in Ethiopia threatens food security and the economy, which is agriculture based.
ethiopia: This contributes to the spread of illness through unhealthy water.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is one of the eight fundamental and independent centres of origin for cultivated plants in the world.
ethiopia: Deputy PM Hailemariam Desalegn was appointed as a new Prime Minister until the 2015 elections, and remained so afterwards with his party in control of every parliamentary seat.
ethiopia: It and the EFP both enforce federal laws domestically and cooperate internationally to enforce border regulations and peoples and products coming in and out in Ethiopia.
ethiopia: After a number of peace and mediation proposals in the intervening years, Ethiopia and the Tigrayan rebel forces agreed to a cessation of hostilities on 2 November 2022.
ethiopia: In 1976–78, up to 500,000 were killed as a result of the Red Terror, a violent political repression campaign by the Derg against various opposition groups.
ethiopia: He dissolved this in 1962 and annexed Eritrea, resulting in the Eritrean War of Independence.
ethiopia: Only a minority of Ethiopians are born in hospitals, while most are born in rural households.
ethiopia: The year (Gregorian calendar) starts with Ethiopian Christmas on 7 January.
ethiopia: Scrolls being the original medium for Ethiopia literature is highly disputed, as there is overwhelming evidence that Ge'ez language books were written in codex form.
ethiopia: Chechebsa, marqa, chukko, michirra, and dhanga are the most popular dishes from the Oromo people.
ethiopia: The Greek name Αἰθιοπία (from Αἰθίοψ, 'an Ethiopian') is a compound word, later explained as derived from the Greek words αἴθω and ὤψ (eithō "I burn" + ōps "face").
ethiopia: There is faint evidence that the Aksumites were associated with the Queen of Sheba, via their royal inscription.
ethiopia: Timkat is recognised by the United Nations as part of its "Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists" which designate important cultural and religious holidays.
ethiopia: By March 2022, as many as 500,000 people had died as a result of violence and famine.
ethiopia: Ethiopian education is governed by the Ministry of Education and uses a 4+4+2+2 system; elementary education consists of eight years, divided into two cycles of four years, and four years of secondary education, divided into two stages of two years.
ethiopia: Traditionally, lyricism in Ethiopian songwriting is strongly associated with views of patriotism or national pride, romance, friendship, and a unique type of memoire known as tizita.
ethiopia: Saint Yared, a 6th-century Aksumite composer, is widely regarded as the father of the traditional music of Eritrea and Ethiopia, creating liturgical music of the Ethiopian and Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church.
ethiopia: Since 2015, EBC has upgraded its studios with modernised transmission.
ethiopia: Radio broadcasting began in 1935, and television service began in 1962 with the assistance of British firm Thomson and Emperor Haile Selassie.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is a multi-ethnic state with over 80 different ethnic groups.
ethiopia: In English, and generally outside of Ethiopia, the country was historically known as Abyssinia.
ethiopia: The growing influence of the Oromo at the Gondarine court ultimately contributed to the fragmentation known as Zemene Mesafint, beginning in 1769.
ethiopia: Exports are almost entirely agricultural commodities (with the exception of gold exports), and coffee is the largest foreign exchange earner.
ethiopia: Since the landholdings are so small, farmers cannot allow the land to lie fallow, which reduces soil fertility.
ethiopia: According to a study published in the journal Science, this dwelling is proof of the earliest permanent human occupation at high altitude yet discovered.
ethiopia: It is approximately seven years and three months behind the Gregorian calendar because of an alternate calculation in determining the date of the Annunciation of Jesus.
ethiopia: This trade helps lower food prices, increase food security, relieve border tensions, and promote regional integration.
ethiopia: The dry season is the sunniest time of the year, though even at the height of the rainy season in July and August there are still usually several hours per day of bright sunshine.
ethiopia: Another calendrical system was developed around 300 BC by the Oromo people.
ethiopia: It is by far the largest Christian denomination, although a number of P'ent'ay (Protestant) churches have recently gained ground.
ethiopia: These books usually contain pictorial representations of the life and death of religious figures, juxtaposed with other significant texts.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation (EBC), formerly known as ETV, is a state-owned public service broadcaster.
ethiopia: Among these Muslim entities was the Sultanate of Ifat.
ethiopia: This land degradation reduces the production of fodder for livestock, which causes low milk yields.
ethiopia: Arts of Ethiopia were largely influenced by Christian iconography throughout much of their history, such as illuminated manuscripts, painting, crosses, icons and other metalwork such as crowns.
ethiopia: This persisted until gada of Meslé.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian constitution specifies that rights to own land belong only to "the state and the people", but citizens may lease land for up to 99 years, but are unable to mortgage or sell.
ethiopia: Historians have speculated that archaic codexes existed in Ethiopia.
ethiopia: The best known philosophical revival was in the early modern period, such as Zera Yacob (1599–1692) and his student Walda Heywat, who wrote Hatata (Inquiry) in 1667 as an argument for the existence of God.
ethiopia: The FDRE Constitution vested federal judicial authority to the Federal Supreme Court which can overturn and review decisions of subordinate federal courts; itself has regular division assigned for fundamental errors of law.
ethiopia: The latter include Bakri Sapalo's script for Oromo.
ethiopia: As early as 2000 BC, other Semitic speakers were living in Ethiopia and Eritrea where Ge'ez developed.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is also a Vavilov centre of diversity for domesticated crops, including enset, coffee, okra, and teff.
ethiopia: In the 4th century, the Ethiopian empire was one of the first in the world to officially adopt Christianity as the state religion.
ethiopia: Insurrections against authoritarian rule sprang up, particularly in the northern regions of Eritrea and Tigray.
ethiopia: This polity's capital was located at Yeha in what is now northern Ethiopia.
ethiopia: Ethiopia has close historical ties with all three of the world's major Abrahamic religions.
ethiopia: The EFP mostly polices non-international and non-espionage crimes, including civil rights matters and domestic financial crimes.
ethiopia: Ethiopia delivers roughly 81% of water volume to the Nile through the river basins of the Blue Nile, Sobat River and Atbara.
ethiopia: The ratio of the Christian to Muslim population has largely remained stable when compared to previous censuses.
ethiopia: Among these, Semitic speakers often collectively refer to themselves as the Habesha people.
ethiopia: In royal inscriptions, it employed both Ge'ez and Greek, but the latter was discontinued in 350.
ethiopia: The overall number of tertiary students in both public and private institutions exploded by more than 2,000%, from 34,000 in 1991 to 757,000 in 2014, per UIS data.
ethiopia: Ethiopia's population is highly diverse, containing over 80 different ethnic groups, the four largest of which are the Oromo, Amhara, Somali and Tigrayans.
ethiopia: Under Emperor Menelik II, it also expanded its territory, remaining independent during the Scramble for Africa and establishing its current borders.
ethiopia: In the Gondarine period, the architecture of Ethiopia was influenced by Baroque, Arab, Turkish and Gujarati Indian styles independently taught by Portuguese emissaries in the 16th and 17th centuries.
ethiopia: The Ethiopians pronounce Ethiopia እትዮጵያ with a Sades or the sixth sound እ as in incorporate and the graph ጰ has no equivalent in English or Latin graphs.
ethiopia: Modern music traces back to the reign of Emperor Haile Selassie, when 40 Armenian orphans called Arba Lijoch arrived from Jerusalem to Addis Ababa.
ethiopia: A coin dated to 324 shows that Ethiopia was the second country to officially adopt Christianity (after Armenia did so in 301), although the religion may have been at first confined to court circles; it was the first major power to do so.
ethiopia: Since 2018, there are two national exams: the Ethiopian General Secondary Education Certificate Examination (EGSECE), also known as the Grade 10 national exam, and the Grade 12 national exam.
ethiopia: In 2015, the realities of this provision were questioned in a report prepared by Freedom House.
ethiopia: As of 2022, there are 83 universities, 42 public universities, and more than 35 higher education institutions.
ethiopia: The country was placed under British military administration, and then Ethiopia's full sovereignty was restored with the signing of the Anglo-Ethiopian Agreement in December 1944.
ethiopia: They were established in 2007 and 2005 respectively.
ethiopia: Computer scientist Timnit Gebru, named one of Time's most influential people in 2022, was born in Ethiopia.
ethiopia: In 1959, Egypt and Sudan signed a bilateral treaty, the 1959 Nile Waters Agreement, which gave both countries exclusive maritime rights over the Nile waters.
ethiopia: Unlike most Sub-Saharan African countries, Ethiopia has an ancient distinct language, Ge'ez, which dominated politics and education, In spite of the current political instability in the country endangering the cultural heritage of these works, preservation has improved in recent years.
ethiopia: During this time, about a third of the population died in the Great Ethiopian Famine (1888 to 1892), and the rinderpest swept through the area, destroying much of the herd economy.
ethiopia: According to Glottolog, there are 109 languages spoken in Ethiopia, while Ethnologue lists 90 individual languages spoken in the country.
ethiopia: On 24 October 1945, Ethiopia became a founding member of the United Nations.
ethiopia: Ethiopians also used accordion books (called sensul) in the late 15th and 16th century, made of folded parchment paper, with or without a cover.
ethiopia: Among these, the Bole International Airport in Addis Ababa and the Aba Tenna Dejazmach Yilma International Airport in Dire Dawa accommodate international flights.
ethiopia: If there is need to go to war, we could get millions readied."
Ethiopia is one of the African countries that was a founding member of League of Nations, which served as the predecessor for the UN, since 1923.
ethiopia: Ethiopis is believed to be the twelfth direct descendant of Adam.
ethiopia: At this high altitude, humans are susceptible both to hypoxia and to extreme weather.
ethiopia: Haile Selassie's rule ended on 12 September 1974, when he was deposed by the Derg, a committee made up of military and police officers.
ethiopia: The president of the transitional government, EPRDF leader Meles Zenawi, became the first Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, and Negasso Gidada was elected its president.
ethiopia: Christianity arrived to the kingdom in 330 AD, while Islam gained influence during the first Hijra in 615.
ethiopia: In 1887, Menelik II, king of Shewa, invaded the Emirate of Harar after his victory at the Battle of Chelenqo.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian Space Science and Technology Institute is responsible for conducting multifaceted tasks regarding space and technology.
ethiopia: The feudal oligarchical cabinet of Aklilu Habte-Wold was toppled, and a new government was formed with Endelkachew Makonnen serving as Prime Minister.
ethiopia: In 1963, the Organisation of African Unity, which later renamed itself the African Union, was founded in Addis Ababa, which today hosts the secretariat of the African Union, the African Union Commission.
ethiopia: Ethiopia is vulnerable to many of the effects of climate change.
ethiopia: Migration to urban areas is usually motivated by the hope of better lives.
ethiopia: One of the most notable examples of Ethiopian architectures in antiquity was begun during the Dʿmt period.
ethiopia: Most historical arts were commissioned by the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, the state religion for a millennium.
ethiopia: Most of the country's major cities are located at elevations of around 2,000–2,500 m (6,562–8,202 ft) above sea level, including historic capitals such as Gondar and Axum.
ethiopia: Most regard Ethiopia's large water resources and potential as its "white oil" and its coffee resources as "black gold".
ethiopia: The Ethiopian government required nearly all refugees to live in refugee camps.
ethiopia: The most notable poets are Tsegaye Gebre-Medhin, Kebede Michael and Mengistu Lemma.
ethiopia: In addition, agricultural productivity remains low, and frequent droughts still beset the country, also leading to internal displacement.
ethiopia: Despite sanitation being a problem, use of improved water sources is also on the rise; 81% in cities compared to 11% in rural areas.
ethiopia: In addition, Ethiopia is also a member of the Pan African Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), the African Standby Force and many of global NGOs focused on Africa.
ethiopia: This First Italo-Ethiopian War culminated in the Battle of Adwa on 1 March 1896, in which Italy's colonial forces were defeated by the Ethiopians.
ethiopia: Ethiopia's main health problems are said to be communicable (contagious) diseases worsened by poor sanitation and malnutrition.
ethiopia: Urbanisation has steadily been increasing in Ethiopia, with two periods of significantly rapid growth.
ethiopia: After the fall of Dʿmt during the 4th century BC, the Ethiopian plateau came to be dominated by smaller successor kingdoms.
ethiopia: The use of the Entoto Observatory Space Science Research Centre (EORC) is allocated to space programmes.
ethiopia: In the Ge'ez version of the Ezana inscription, Aἰθίοπες is equated with the unvocalised Ḥbšt and Ḥbśt (Ḥabashat), and denotes for the first time the highland inhabitants of Aksum.
ethiopia: The 1990s saw an international boom in Ethiopian films.
ethiopia: In 1977, Somalia, which had previously been receiving assistance and arms from the USSR, invaded Ethiopia in the Ogaden War, capturing part of the Ogaden region.
ethiopia: According to the medieval Book of Axum, the kingdom's first capital, Mazaber, was built by Itiyopis, son of Cush.
ethiopia: This process reduced the power of regional rulers, restructured the empire's administration, and created a professional army.
ethiopia: Furthermore, the government of Ethiopia is purportedly unhappy with lost tax revenue and foreign exchange revenues.
ethiopia: Current government programs to control deforestation consist of education, promoting reforestation programs, and providing raw materials which are alternatives to timber.
ethiopia: Following Iyasu II's death in 1755, Empress Mentewab brought her brother, Ras Wolde Leul, to Gondar, making him Ras Bitwaded.
ethiopia: In return, Italy was to provide Menelik with weapons and support him as emperor.
ethiopia: Ethnic violence rose during the late 2010s and early 2020s, with various clashes and conflicts leading to millions of Ethiopians being displaced.
ethiopia: According to reports conducted by the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC), mass human rights violations carried out by ENDF troops including door-to-door searches, extrajudicial killings, massacres and detentions.
ethiopia: By this time, Neway Debebe was critical of the Derg government.
ethiopia: Some notable contemporary Ethiopian artists include Afewerk Tekle, Lemma Guya, Martha Nasibù, Ale Felege Selam, and others.
ethiopia: About 16% of the population in Ethiopia lives on less than one dollar per day (2008).
ethiopia: White in 1994.
ethiopia: The ceremony, which was started in 2014, is broadcast on live television on some stations.
ethiopia: Ethiopian philosophy has been superlatively prolific since ancient times in Africa, though strongly influenced by Greek and Patristic philosophy.
ethiopia: Foreign students constitute 16,305 in higher education level.
ethiopia: Ethiopian music further modernised in the next decade.
ethiopia: It also has many endemic species, notably the gelada, the walia ibex and the Ethiopian wolf ("Simien fox").
ethiopia: Emperors became figureheads, controlled by regional lords and noblemen like Ras Mikael Sehul, Ras Wolde Selassie of Tigray, and by the Yejju Oromo dynasty of the Wara Sheh, including Ras Gugsa of Yejju.
ethiopia: However, Ge'ez, the ancient Semitic language of Ethiopia, is thought to have developed independently from the Sabaean language.
ethiopia: "Ethiopia".
ethiopia: The early 20th century was marked by the reign of Emperor Haile Selassie (Ras Tafari).
ethiopia: The Sub-Saharan Africa NGO Consortium is attempting to coordinate efforts.
ethiopia: It is mainly known for dubbing foreign content into Amharic.
ethiopia: Zagwe's rule ended when an Amhara noble man Yekuno Amlak revolted against King Yetbarak and established the Ethiopian Empire (known by the exonym "Abyssinia").
ethiopia: Scrolls could range in size from the portable 30 cm scroll, to the 2 cm size, which is often unrolled and hung on the walls of houses.
ethiopia: At the regional level Ethiopia has 12 regional statewide police departments, and 2 federally chartered police forces, those being the Addis Ababa Police and Dire Dawa Police forces.
ethiopia: The country's gold production in 2015 is 9 tonnes.
ethiopia: The Persian prophet Mani listed Axum with Rome, Persia, and China as one of the four great powers of his era, during the 3rd century.
ethiopia: It is today part of the Unicode standard as Ethiopic, Ethiopic Extended, Ethiopic Supplement, and Ethiopic Extended-A.
ethiopia: Most remaining artworks beyond the early modern period were ruined as a result of the invasion of the Adal Sultanate in the Ethiopian Highlands, but were revived by Catholic emissaries.
ethiopia: The major portion of Ethiopia lies in the Horn of Africa, which is the easternmost part of the African landmass.
ethiopia: The wide range of altitude has given the country a variety of ecologically distinct areas, and this has helped to encourage the evolution of endemic species in ecological isolation.
ethiopia: Science and technology in Ethiopia are progressively emerging due to the lack of organised institutions.
ethiopia: In 2019, archaeologists discovered a 30,000-year-old Middle Stone Age rock shelter at the Fincha Habera site in Bale Mountains at an elevation of 3,469 m (11,381 ft) above sea level.
ethiopia: The second period of growth was from 1967 to 1975, when rural populations migrated to towns seeking work and better living conditions.
ethiopia: One of the most prestigious film awards is the Gumma Film Awards, held in Addis Ababa.
ethiopia: The Ethiopian Empire initiated territorial expansion under the leadership of Amda Seyon I.
ethiopia: of State (which includes current State Dept.
ethiopia: Like the Coptic calendar, the Ethiopian calendar has twelve months of exactly 30 days each plus five or six epagomenal days, which form a thirteenth month.
ethiopia: Several important finds have propelled Ethiopia and the surrounding region to the forefront of palaeontology.
ethiopia: A report by UNDP in 2011 showed that the literacy rate in Ethiopia was 46.7%.
ethiopia: In Greco-Roman epigraphs, Aethiopia was a specific toponym for ancient Nubia.
ethiopia: For the year 2017–18 (2010 E.C) this hydroelectric dam generated 4,900 GWh.
ethiopia: Italy, however, never managed to secure the country in its totality, due to resistance from the Arbegnoch; this made Ethiopia, along with Liberia, the only African country to never be fully colonised.
ethiopia: These changes created the basis for establishing the effective sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Ethiopian state.
ethiopia: The sequence of general education in Ethiopia is six years of primary school, then four years of lower secondary school followed by two years of higher secondary school.
ethiopia: Thus, the first day of the Ethiopian year, 1 Mäskäräm, for years between 1901 and 2099 (inclusive), is usually 11 September (Gregorian), but falls on 12 September in years before the Gregorian leap year.
ethiopia: Furthermore, the prevalence of stigmatising attitudes, inadequate leadership and co-ordination of efforts, as well as a lack of mental health awareness in the general population, all remain as obstacles to successful mental health care.
ethiopia: Three holidays are movable: Ramadan, Good Friday and Easter, two of which are always in spring and one of which (Ramadan) may occur at any time of year.
ethiopia: Ifat's successor, the Adal Sultanate, tried to conquer Ethiopia during the Ethiopian–Adal War, but was ultimately defeated at the 1543 Battle of Wayna Daga.
ethiopia: In July 1991, the EPRDF convened a National Conference to establish the Transitional Government of Ethiopia composed of an 87-member Council of Representatives and guided by a national charter that functioned as a transitional constitution.
ethiopia: Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha are trans-national holidays celebrated across the Islamic world, while Meskel is celebrated in other countries, but it is most prominent in Ethiopia.
ethiopia: The most widely circulated newspapers in Ethiopia are Addis Fortune, Capital Ethiopia, Ethiopian Reporter, Addis Zemen (in Amharic), and Ethiopian Herald.
ethiopia: Between 1990 and 2005 the country lost approximately 21,000 km2 of forests.
