ethnic_cleansing: 11 (1): 147–153.
ethnic_cleansing: "enslavement"), which was used in ancient texts.
ethnic_cleansing: Ethnic cleansing was particularly prevalent during periods of interstate war.
ethnic_cleansing: An antecedent to the term is the Greek word "andrapodismos" (ἀνδραποδισμός; lit.
ethnic_cleansing: "Ethnic Cleansing – An Attempt at Methodology" (PDF).
ethnic_cleansing: Yet it is not democratic states that are most prone to commit ethnic cleansing, because minorities tend to have constitutional guarantees.
ethnic_cleansing: doi:10.1017/CBO9780511793271.004.
ethnic_cleansing: The gross human rights violations integral to stricter definitions of ethnic cleansing are treated as separate crimes falling under public international law of crimes against humanity and, in certain circumstances, genocide.
ethnic_cleansing: European Journal of International Law.
ethnic_cleansing: ISBN 978-88-425-2999-6.
ethnic_cleansing: Raphael Lemkin, who coined the term "genocide," considered the displacement of Native Americans by American settlers as a historical example of genocide.
ethnic_cleansing: Ethnic cleansing has been described as part of a continuum of violence whose most extreme form is genocide.
ethnic_cleansing: 72 (3): 110–121.
ethnic_cleansing: 5 (4): 817.
ethnic_cleansing: The term was also used in the December 20, 1941, directive of Serbian Chetniks in reference to the genocidal massacres they committed against Bosniaks and Croats between 1941 and 1945.
ethnic_cleansing: Ethnic cleansing was a common phenomenon in the wars in Croatia, Kosovo, and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ethnic_cleansing: He argues that the democratic ideal "rule by the people" tends to be conflated with the rule of one specific people.
ethnic_cleansing: Along with direct removal such as deportation or population transfer, it also includes indirect methods aimed at forced migration by coercing the victim group to flee and preventing its return, such as murder, rape, and property destruction.
ethnic_cleansing: While ethnic cleansing and genocide may share the same goal and methods (e.g., forced displacement), ethnic cleansing is intended to displace a persecuted population from a given territory, while genocide is intended to destroy a group.
ethnic_cleansing: "Individual change after genocide in Bosnian survivors of 'ethnic cleansing': Assessing personality dysfunction".
ethnic_cleansing: Contemporary European History.
ethnic_cleansing: S2CID 145605508.
ethnic_cleansing: The official United Nations definition of ethnic cleansing is "rendering an area ethnically homogeneous by using force or intimidation to remove from a given area persons of another ethnic or religious group." As a category, ethnic cleansing encompasses a continuum or spectrum of policies.
ethnic_cleansing: PMID 9479683.
ethnic_cleansing: Infoibati (1943–1945).
ethnic_cleansing: The Circassian genocide, also known as "Tsitsekun," is often regarded by various historians as the first large-scale ethnic cleansing campaign launched by a state during the 19th-century industrial era.
ethnic_cleansing: In 1992, the German equivalent of ethnic cleansing (German: ethnische Säuberung, pronounced [ˈʔɛtnɪʃə ˈzɔɪ̯bəʁʊŋ] ) was named German Un-word of the Year by the Gesellschaft für deutsche Sprache due to its euphemistic, inappropriate nature.
ethnic_cleansing: doi:10.2307/20045626.
ethnic_cleansing: Vladimir Petrović (2007), Etnicizacija čišćenja u reči i nedelu Archived January 27, 2022, at the Wayback Machine (Ethnicisation of Cleansing), Hereticus 1/2007, 11–36
Rumici, Guido (2002).
ethnic_cleansing: This entailed intimidation, forced expulsion, or killing of the unwanted ethnic group as well as the destruction of its places of worship, cemeteries, and cultural and historical buildings.
ethnic_cleansing: Koper-Capodistria.
ethnic_cleansing: Other examples where mutual ethnic cleansing occurred include the First Nagorno-Karabakh War and the population transfers by the Soviets of Germans, Poles, and Ukrainians after World War II.
ethnic_cleansing: Journal of Traumatic Stress.
ethnic_cleansing: Ethnic cleansing was prevalent during the Age of Nationalism in Europe (19th and 20th centuries).
ethnic_cleansing: It was widely popularized by the Western media during the Bosnian War (1992–1995).
ethnic_cleansing: Furthermore, ethnic cleansing has been identified as a euphemism for genocide or cultural genocide.
ethnic_cleansing: Thum, Gregor (2010).
ethnic_cleansing: "Period 1941–1945".
ethnic_cleansing: As ethnic cleansing requires high levels of organisation and is usually directed by states or other authoritative powers, perpetrators are usually state powers or institutions with some coherence and capacity, not failed states as it is generally perceived.
ethnic_cleansing: According to the census organized in Croatia in 2001 and that organized in Slovenia in 2002, the Italians who remained in the former Yugoslavia amounted to 21,894 people (2,258 in Slovenia and 19,636 in Croatia).
ethnic_cleansing: ISSN 0022-0094.
ethnic_cleansing: "Foibe: Nationalism, Revenge and Ideology in Venezia Giulia and Istria, I943–5".
ethnic_cleansing: JSTOR 40542981.
ethnic_cleansing: "A Brief History of Ethnic Cleansing".
ethnic_cleansing: ISBN 9781107005037.
ethnic_cleansing: Ethnic cleansing has also been used as a euphemism for 'ethnocide' or 'cultural genocide'.
ethnic_cleansing: Both the definition and charge of ethnic cleansing are often disputed, with some researchers including and others excluding coercive assimilation or mass killings as a means of depopulating an area of a particular group, or calling it a euphemism for genocide or cultural genocide.
ethnic_cleansing: Others, like historian Gary Anderson, contend that genocide does not accurately characterize any aspect of American history, suggesting instead that ethnic cleansing is a more appropriate term.
ethnic_cleansing: Archived from the original on February 3, 2004.
ethnic_cleansing: Waters, argues that similar ethnic cleansing might go unpunished in the future.
ethnic_cleansing: doi:10.1017/S0960777309990257.
ethnic_cleansing: There are also situations, such as the expulsion of Germans after World War II, where ethnic cleansing has taken place without legal redress (see Preussische Treuhand v.
ethnic_cleansing: Slovene-Italian Relations 1880–1956.
ethnic_cleansing: 44 (4): 657–674.
ethnic_cleansing: "Genocide and ethnic cleansing".
ethnic_cleansing: The Russian phrase очистка границ (ochistka granits; lit.
ethnic_cleansing: Ethnic cleansing is similar to forced deportation or population transfer.
ethnic_cleansing: During the Holocaust in World War II, Nazi Germany pursued a policy of ensuring that Europe was "cleaned of Jews" (judenrein).
ethnic_cleansing: According to Michael Mann, in The Dark Side of Democracy (2004), murderous ethnic cleansing correlates with the creation of democracies.
ethnic_cleansing: During that time, the Syrian-backed, mostly Druze-dominated People's Liberation Army used a policy they called "territorial cleansing" to "drain" the Chouf of Maronite Christians in order to deny them the ability to resist the advance of the PSP.
ethnic_cleansing: However, states in a similar strategic situation can have widely varying policies towards minority ethnic groups perceived as a security threat.
ethnic_cleansing: 19 (1): 75–81.
ethnic_cleansing: Archived from the original on February 23, 2020.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Konrád, Ota; Barth, Boris; Mrňka, Jaromír, eds.
ethnic_cleansing: doi:10.1023/A:1024469418811.
ethnic_cleansing: Petrovic, Drazen (1998).
ethnic_cleansing: The perpetration of murderous ethnic cleansing tends to occur in unstable geopolitical environments and in contexts of war.
ethnic_cleansing: In 1953, there were 36,000 declared Italians in Yugoslavia, just about 16% of the original Italian population before World War II.
ethnic_cleansing: JSTOR 20045626.
ethnic_cleansing: S2CID 31419500.
ethnic_cleansing: Michael Mann holds that when two ethnic groups claim sovereignty over the same territory and can feel threatened, their differences can lead to severe grievances and danger of ethnic cleansing.
ethnic_cleansing: e.g., to describe atrocities that accompanied the Athenian general Chares and his seizure and destruction of Sestos in 353 and Alexander the Great's conquest of Thebes in 335 BCE.
ethnic_cleansing: Israeli herders have engaged in a systemic displacement of Palestinian herders in Area C of the West Bank as a form of nationalist and economic warfare.
ethnic_cleansing: Weine, Stevan M.; Becker, Daniel F.; Vojvoda, Dolores; Hodzic, Emir (1998).
ethnic_cleansing: "cleansing of borders") was used in Soviet documents of the early 1930s to refer to the forced resettlement of Polish people from the 22-kilometre (14 mi) border zone in the Byelorussian and Ukrainian SSRs.
ethnic_cleansing: Survivors of the ethnic cleansing were left severely traumatized as a consequence of this campaign.
ethnic_cleansing: The perpetrator's powers tend to get support by core constituencies that favour combinations of nationalism, statism, and violence.
ethnic_cleansing: According to numerous ICTY verdicts and indictments, Serb and Croat forces performed ethnic cleansing of their territories planned by their political leadership to create ethnically pure states (Republika Srpska and Republic of Serbian Krajina by the Serbs; and Herzeg-Bosnia by the Croats).
ethnic_cleansing: During the Genocide of Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia, the euphemism čišćenje terena ("cleansing the terrain") was used by the Croatian Ustaše to describe military actions in which non-Croats were purposely systematically killed or otherwise uprooted from their homes.
ethnic_cleansing: Although scholars do not agree on which events constitute ethnic cleansing, many instances have occurred throughout history.
ethnic_cleansing: At one end it is virtually indistinguishable from forced emigration and population exchange, while at the other it merges with deportation and genocide.
ethnic_cleansing: Professor of law, Timothy W.
ethnic_cleansing: Springer International Publishing.
ethnic_cleansing: Research has also focused on the role of war as a causative or potentiating factor in ethnic cleansing.
ethnic_cleansing: The resettlement policy of the Neo-Assyrian Empire in the 9th and 7th centuries BC is considered by some scholars to be one of the first cases of ethnic cleansing.
ethnic_cleansing: For instance, in the 1920s, Turkey expelled its Greek minority, and Greece expelled its Turkish minority following the Greco-Turkish War.
ethnic_cleansing: Journal of Contemporary History.
ethnic_cleansing: doi:10.1177/0022009409339344.
ethnic_cleansing: Bloxham, Donald; Dirk Moses, Anthony (2011).
ethnic_cleansing: This process of the population transfer in the Soviet Union was repeated on an even larger scale in 1939–1941, involving many other groups suspected of disloyalty.
ethnic_cleansing: The Nazi Generalplan Ost called for the genocide and ethnic cleansing of most Slavic people in central and eastern Europe for the purpose of providing more living space for the Germans.
ethnic_cleansing: Bell-Fialkoff, Andrew (1993).
ethnic_cleansing: Furthermore, such acts could also fall within the meaning of the Genocide Convention.
ethnic_cleansing: Retrieved November 5, 2022.
ethnic_cleansing: Political Violence in Twentieth-Century Europe.
ethnic_cleansing: The goal is to alter the population composition of an area in favor of another ethnic group, which becomes the new majority.
ethnic_cleansing: As a result, 163,670 Christian villagers were displaced.
ethnic_cleansing: Cambridge University Press.
ethnic_cleansing: "Review: Ethnic Cleansing in Eastern Europe after 1945".
ethnic_cleansing: In Bloxham, Donald; Gerwarth, Robert (eds.).
ethnic_cleansing: In response to these massacres, the Lebanese Forces conducted a similar policy, which resulted in 20,000 Druze displaced.
ethnic_cleansing: Imperial Russian general Nikolay Yevdakimov, who supervised the operations of Circassian genocide during the 1860s, dehumanised Muslim Circassians as "a pestilence" to be expelled from their native lands.
ethnic_cleansing: A 1913 Carnegie Endowment report condemning the actions of all participants in the Balkan Wars contained various new terms to describe brutalities committed toward ethnic groups.
ethnic_cleansing: Collective Identities and Post-War Violence in Europe, 1944–48.
ethnic_cleansing: I Nomi, I Luoghi, I Testimoni, I Documenti (in Italian).
ethnic_cleansing: Those practices constitute crimes against humanity and can be assimilated to specific war crimes.
ethnic_cleansing: After the Israeli withdrawal from the Chouf, the Mountain War broke out, where ethnic cleansings (mostly in the form of tit-for-tat killings) occurred.
ethnic_cleansing: ISBN 9783030783860.
ethnic_cleansing: Ugo Mursia.
ethnic_cleansing: The expulsion of the Moriscos from Spain between 1609 and 1614 is considered by some authors to be one of the first episodes of state-sponsored ethnic cleansing in the modern Western world.
ethnic_cleansing: From 1947, after the war, they were subject by Yugoslav authorities to less violent forms of intimidation, such as nationalization, expropriation, and discriminatory taxation, which gave them little option other than emigration.
ethnic_cleansing: Ethnic hostility appears where ethnic identity eclipses conventional social classes as the underlying cause of social stratification.
ethnic_cleansing: Since then, the term has gained widespread acceptance due to journalism.
ethnic_cleansing: Foreign Affairs.
ethnic_cleansing: S2CID 159919208.
ethnic_cleansing: In the early 1900s, regional variants of the term could be found among the Czechs (očista), the Poles (czystki etniczne), the French (épuration), and the Germans (Säuberung).
ethnic_cleansing: Usually, in deeply divided societies, categories such as class and ethnicity are deeply intertwined, and when an ethnic group is seen as an oppressor or exploitative of the other, serious ethnic conflict can develop.
ethnic_cleansing: Ethnic cleansing has no legal definition under international criminal law, but the methods by which it is carried out are considered crimes against humanity and may also fall under the Genocide Convention.
ethnic_cleansing: In its complete form, the term appeared for the first time in the Romanian language (purificare etnică) in an address by Vice Prime Minister Mihai Antonescu to cabinet members in July 1941.
ethnic_cleansing: In the words of Andrew Bell-Fialkoff, "ethnic cleansing ...
ethnic_cleansing: defies easy definition.
ethnic_cleansing: Multi-ethnic Europeans engaged in ethnic cleansing against minorities in order to preempt their secession and the loss of territory.
ethnic_cleansing: During the 1980s, in Lebanon, ethnic cleansing was common during all phases of the conflict.
ethnic_cleansing: The term was first used to describe Albanian nationalist treatment of the Kosovo Serbs in the 1980s, and entered widespread use during the Yugoslav Wars in the 1990s.
ethnic_cleansing: Ethnic cleansing is the systematic forced removal of ethnic, racial, or religious groups from a given area, with the intent of making the society ethnically homogeneous.
ethnic_cleansing: Neither are stable authoritarian regimes (except the Nazi and communist regimes), which are likely perpetrators of murderous ethnic cleansing, but those regimes that are in the process of democratization.
ethnic_cleansing: The Russian objective was the annexation of land, and the Russian military operations that forcibly deported Circassians were designated by Yevdakimov as "ochishchenie" (cleansing).
