exercise: Exercise in some areas of China, particularly among those who are retired, seems to be socially grounded.
exercise: Artificial selection of mice exhibited significant heritability in voluntary exercise levels, with "high-runner" breeds having enhanced aerobic capacity, hippocampal neurogenesis, and skeletal muscle morphology.
exercise: Types of exercise can also be classified as dynamic or static.
exercise: In his 2019 book The Body: A Guide for Occupants, the American-British writer Bill Bryson wrote: "If someone invented a pill that could do for us all that a moderate amount of exercise achieves, it would instantly become the most successful drug in history."
exercise: This is likely to be more pronounced with higher intensity exercise.
exercise: That is, contracting muscles release multiple substances known as myokines which promote the growth of new tissue, tissue repair, and multiple anti-inflammatory functions, which in turn reduce the risk of developing various inflammatory diseases.
exercise: People who participate in moderate to high levels of physical exercise have a lower mortality rate compared to individuals who by comparison are not physically active.
exercise: According to the review, "[there] was consistent evidence from 27 observational studies that physical activity is associated with reduced all-cause, breast cancer–specific, and colon cancer–specific mortality.
exercise: However, another study did not find the effect.
exercise: Children who participate in physical exercise experience greater loss of body fat and increased cardiovascular fitness.
exercise: Endurance exercise before meals lowers blood glucose more than the same exercise after meals.
exercise: The European Commission's Directorate-General for Education and Culture (DG EAC) has dedicated programs and funds for Health Enhancing Physical Activity (HEPA) projects within its Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+ program, as research showed that too many Europeans are not physically active enough.
exercise: Moderate exercise has been associated with a 29% decreased incidence of upper respiratory tract infections (URTI), but studies of marathon runners found that their prolonged high-intensity exercise was associated with an increased risk of infection occurrence.
exercise: This works particularly well in Sweden due to its geographical location.
exercise: This has been accompanied by increasing use of mechanized transportation, a greater prevalence of labor-saving technology in the home, and fewer active recreational pursuits.
exercise: Children who are more proficient with motor skills early on are more inclined to be physically active, and thus tend to perform well in sports and have better fitness levels.
exercise: There is some weak evidence that high-intensity interval training may improve a person's VO2 max slightly more than lower intensity endurance training.
exercise: Moderate levels of exercise have been correlated with preventing aging by reducing inflammatory potential.
exercise: Aerobic physical exercise may result in little to no difference in the mortality, quality of life, or physical functioning.
exercise: There is evidence that vigorous exercise (90–95% of VO2 max) induces a greater degree of physiological cardiac hypertrophy than moderate exercise (40 to 70% of VO2 max), but it is unknown whether this has any effects on overall morbidity and/or mortality.
exercise: Environmental approaches appear promising: signs that encourage the use of stairs, as well as community campaigns, may increase exercise levels.
exercise: Studies to determine the effectiveness of these types of programs need to be interpreted cautiously as the results vary.
exercise: Active recovery is recommended after participating in physical exercise because it removes lactate from the blood more quickly than inactive recovery.
exercise: The DG EAC regularly publishes a Eurobarometer on sport and physical activity.
exercise: The effects of physical exercise on the central nervous system may be mediated in part by specific neurotrophic factor hormones released into the blood by muscles, including BDNF, IGF-1, and VEGF.
exercise: A lack of physical activity causes approximately 6% of the burden of disease from coronary heart disease, 7% of type 2 diabetes, 10% of breast cancer, and 10% of colon cancer worldwide.
exercise: There is a direct correlation between physical inactivity and cardiovascular disease, and physical inactivity is an independent risk factor for the development of coronary artery disease.
exercise: Some exercise interventions may also prevent sport-related concussion.
exercise: Studies have shown that since heart disease is the leading cause of death in women, regular exercise in aging women leads to healthier cardiovascular profiles.
exercise: Resistance training and subsequent consumption of a protein-rich meal promotes muscle hypertrophy and gains in muscle strength by stimulating myofibrillar muscle protein synthesis (MPS) and inhibiting muscle protein breakdown (MPB).
exercise: Although there is only limited scientific evidence on the subject, people with cancer cachexia are encouraged to engage in physical exercise.
exercise: Personal lifestyle changes, however, can correct the lack of physical exercise.
exercise: It is performed for various reasons, including weight loss or maintenance, to aid growth and improve strength, develop muscles and the cardiovascular system, hone athletic skills, improve health, or simply for enjoyment.
exercise: Sedentary people are most at risk for mortality from cardiovascular and all other causes.
exercise: Ventricular hypertrophy, the thickening of the ventricular walls, is generally beneficial and healthy if it occurs in response to exercise.
exercise: In Bogotá, Colombia, a 70-mile stretch of road known as the Ciclovía is shut down each Sunday for bicyclists, runners, rollerbladers, skateboarders and other exercisers to work out and enjoy their surroundings.
exercise: In many instances, they use outdoor activities as social gatherings to enjoy nature and their communities.
exercise: Removing lactate from circulation allows for an easy decline in body temperature, which can also benefit the immune system, as an individual may be vulnerable to minor illnesses if the body temperature drops too abruptly after physical exercise.
exercise: The most beneficial effects of physical activity on cardiovascular disease mortality can be attained through moderate-intensity activity (40–60% of maximal oxygen uptake, depending on age).
exercise: People will congregate at these outdoor gyms not only to use the public facilities, but also to organize aerobics and dance sessions, which are open to the public.
exercise: Exercise may contribute to a reduction of cancer-related fatigue in survivors of breast cancer.
exercise: Research published in 2015 suggests that incorporating mindfulness into physical exercise interventions increases exercise adherence and self-efficacy, and also has positive effects both psychologically and physiologically.
exercise: People may exercise for personal enjoyment, health and well-being, social interactions, competition or training, etc.
exercise: Parents can promote physical activity by modelling healthy levels of physical activity or by encouraging physical activity.
exercise: Crocodiles, alligators, and ducks showed elevated aerobic capacity following exercise training.
exercise: Athletes may have a slightly elevated natural killer cell count and cytolytic action, but these are unlikely to be clinically significant.
exercise: Immune cell functions are impaired following acute sessions of prolonged, high-intensity exercise, and some studies have found that athletes are at a higher risk for infections.
exercise: The greatest potential for reduced mortality is seen in sedentary individuals who become moderately active.
exercise: There is evidence that exercising in middle age may lead to better physical ability later in life.
exercise: Some studies indicate that exercise may increase life expectancy and the overall quality of life.
exercise: People will swim in rivers, use boats, and run through forests to stay healthy and enjoy the natural world around them.
exercise: When exercising, it becomes even more important to have a good diet to ensure that the body has the correct ratio of macronutrients while providing ample micronutrients, to aid the body with the recovery process following strenuous exercise.
exercise: Worldwide there has been a large shift toward less physically demanding work.
exercise: Anaerobic exercise also includes weight training, functional training, eccentric training, interval training, sprinting, and high-intensity interval training which increase short-term muscle strength.
exercise: Flexibility exercises stretch and lengthen muscles.
exercise: The majority of the benefits from exercise are achieved with around 3500 metabolic equivalent (MET) minutes per week, with diminishing returns at higher levels of activity.
exercise: Developing research has demonstrated that many of the benefits of exercise are mediated through the role of skeletal muscle as an endocrine organ.
exercise: Activities such as stretching help to improve joint flexibility and keep muscles limber.
exercise: Exercise physiologists recommend the "4-Rs framework":
exercise: Studies have identified many different factors.
exercise: According to the American Heart Association, exercise reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases, including heart attack and stroke.
exercise: Brief interventions promoting physical activity may be cost-effective, however this evidence is weak and there are variations between studies.
exercise: However, unscientific fitness methods could lead to sports injuries.
exercise: Financing is available for increased collaboration between players active in this field across the EU and around the world, the promotion of HEPA in the EU and its partner countries, and the European Sports Week.
exercise: Aerobic exercise is any physical activity that uses large muscle groups and causes the body to use more oxygen than it would while resting.
exercise: 'Dynamic' exercises such as steady running, tend to produce a lowering of the diastolic blood pressure during exercise, due to the improved blood flow.
exercise: These differences could potentially be attributed to a variety of reasons including geographic location and social tendencies.
exercise: There is low-quality evidence for an effect of aerobic physical exercises on anxiety and serious adverse events in adults with hematological malignancies.
exercise: There is a dose-response relationship between the amount of exercise performed from approximately 700–2000 kcal of energy expenditure per week and all-cause mortality and cardiovascular disease mortality in middle-aged and elderly men.
exercise: For example, climbing stairs 10 minutes, vacuuming 15 minutes, gardening 20 minutes, running 20 minutes, and walking or bicycling for transportation 25 minutes on a daily basis would together achieve about 3000 MET minutes a week.
exercise: Epidemiological evidence suggests that moderate exercise has a beneficial effect on the human immune system; an effect which is modeled in a J curve.
exercise: The immune systems of athletes and nonathletes are generally similar.
exercise: This regimen was assimilated into the training of the British Army, which formed the Army Gymnastic Staff in 1860 and made sport an important part of military life.
exercise: Early motor skills and development is also related to physical activity and performance later in life.
exercise: Overall, physical inactivity causes 9% of premature mortality worldwide.
exercise: There is some evidence that certain types of exercise programmes for older adults, such as those involving gait, balance, co-ordination and functional tasks, can improve balance.
exercise: Vitamin C supplementation has been associated with a lower incidence of upper respiratory tract infections in marathon runners.
exercise: In Colombia, for example, citizens value and celebrate the outdoor environments of their country.
exercise: Conversely, static exercise (such as weight-lifting) can cause the systolic pressure to rise significantly, albeit transiently, during the performance of the exercise.
exercise: Sweden has also begun developing outdoor gyms, called utegym.
exercise: In this country, public gyms have become quite popular.
exercise: Due to various factors, some individuals with cancer cachexia have a limited capacity for physical exercise.
exercise: Examples of strength exercises are push-ups, pull-ups, lunges, squats, bench press.
exercise: Studies have shown that strenuous stress for long durations, such as training for a marathon, can suppress the immune system by decreasing the concentration of lymphocytes.
exercise: This genetic variation in improvement from training is one of the key physiological differences between elite athletes and the larger population.
exercise: Many people choose to exercise outdoors where they can congregate in groups, socialize, and improve well-being as well as mental health.
exercise: In 1858, Archibald MacLaren opened a gymnasium at the University of Oxford and instituted a training regimen for Major Frederick Hammersley and 12 non-commissioned officers.
exercise: The beneficial effect of exercise on the cardiovascular system is well documented.
exercise: Only doing half the usual recommended level exercise still reduces the risk of early death, cardiovascular disease, stroke, and cancer.
exercise: Compliance with prescribed exercise is low in individuals with cachexia and clinical trials of exercise in this population often have high drop-out rates.
exercise: Similarly to Colombia, citizens of Cambodia tend to exercise socially outside.
exercise: Early motor proficiency has a positive correlation to childhood physical activity and fitness levels, while less proficiency in motor skills results in a more sedentary lifestyle.
exercise: The effects of exercise training appear to be heterogeneous across non-mammalian species.
exercise: Anaerobic exercise, which includes strength and resistance training, can firm, strengthen, and increase muscle mass, as well as improve bone density, balance, and coordination.
exercise: Implementing physical exercise in the school system and ensuring an environment in which children can reduce barriers to maintain a healthy lifestyle is essential.
exercise: The goal is to improve the range of motion which can reduce the chance of injury.
exercise: Exercise or working out is physical activity that enhances or maintains fitness and overall health.
exercise: Increases in muscle size from resistance training are primarily determined by diet and testosterone.
exercise: These sociocultural variations in physical exercise show how people in different geographic locations and social climates have varying motivations and methods of exercising.
exercise: There is some level of concern about additional exposure to air pollution when exercising outdoors, especially near traffic.
exercise: Both aerobic and anaerobic exercise work to increase the mechanical efficiency of the heart by increasing cardiac volume (aerobic exercise), or myocardial thickness (strength training).
exercise: Biomarkers of inflammation such as C-reactive protein, which are associated with chronic diseases, are reduced in active individuals relative to sedentary individuals, and the positive effects of exercise may be due to its anti-inflammatory effects.
exercise: Exercise reduces levels of cortisol, which causes many health problems, both physical and mental.
exercise: These gyms are free to the public and are often placed in beautiful, picturesque environments.
exercise: The type and intensity of physical activity performed may have an effect on a person's fitness level.
exercise: In terms of health benefits, usually, 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of moderate-intensity exercise per week is recommended for reducing the risk of health problems.
exercise: More recently, exercise was regarded as a beneficial force in the 19th century.
exercise: Studies of animals indicate that physical activity may be more adaptable than changes in food intake to regulate energy balance.
exercise: The depression in the immune system following acute bouts of exercise may be one of the mechanisms for this anti-inflammatory effect.
exercise: In the mornings, square dances are held in public parks; these gatherings may include Latin dancing, ballroom dancing, tango, or even the jitterbug.
exercise: For people with cancer undergoing active treatment, exercise may also have positive effects on health-related quality of life, such as fatigue and physical functioning.
exercise: Low levels of physical exercise increase the risk of cardiovascular diseases mortality.
exercise: No effect of endurance training was found in most studies of lizards, although one study did report a training effect.
exercise: Physical exercise can also include training that focuses on accuracy, agility, power, and speed.
exercise: The first and most significant of these in the UK was the Women's League of Health and Beauty, founded in 1930 by Mary Bagot Stack, that had 166,000 members in 1937.
exercise: The goal of aerobic exercise is to increase cardiovascular endurance.
exercise: Similarly, increased muscle protein synthesis (via activation of mTORC1) and suppressed muscle protein breakdown (via insulin-independent mechanisms) has also been shown to occur following ingestion of β-hydroxy β-methylbutyric acid.
exercise: Physical exercise can improve health and well-being, as well as enhance community ties and appreciation of natural beauty.
exercise: In lizards, sprint training had no effect on maximal exercise capacity, and muscular damage from over-training occurred following weeks of forced treadmill exercise.
exercise: Examples of aerobic exercise include running, cycling, swimming, brisk walking, skipping rope, rowing, hiking, dancing, playing tennis, continuous training, and long distance running.
exercise: At the same time, even doing a small amount of exercise is healthier than doing none.
exercise: Aerobic exercise induces mitochondrial biogenesis and an increased capacity for oxidative phosphorylation in the mitochondria of skeletal muscle, which is one mechanism by which aerobic exercise enhances submaximal endurance performance.
exercise: For people who currently get the smallest amount of physical activity, adding just two or three minutes per day of moderate physical activity could reduce the risk of premature death by 10%.
exercise: Mice having access to activity wheels engaged in voluntary exercise and increased their propensity to run as adults.
exercise: The link between physical health and exercise (or lack of it) was further established in 1949 and reported in 1953 by a team led by Jerry Morris.
exercise: Such pedestrian zones are part of an effort to combat chronic diseases and to maintain a healthy BMI.
exercise: In individuals with heart disease, exercise interventions lower blood levels of fibrinogen and C-reactive protein, an important cardiovascular risk marker.
exercise: Dancing in public allows people to interact with those with whom they would not normally interact, allowing for both health and social benefits.
exercise: Studies have shown that academic stress in youth increases the risk of cardiovascular disease in later years; however, these risks can be greatly decreased with regular physical exercise.
exercise: Science Daily's reference on physical exercise
exercise: According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States, children and adolescents should do 60 minutes or more of physical activity each day.
exercise: Most people can increase fitness by increasing physical activity levels.
exercise: The city of Bogotá, Colombia, for example, blocks off 113 kilometers (70 mi) of roads on Sundays and holidays to make it easier for its citizens to get exercise.
exercise: A 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis suggested that exercise can improve sleep quality in people with insomnia.
exercise: Several mass exercise movements were started in the early twentieth century as well.
exercise: Following progressive resistance training, older adults also respond with improved physical function.
exercise: As examples, exercise training of salmon showed minor improvements of endurance, and a forced swimming regimen of yellowtail amberjack and rainbow trout accelerated their growth rates and altered muscle morphology favorable for sustained swimming.
exercise: A 2010 review suggested that exercise generally improved sleep for most people, and may help with insomnia, but there is insufficient evidence to draw detailed conclusions about the relationship between exercise and sleep.
exercise: Some have suggested that increases in physical exercise might decrease healthcare costs, increase the rate of job attendance, as well as increase the amount of effort women put into their jobs.
exercise: The suppression of muscle protein breakdown following food consumption occurs primarily via increases in plasma insulin.
exercise: In some countries, people exercise primarily indoors (such as at home or health clubs), while in others, people primarily exercise outdoors.
exercise: The benefits of exercise have been known since antiquity.
exercise: These exercises may result in a slight reduction in depression and reduction in fatigue.
exercise: After a myocardial infarction, survivors who changed their lifestyle to include regular exercise had higher survival rates.
