expressionism: In a historical sense, much older painters such as Matthias Grünewald and El Greco are sometimes termed expressionist, though the term is applied mainly to 20th-century works.
expressionism: Expressionism developed as an avant-garde style before the First World War.
expressionism: The influential architectural critic and historian Sigfried Giedion, in his book Space, Time and Architecture (1941), dismissed Expressionist architecture as a part of the development of functionalism.
expressionism: Important precursors of expressionism are Richard Wagner (1813–1883), Gustav Mahler (1860–1911), and Richard Strauss (1864–1949).
expressionism: Denmark: Einer Johansen, Jens Søndergaard, Oluf Høst
Estonia: Konrad Mägi, Eduard Wiiralt, Kuno Veeber
Finland: Tyko Sallinen, Alvar Cawén, and Wäinö Aaltonen.
expressionism: Important precursors were the Swedish playwright August Strindberg and German actor and dramatist Frank Wedekind.
expressionism: Uruguay: Rafael Barradas
expressionism: The movement was characterized by the work of Kanae Yamamoto (artist), Kōshirō Onchi, and many others.
expressionism: The term expressionism "was probably first applied to music in 1918, especially to Schoenberg", because like the painter Kandinsky he avoided "traditional forms of beauty" to convey powerful feelings in his music.
expressionism: It was not important to reproduce an aesthetically pleasing impression of the artistic subject matter, they felt, but rather to represent vivid emotional reactions by powerful colours and dynamic compositions.
expressionism: In the U.S., American Expressionism and American Figurative Expressionism, particularly Boston Expressionism, were an integral part of American modernism around the Second World War.
expressionism: Erwartung and Die Glückliche Hand, by Schoenberg, and Wozzeck, an opera by Alban Berg (based on the play Woyzeck by Georg Büchner), are examples of Expressionist works.
expressionism: Embry has been termed "the first American German Expressionist".
expressionism: Expressionist artists have sought to express the meaning of emotional experience rather than physical reality.
expressionism: After World War II, figurative expressionism influenced artists and styles around the world.
expressionism: The techniques that correlate with this movement includes distorted set design, chiaroscuro lighting, stylised acting, distorted camera angles, and superimposition.
expressionism: In Bronnen's Parricide (Vatermord), the son stabs his tyrannical father to death, only to have to fend off the frenzied sexual overtures of his mother.
expressionism: In Mexico, in 1953, German émigré Mathias Goeritz published the Arquitectura Emocional ("Emotional Architecture") manifesto with which he declared that "architecture's principal function is emotion".
expressionism: Theodor Adorno describes expressionism as concerned with the unconscious, and states that "the depiction of fear lies at the centre" of expressionist music, with dissonance predominating, so that the "harmonious, affirmative element of art is banished" (Adorno 2009, 275–76).
expressionism: These artists, centered in the Montparnasse district of Paris tended to portray human subjects and humanity, evoking emotion through facial expression.
expressionism: Norris Embry (1921–1981) studied with Oskar Kokoschka in 1947 and during the next 43 years produced a large body of work in the Expressionist tradition.
expressionism: The German composer Paul Hindemith created an operatic version of this play, which premiered in 1921.
expressionism: France: Frédéric Fiebig, Georges Rouault, Alexandre Frenel, Georges Gimel, Gen Paul, Marie-Thérèse Auffray, Jacques Démoulin and Bernard Buffet.
expressionism: Neo-expressionism was an international revival style that began in the late 1970s and 1980s.
expressionism: It was only during the 1970s that Expressionism in architecture came to be re-evaluated more positively.
expressionism: In it, an unnamed man and woman struggle for dominance.
expressionism: Strindberg had pioneered this form with his autobiographical trilogy To Damascus.
expressionism: A few years later, in 1911, a like-minded group of young artists formed Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) in Munich.
expressionism: These stylistic devices appear prominently in some classic Hollywood films, such as F.W.Murnau's Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans (1927), which suggests the impact of the new wave of German film makers on American cinema.
expressionism: The style originated principally in Germany and Austria.
expressionism: Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider, named after a painting) was based in Munich and Die Brücke (The Bridge) was originally based in Dresden (some members moved to Berlin).
expressionism: It remained popular during the Weimar Republic, particularly in Berlin.
expressionism: According to Alberto Arbasino, a difference between the two is that "Expressionism doesn't shun the violently unpleasant effect, while Baroque does.
expressionism: Die Brücke was active for a longer period than Der Blaue Reiter, which was only together for a year (1912).
expressionism: Argentina: Xul Solar
Armenia: Martiros Saryan
Australia: Sidney Nolan, Charles Blackman, John Perceval, Albert Tucker, and Joy Hester.
expressionism: Sōsaku-hanga (創作版画 "creative prints") was an expressionist woodblock print movement in early 20th century Japan.
expressionism: The interior of Hans Poelzig's Berlin theatre (the Grosse Schauspielhaus), designed for the director Max Reinhardt, is also cited sometimes.
expressionism: These plays also often dramatise the struggle against bourgeois values and established authority, frequently personified by the Father.
expressionism: It is arguable that all artists are expressive but there are many examples of art production in Europe from the 15th century onward which emphasize extreme emotion.
expressionism: An alternative view is that the term was coined by the Czech art historian Antonin Matějček in 1910 as the opposite of Impressionism: "An Expressionist wishes, above all, to express himself...
expressionism: Hess wrote that "the 'New figurative painting' which some have been expecting as a reaction against Abstract Expressionism was implicit in it at the start, and is one of its most lineal continuities."
expressionism: Paris became a gathering place for a group of Expressionist artists, many of Jewish origin, dubbed the School of Paris.
expressionism: In Paris a group of artists dubbed the École de Paris (School of Paris) by André Warnod were also known for their expressionist art.
expressionism: Among their members were Kandinsky, Franz Marc, Paul Klee, and August Macke.
expressionism: Expressionist music roughly does the same thing, where the dramatically increased dissonance creates, aurally, a nightmarish atmosphere.
expressionism: This was especially prevalent amongst the foreign born Jewish painters of the School of Paris such as Chaim Soutine, Marc Chagall, Yitzhak Frenkel, Abraham Mintchine and others.
expressionism: Jakob van Hoddis
Georg Trakl
Walter Rheiner
Gottfried Benn
Georg Heym
Else Lasker-Schüler
Ernst Stadler
August Stramm
Rainer Maria Rilke (1875–1926): The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge (1910)
Geo Milev
Other poets influenced by expressionism:
expressionism: The name came from Wassily Kandinsky's Der Blaue Reiter painting of 1903.
expressionism: Some further writers and works that have been called Expressionist include:
expressionism: The style extended to a wide range of the arts, including expressionist architecture, painting, literature, theatre, dance, film and music.
expressionism: While the word expressionist was used in the modern sense as early as 1850, its origin is sometimes traced to paintings exhibited in 1901 in Paris by obscure artist Julien-Auguste Hervé, which he called Expressionismes.
expressionism: Expressionism throws some terrific 'fuck yous', Baroque doesn't.
expressionism: In 1905, a group of four German artists, led by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, formed Die Brücke (the Bridge) in the city of Dresden.
expressionism: Directors also made heavy use of lighting effects to create stark contrast and as another method to heavily emphasize emotion and convey the play or a scene's message.
expressionism: These were often unimpressive aesthetically but had the capacity to arouse extreme emotions in the viewer.
expressionism: Exponents of expressionist dance included Mary Wigman, Rudolf von Laban, and Pina Bausch.
expressionism: This was arguably the founding organization for the German Expressionist movement, though they did not use the word itself.
expressionism: The term is sometimes suggestive of angst.
expressionism: Kandinsky, the main artist of Der Blaue Reiter, believed that with simple colours and shapes the spectator could perceive the moods and feelings in the paintings, a theory that encouraged him towards increased abstraction.
expressionism: The Expressionists were influenced by artists and sources including Edvard Munch, Vincent van Gogh and African art.
expressionism: The man brands the woman; she stabs and imprisons him.
expressionism: Greece: George Bouzianis
Hungary: Tivadar Kosztka Csontváry
Iceland: Einar Hákonarson
Ireland: Jack B.
expressionism: Nevertheless, the reception of Expressionist art from Germany was initially marked by considerable skepticism.
expressionism: Caligari (1920), Paul Wegener's The Golem: How He Came into the World (1920), Fritz Lang's Metropolis (1927) and F.
expressionism: Other notable Expressionist dramatists included Reinhard Sorge, Walter Hasenclever, Hans Henny Jahnn, and Arnolt Bronnen.
expressionism: Baroque is well-mannered."
expressionism: The Expressionist emphasis on individual and subjective perspective has been characterized as a reaction to positivism and other artistic styles such as Naturalism and Impressionism.
expressionism: Though mainly a German artistic movement initially and most predominant in painting, poetry and the theatre between 1910 and 1930, most precursors of the movement were not German.
expressionism: Expressionism is a modernist movement, initially in poetry and painting, originating in Northern Europe around the beginning of the 20th century.
expressionism: After working as a commercial artist in Bremen, he migrated to Australia in 1954 and became quite well known in the Hunter Valley region.
expressionism: If one were to draw an analogy from paintings, one may describe the expressionist painting technique as the distortion of reality (mostly colors and shapes) to create a nightmarish effect for the particular painting as a whole.
expressionism: Characterized by the work of Dan Christensen, Peter Young, Ronnie Landfield, Ronald Davis, Larry Poons, Walter Darby Bannard, Charles Arnoldi, Pat Lipsky and many others.
expressionism: They were also aware of the work being done by the Fauves in Paris, who influenced Expressionism's tendency toward arbitrary colours and jarring compositions.
expressionism: In Expressionist drama, the speech may be either expansive and rhapsodic, or clipped and telegraphic.
expressionism: Other expressionist artists known mainly as painters, such as Erich Heckel, also worked with sculpture.
expressionism: In architecture, two specific buildings are identified as Expressionist: Bruno Taut's Glass Pavilion of the Cologne Werkbund Exhibition (1914), and Erich Mendelsohn's Einstein Tower in Potsdam, Germany completed in 1921.
expressionism: The term "expressionist" is also sometimes used to refer to stylistic devices thought to resemble those of German Expressionism, such as film noir cinematography or the style of several of the films of Ingmar Bergman.
expressionism: During the 1920s, Expressionism enjoyed a brief period of influence in American theatre, including the early modernist plays by Eugene O'Neill (The Hairy Ape, The Emperor Jones and The Great God Brown), Sophie Treadwell (Machinal) and Elmer Rice (The Adding Machine).
expressionism: The term refers to an "artistic style in which the artist seeks to depict not objective reality but rather the subjective emotions and responses that objects and events arouse within a person".
expressionism: Another prominent artist who came from the German Expressionist "school" was Bremen-born Wolfgang Degenhardt.
expressionism: Lyrical Abstraction, Tachisme of the 1940s and 1950s in Europe represented by artists such as Georges Mathieu, Hans Hartung, Nicolas de Staël and others.
expressionism: In late 1939, at the beginning of World War II, New York City received many European artists.
expressionism: After the war, Expressionism influenced many young American artists.
expressionism: Seán O'Casey (1880–1964)
Eugene O'Neill (1885–1953)
Elmer Rice (1892–1967)
Tennessee Williams (1911–1983)
Arthur Miller (1915–2005)
Samuel Beckett (1906–1989)
expressionism: Hottentots in tails – a turbulent history of the group by Christian Saehrendt at signandsight.com
German Expressionism – a free resource with paintings from German expressionists (high-quality) (archived 20 February 2006)
expressionism: Such art often occurs during times of social upheaval and war, such as the Protestant Reformation, German Peasants' War, and Eighty Years' War between the Spanish and the Netherlands, when extreme violence, much directed at civilians, was represented in propagandist popular prints.
expressionism: Another significant expressionist was Béla Bartók in early works, written in the second decade of the 20th century, such as Bluebeard's Castle (1911), The Wooden Prince (1917), and The Miraculous Mandarin (1919).
expressionism: Expressionism has been likened to Baroque by critics such as art historian Michel Ragon and German philosopher Walter Benjamin.
expressionism: Furthermore, there have been expressionist writers of prose fiction, as well as non-German-speaking expressionist writers, and, while the movement declined in Germany with the rise of Adolf Hitler in the 1930s, there were subsequent expressionist works.
expressionism: However, the term Expressionism did not firmly establish itself until 1913.
expressionism: Staging was especially important in Expressionist drama, with directors forgoing the illusion of reality to block actors in as close to two-dimensional movement.
expressionism: Its typical trait is to present the world solely from a subjective perspective, distorting it radically for emotional effect in order to evoke moods or ideas.
expressionism: There were groups of expressionist painters, including Der Blaue Reiter and Die Brücke.
expressionism: The Boston Expressionists persisted after World War II despite their marginalization by the development of abstract expressionism centered in New York City, and are currently in the third generation.
expressionism: The art of Jewish expressionists was characterized as dramatic and tragic, perhaps in connection to Jewish suffering following persecution and pogroms.
expressionism: The movement from 1950 to 1965 was joined by Theophilus Brown, Paul Wonner, Hassel Smith, Nathan Oliveira, Jay DeFeo, Joan Brown, Manuel Neri, Frank Lobdell, and Roland Peterson.
expressionism: There was an Expressionist style in German cinema, important examples of which are Robert Wiene's The Cabinet of Dr.
expressionism: In Sorge's The Beggar, (Der Bettler), for example, the young hero's mentally ill father raves about the prospect of mining the riches of Mars and is finally poisoned by his son.
expressionism: Murnau's Nosferatu, a Symphony of Horror (1922) and The Last Laugh (1924).
expressionism: After World War II, figurative expressionism influenced  artists and styles around the world.
expressionism: He frees himself and she falls dead at his touch.
expressionism: Impressions and mental images that pass through ...
expressionism: Oskar Kokoschka's 1909 playlet, Murderer, The Hope of Women is often termed the first expressionist drama.
expressionism: Some utilise an episodic dramatic structure and are known as Stationendramen (station plays), modeled on the presentation of the suffering and death of Jesus in the Stations of the Cross.
expressionism: These artists' expressionism was described as restless and emotional by Frenkel.
expressionism: Georg Kaiser (1878)
Ernst Toller (1893–1939)
Hans Henny Jahnn (1894–1959)
Reinhard Sorge (1892–1916)
Bertolt Brecht (1898–1956)
Playwrights influenced by Expressionism:
expressionism: Lyrical Abstraction in the United States and Canada beginning during the late 1960s and the 1970s.
expressionism: As the play ends, he slaughters all around him (in the words of the text) "like mosquitoes." The extreme simplification of characters to mythic types, choral effects, declamatory dialogue and heightened intensity all would become characteristic of later expressionist plays.
expressionism: Director Leopold Jessner became famous for his expressionistic productions, often set on stark, steeply raked flights of stairs (having borrowed the idea from the Symbolist director and designer, Edward Gordon Craig).
expressionism: Modern Mexican architect Luis Barragán adopted the term that influenced his work.
expressionism: (an Expressionist rejects) immediate perception and builds on more complex psychic structures...
expressionism: However more generally, the term expressionism can be used to describe cinematic styles of great artifice, such as the technicolor melodramas of Douglas Sirk or the sound and visual design of David Lynch's films.
expressionism: In reaction and opposition to French Impressionism, which emphasized the rendering of the visual appearance of objects, Expressionist artists sought to portray emotions and subjective interpretations.
expressionism: Other American artists of the late 20th and early 21st century have developed distinct styles that may be considered part of Expressionism.
expressionism: Brazil: Anita Malfatti, Cândido Portinari, Di Cavalcanti, Iberê Camargo and Lasar Segall.
expressionism: Others focused on the expression of mood rather than a formal structure.
expressionism: Arnold Schoenberg, Anton Webern and Alban Berg, the members of the Second Viennese School, are important Expressionists (Schoenberg was also an expressionist painter).
expressionism: Bay Area Figurative Movement represented by early figurative expressionists from the San Francisco area Elmer Bischoff, Richard Diebenkorn, and David Park.
expressionism: Expressionist plays often dramatise the spiritual awakening and sufferings of their protagonists.
expressionism: Eliot
Rudolf Broby-Johansen
Tom Kristensen
Pär Lagerkvist
Edith Södergran
expressionism: German expressionist playwrights:
expressionism: Abstract expressionism of the 1950s represented American artists such as Louise Bourgeois, Hans Burkhardt, Mary Callery, Nicolas Carone, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock, Philip Guston, and others that participated with figurative expressionism.
expressionism: Other composers that have been associated with expressionism are Krenek (the Second Symphony), Paul Hindemith (The Young Maiden), Igor Stravinsky (Japanese Songs), Alexander Scriabin (late piano sonatas) (Adorno 2009, 275).
expressionism: Lawrence
Sheila Watson: Double Hook
Elias Canetti: Auto-da-Fé
Thomas Pynchon
William Faulkner
James Hanley (1897–1985)
Raul Brandão (1867–1930): Húmus (1917)
Leonid Andreyev (1871–1919): Devil's Diary (1919)
expressionism: Expressionism was a dominant influence on early 20th-century German theatre, of which Georg Kaiser and Ernst Toller were the most famous playwrights.
expressionism: Major figurative Boston Expressionists included: Karl Zerbe, Hyman Bloom, Jack Levine, David Aronson.
expressionism: New York Figurative Expressionism of the 1950s represented New York figurative artists such as Robert Beauchamp, Elaine de Kooning, Robert Goodnough, Grace Hartigan, Lester Johnson, Alex Katz, George McNeil (artist), Jan Muller, Fairfield Porter, Gregorio Prestopino, Larry Rivers and Bob Thompson.
expressionism: The two of them collaborated in the project Torres de Satélite (1957–58) guided by Goeritz's principles of Arquitectura Emocional.
expressionism: Their pioneering efforts were continued in 1929 by William Henry Fox, director of the Brooklyn Museum, who also advocated for the promotion of modern, and in particular, Expressionist art.
