fascism: Paxton argues:
fascism: The Italian Fascists' political anthem was called Giovinezza ("The Youth").
fascism: Fascist philosophies vary by application, but remain distinct by one theoretical commonality: all traditionally fall into the far-right sector of any political spectrum, catalyzed by afflicted class identities over conventional social inequities.
fascism: Chinese Marxists used the term to denounce the Soviet Union during the Sino-Soviet split, and the Soviets used the term to denounce Chinese Marxists, in addition to social democracy, coining a new term in social fascism.
fascism: In 1936, Germany remilitarized the industrial Rhineland, a region that had been ordered demilitarized by the Treaty of Versailles.
fascism: The unemployment rate was cut substantially, mostly through arms production and sending women home so that men could take their jobs.
fascism: Yet the organization was "feared and disliked among society's poorest" because it resorted to intrusive questioning and monitoring to judge who was worthy of support.
fascism: Anti-fascism is a political movement in opposition to fascist ideologies, groups and individuals.
fascism: In general, fascists held an instrumental view of capitalism, regarding it as a tool that may be useful or not, depending on circumstances.
fascism: The symbolism of the fasces suggested strength through unity: a single rod is easily broken, while the bundle is difficult to break.
fascism: British Fascism was non-interventionist, though it did embrace the British Empire.
fascism: Saint Simon's vision combined the traditionalist right-wing criticisms of the French Revolution with a left-wing belief in the need for association or collaboration of productive people in society.
fascism: Plenge believed that racial solidarity (Volksgemeinschaft) would replace class division and that "racial comrades" would unite to create a socialist society in the struggle of "proletarian" Germany against "capitalist" Britain.
fascism: However, not all historians agree with this identification, which they consider debatable or even false, biased by a pejorative political position.
fascism: For non-Aryans, abortion was often compulsory.
fascism: Benito Mussolini upon being expelled from his position as chief editor of the PSI's newspaper Avanti!
fascism: Yale historian Timothy Snyder has stated, "Putin's regime is ...
fascism: An undemocratic political system, different from both traditional authoritarianism and totalitarianism;
Statism and hypernationalism;
A hypermasculine cult of the supreme leader (emphasis on his courage, militancy and physical prowess);
General popular support for the regime and its leader.
fascism: The March on Rome brought fascism international attention.
fascism: a new free spirit will triumph over God and over Nothing."
fascism: for his anti-German stance, joined the interventionist cause in a separate fascio.
fascism: Italian fascism gravitated to the right in the early 1920s.
fascism: Nevertheless, while condemning parasitical capitalism, it was willing to accommodate productivist capitalism within it so long as it supported the nationalist objective.
fascism: The basis of fascism's support of violent action in politics is connected to social Darwinism.
fascism: Mussolini's The Doctrine of Fascism (1932), partly ghostwritten by philosopher Giovanni Gentile, who Mussolini described as "the philosopher of Fascism", states: "The Fascist conception of the State is all-embracing; outside of it no human or spiritual values can exist, much less have value.
fascism: The Blackshirts wanted to establish fascism as a complete dictatorship, while the former ANI members, including Alfredo Rocco, sought to institute an authoritarian corporatist state to replace the liberal state in Italy while retaining the existing elites.
fascism: Corradini spoke of the need for a nationalist-syndicalist movement, led by elitist aristocrats and anti-democrats who shared a revolutionary syndicalist commitment to direct action and a willingness to fight.
fascism: Fascism denounced Marxism for its advocacy of materialist internationalist class identity, which fascists regarded as an attack upon the emotional and spiritual bonds of the nation and a threat to the achievement of genuine national solidarity.
fascism: Italian Fascism called for women to be honoured as "reproducers of the nation", and the Italian Fascist government held ritual ceremonies to celebrate women's role within the Italian nation.
fascism: Italy's policy of autarky failed to achieve effective economic autonomy.
fascism: German sociologist Johann Plenge spoke of the rise of a "National Socialism" in Germany within what he termed the "ideas of 1914" that were a declaration of war against the "ideas of 1789" (the French Revolution).
fascism: The fascist view of a nation is of a single organic entity that binds people together by their ancestry and is a natural unifying force of people.
fascism: Fascism became the state ideology of Italy in 1922 and of Germany in 1933, spurring a large increase in anti-fascist action, including German resistance to Nazism and the Italian resistance movement.
fascism: New theories of social and political psychology rejected the notion of human behaviour being governed by rational choice and instead claimed that emotion was more influential in political issues than reason.
fascism: Such scholarship focuses on its social conservatism and its authoritarian means of opposing egalitarianism.
fascism: Fascism may also centre around an ingroup-outgroup opposition and demonization of "Others", such as various ethnicities, immigrants, nations, races, political opponents of fascist parties, religious groups, and sexual and gender minorities.
fascism: Maurras held interest in merging his nationalist ideals with Sorelian syndicalism as a means to confront democracy.
fascism: In the 1930s, the Nazis implemented racial laws that deliberately discriminated against, disenfranchised and persecuted Jews and other racial and minority groups.
fascism: Fascism was founded during World War I by Italian national syndicalists who drew upon both left-wing organizational tactics and right-wing political views.
fascism: After seizing these cities, the fascists made plans to take Rome.
fascism: Political historian Martin Blinkhorn estimated Italy's scope of state intervention and ownership "greatly surpassed that in Nazi Germany, giving Italy a public sector second only to that of Stalin's Russia".
fascism: This policy was reinforced by bestowing the Cross of Honor of the German Mother on women bearing four or more children.
fascism: The term neo-fascism refers to fascist movements that generally originated after World War II.
fascism: The term "fascism" was first used in 1915 by members of Mussolini's movement, the Fasces of Revolutionary Action.
fascism: He denounced the contemporary "supercapitalism" that he claimed began in 1914 as a failure because of its alleged decadence, its support for unlimited consumerism, and its intention to create the "standardization of humankind".
fascism: Mussolini's use of Nietzsche made him a highly unorthodox socialist, due to Nietzsche's promotion of elitism and anti-egalitarian views.
fascism: Bergson's claim of the existence of an élan vital, or vital instinct, centred upon free choice and rejected the processes of materialism and determinism; this challenged Marxism.
fascism: The leader proposes that only he can solve it and all of his political opponents are enemies or traitors.
fascism: The fascists assisted the anti-socialist campaign by allying with the other parties and the conservative right in a mutual effort to destroy the Italian Socialist Party and labour organizations committed to class identity above national identity.
fascism: The ANI had ties and influence among conservatives, Catholics, and the business community.
fascism: They welcomed fascism and supported its violent suppression of opponents on the left.
fascism: Such demonization has motivated fascist regimes to commit massacres, forced sterilizations, deportations, and genocides.
fascism: The law allowed abortion if a woman gave her permission and the fetus was not yet viable and for purposes of so-called racial hygiene.
fascism: In 1917, Mussolini, as leader of the Fasces of Revolutionary Action, praised the October Revolution, but later he became unimpressed with Lenin, regarding him as merely a new version of Tsar Nicholas II.
fascism: Non-Aryans were excluded, as well as the "work-shy", "asocials" and the "hereditarily ill".
fascism: Anti-fascism has been an element of movements across the political spectrum and holding many different political positions such as anarchism, communism, pacifism, republicanism, social democracy, socialism and syndicalism as well as centrist, conservative, liberal and nationalist viewpoints.
fascism: Fascist propaganda aggrandized this event, known as "March on Rome", as a "seizure" of power because of Fascists' heroic exploits.
fascism: Child quoted Mussolini as saying: "The sanctity of an ism is not in the ism; it has no sanctity beyond its power to do, to work, to succeed in practice.
fascism: Their intellectual school considered the individual as only one part of the larger collectivity, which should not be viewed as a numerical sum of atomized individuals.
fascism: Initially, little drastic change in government policy had occurred and repressive police actions were limited.
fascism: An International Military Tribunal was subsequently convened in Nuremberg.
fascism: the National Fascist Party's Blackshirts and the Nazi Party's Sturmabteilung (commonly known as the Brownshirts).
fascism: Federico Finchelstein wrote that fascism ...encompassed totalitarianism, state terrorism, imperialism, racism and, in the German case, the most radical genocide of the last century: the Holocaust.
fascism: By the late 1930s, Mussolini became more vocal in his anti-clerical rhetoric, repeatedly denouncing the Catholic Church and discussing ways to depose the pope.
fascism: Fascist Italy promoted what it considered normal sexual behaviour in youth while denouncing what it considered deviant sexual behaviour.
fascism: In 1934, Mussolini declared that employment of women was a "major aspect of the thorny problem of unemployment" and that for women, working was "incompatible with childbearing"; Mussolini went on to say that the solution to unemployment for men was the "exodus of women from the work force".
fascism: The Fascists managed to seize control of several post offices and trains in northern Italy while the Italian government, led by a left-wing coalition, was internally divided and unable to respond to the Fascist advances.
fascism: The conditions of economic hardship caused by the Great Depression brought about an international surge of social unrest.
fascism: The Iron Guard was the only fascist movement outside Germany and Italy to come to power without foreign assistance.
fascism: For example, Nazism and Italian Fascism were expansionist and irredentist.
fascism: Prior to that period, there had been notable Jewish Italians who had been senior Italian fascist officials, including Margherita Sarfatti, who had also been Mussolini's mistress.
fascism: Angelo Oliviero Olivetti formed a pro-interventionist fascio called the Revolutionary Fasces of International Action in October 1914.
fascism: Edgar Hoover, longtime FBI director and ardent anti-communist, wrote extensively of red fascism.
fascism: Upon accommodating the political right, there arose a group of monarchist fascists who sought to use fascism to create an absolute monarchy under King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy.
fascism: Paxton says: "Where Franco subjected Spain's fascist party to his personal control, Salazar abolished outright in July 1934 the nearest thing Portugal had to an authentic fascist movement, Rolão Preto's blue-shirted National Syndicalists.
fascism: Umberto Eco lists fourteen "features that are typical of what [he] would like to call 'Ur-Fascism', or 'Eternal Fascism'.
fascism: However, Italian fascism did not endorse antisemitism until the late 1930s when Mussolini feared alienating antisemitic Nazi Germany, whose power and influence were growing in Europe.
fascism: The term fascist has been used as a pejorative, regarding varying movements across the far right of the political spectrum.
fascism: The war resulted in the rise of a powerful state capable of mobilizing millions of people to serve on the front lines, providing logistics to support them, and having unprecedented authority to intervene in the lives of citizens.
fascism: Prior to fascism's accommodations to the political right, fascism was a small, urban, northern Italian movement that had about a thousand members.
fascism: "Fascist style" – a political aesthetic of romantic symbolism, mass mobilization, a positive view of violence, and promotion of masculinity, youth, and charismatic authoritarian leadership.
fascism: During World War II, the Axis Powers in Europe led by Nazi Germany participated in the extermination of millions of Poles, Jews, Roma, Sinti and others in the genocide known as the Holocaust.
fascism: Fascist is sometimes applied to post-World War II organizations and ways of thinking that academics more commonly term neo-fascist.
fascism: In Germany, various neo-Nazi movements have been formed and banned in accordance with Germany's constitutional law which forbids Nazism.
fascism: Between 1939 and 1941, prior to his rise to power, Perón had developed a deep admiration of Italian Fascism and modelled his economic policies on Italian fascist policies.
fascism: The Ku Klux Klan of the 1920s has sometimes been called fascist.
fascism: Since the end of World War II in 1945, fascism has been largely disgraced, and few parties have openly described themselves as fascist; the term is often used pejoratively by political opponents.
fascism: fascism redrew the frontiers between private and public, sharply diminishing what had once been untouchably private.
fascism: almost any English person would accept 'bully' as a synonym for 'Fascist'", University of Wales historian Richard Griffiths wrote in 2000 that "fascism" is the "most misused, and over-used word, of our times".
fascism: In 2013, after the murder of an anti-fascist musician by a person with links to Golden Dawn, the Greek government ordered the arrest of Golden Dawn's leader Nikolaos Michaloliakos and other members on charges related to being associated with a criminal organization.
fascism: Additionally, other historians have applied this minimalist core to explore proto-fascist movements.
fascism: They cite in particular its exaltation of the Leader, the race, and the state, rather than the people.
fascism: Fascist modernism has been recognized as inspired or developed by various figures—such as Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, Ernst Jünger, Gottfried Benn, Louis-Ferdinand Céline, Knut Hamsun, Ezra Pound and Wyndham Lewis.
fascism: In 2003, historian Adrian Lyttelton wrote: "The expansion of Fascism in the rural areas was stimulated and directed by the reaction of the farmers and landowners against the peasant leagues of both Socialists and Catholics."
fascism: Fascist movements have commonly held social Darwinist views of nations, races, and societies.
fascism: Fascist parties were closely contested by anti-fascist movements from the political centre and left wing throughout the Interwar period.
fascism: Beginning in November 1945 and lasting through 1949, numerous Nazi political, military and economic leaders were tried and convicted of war crimes, with many of the worst offenders being sentenced to death and executed.
fascism: A major element of fascist ideology that has been deemed to be far right is its stated goal to promote the right of a supposedly superior people to dominate, while purging society of supposedly inferior elements.
fascism: The German Nazi government strongly encouraged women to stay at home to bear children and keep house.
fascism: Under these conditions, by 1939, over 17 million Germans had obtained assistance from the NSV, and the agency "projected a powerful image of caring and support" for "those who were judged to have got into difficulties through no fault of their own".
fascism: Racism was a key feature of German fascism, for which the Holocaust was a high priority.
fascism: Finally, it unleashed aggressive emotions hitherto known in Europe only during war or social revolution.
fascism: According to Jean-Yves Camus and Nicolas Lebourg, the neo-fascist ideology emerged in 1942, after Nazi Germany invaded the USSR and decided to reorient its propaganda on a Europeanist ground.
fascism: Mussolini proclaimed himself dictator of Italy, assuming full responsibility over the government and announcing the dismissal of parliament.
fascism: He conceived of a society based on a totalitarian concept of "total mobilization" of such disciplined warrior-workers.
fascism: According to Griffin, fascism as an ideology includes: "(i) the rebirth myth, (ii) populist ultra-nationalism, and (iii) the myth of decadence".
fascism: The October Revolution of 1917, in which Bolshevik communists led by Vladimir Lenin seized power in Russia, greatly influenced the development of fascism.
fascism: Other historians, including Fernando Rosas and Manuel Villaverde Cabral, think that the Estado Novo should be considered fascist.
fascism: Since the Great Recession of 2008, fascism has seen an international surge in popularity, alongside closely associated phenomena like xenophobia, antisemitism, authoritarianism and euroskepticism.
fascism: What constitutes a precise definition of fascism has been a longrunning and complex debate among scholars.
fascism: On 30 April 1945, Hitler committed suicide.
fascism: Other authors, such as the historian Raanan Rein, categorically maintain that Perón was not a fascist and that this characterization was imposed on him because of his defiant stance against US hegemony.
fascism: Walter Laqueur argues "[t]he corollaries of the cult of war and physical danger were the cult of brutality, strength, and sexuality ...
fascism: In the United States, Herbert Matthews of The New York Times asked in 1946: "Should we now place Stalinist Russia in the same category as Hitlerite Germany?
fascism: Through considerable fascist violence and intimidation, the list won a majority of the vote, allowing many seats to go to the fascists.
fascism: argue that while fascist economies share some similarities, there is no distinctive form of fascist economic organization.
fascism: It may have succeeded yesterday and fail to-morrow.
fascism: Corradini spoke of Italy as being a "proletarian nation" that needed to pursue imperialism in order to challenge the "plutocratic" French and British.
fascism: One of the most common and strongest criticisms of fascism is that it is a tyranny.
fascism: Prominent members of the school include Stanley G.
fascism: Marlene Laruelle, a French political scientist, contends in Is Russia Fascist?
fascism: Fascism ( FASH-iz-əm) is a far-right, authoritarian, and ultranationalist political ideology and movement that rose to prominence in early-20th-century Europe.
fascism: Robert Paxton finds that even though fascism "maintained the existing regime of property and social hierarchy", it cannot be considered "simply a more muscular form of conservatism" because "fascism in power did carry out some changes profound enough to be called 'revolutionary'".
fascism: Mussolini's coalition government initially pursued economically liberal policies under the direction of liberal finance minister Alberto De Stefani, a member of the center of the National Fascist Party, including balancing the budget through deep cuts to the civil service.
fascism: Similar political ideas arose in Germany after the outbreak of the war.
fascism: Open homosexuals were interned in Nazi concentration camps.
fascism: They considered homosexuality curable through therapy, citing modern scientism and the study of sexology.
fascism: They refer to the combination of populism, authoritarianism and ultranationalism as "a marriage of convenience".
fascism: The defeat of the Axis powers in World War II and subsequent revelation of the crimes against humanity committed during the Holocaust by Germany have led to an almost universal condemnation of both past and present forms of fascism in the modern era.
fascism: Payne's definition of fascism focuses on three concepts:
fascism: It attempted to purge ideas that were not consistent with the beliefs of the fascist movement and to teach students to be obedient to the state.
fascism: Gerald Feldman and Timothy Mason argue that fascism is distinguished by an absence of coherent economic ideology and a lack of serious economic thinking.
fascism: Shortly afterwards, Germany surrendered and the Nazi regime was systematically dismantled by the occupying Allied powers.
fascism: In promoting the nation's regeneration, fascists seek to purge it of decadence.
fascism: Historian and cultural critic Ruth Ben-Ghiat has described fascism as "the original phase of authoritarianism, along with early communism, when a population has undergone huge dislocations or they perceive that there's been changes in society that are very rapid, too rapid for their taste".
fascism: Fascism sought to accommodate Italian conservatives by making major alterations to its political agenda—abandoning its previous populism, republicanism and anticlericalism, adopting policies in support of free enterprise and accepting the Catholic Church and the monarchy as institutions in Italy.
fascism: "Fascism" is today used across the political spectrum as a pejorative or byword for perceived authoritarianism and other forms of political evil.
fascism: Payne, Paxton, Sternhell et al.
fascism: The Italian Socialist Party (PSI) opposed the war but a number of Italian revolutionary syndicalists supported war against Germany and Austria-Hungary on the grounds that their reactionary regimes had to be defeated to ensure the success of socialism.
fascism: Many fascists saw the Charter of Carnaro as an ideal constitution for a fascist Italy.
fascism: Fascists criticized egalitarianism as preserving the weak and instead promoted social Darwinist views and policies.
fascism: Unlike the social welfare institutions of the Weimar Republic and the Christian charities, the NSV distributed assistance on explicitly racial grounds.
fascism: Fascism had a complex relationship with capitalism, both supporting and opposing different aspects of it at different times and in different countries.
fascism: These words in any case do not have a fixed and unchanged meaning: they do have a variable subject to location, time and spirit.
fascism: After antagonism exploded between Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy over the assassination of Austrian Chancellor Dollfuss in 1934, Mussolini and Italian fascists denounced and ridiculed Nazism's racial theories, particularly by denouncing its Nordicism, while promoting Mediterraneanism.
fascism: Fascists idealized Maurras' integral nationalism, but modified into a modernized revolutionary form - devoid of Maurras' monarchism.
fascism: The Nazis said that homosexuality was degenerate, effeminate, perverted, and undermined masculinity because it did not produce children.
fascism: During the war, the Axis powers were opposed by many countries forming the Allies, and by dozens of resistance movements worldwide.
fascism: Historian Ian Kershaw once wrote, "Trying to define 'fascism' is like trying to nail jelly to the wall." Each group described as "fascist" has at least some unique elements, and frequently definitions of "fascism" have been criticized as either too broad or too narrow.
fascism: In 1939, Germany prepared for war with Poland, but attempted to gain territorial concessions from Poland through diplomatic means.
fascism: According to Italian fascist dictator Benito Mussolini's own account, the Fasces of Revolutionary Action were founded in Italy in 1915.
fascism: French nationalist and reactionary monarchist Charles Maurras influenced fascism.
fascism: Fascist propaganda blamed the problems of the long depression of the 1930s on minorities and scapegoats: "Judeo-Masonic-bolshevik" conspiracies, left-wing internationalism and the presence of immigrants.
fascism: "Fascist goals" – the creation of a nationalist dictatorship to regulate economic structure and to transform social relations within a modern, self-determined culture, and the expansion of the nation into an empire.
fascism: After the election of Donald Trump, fascist groups began coalescing around his right-wing populism to take advantage of it.
fascism: Unlike Marxism, fascism did not see class conflict between the Marxist-defined proletariat and the bourgeoisie as a given or as an engine of historical materialism.
fascism: In 1919, Mussolini consolidated control over the fascist movement, known as Sansepolcrismo, with the founding of the Italian Fasces of Combat.
fascism: While fascism opposed mainstream socialism, fascists sometimes regarded their movement as a type of nationalist "socialism" to highlight their commitment to nationalism, describing it as national solidarity and unity.
fascism: Historically, most fascists promoted imperialism, although there have been several fascist movements that were uninterested in the pursuit of new imperial ambitions.
fascism: Education was designed to glorify the fascist movement and inform students of its historical and political importance to the nation.
fascism: Corradini's views were part of a wider set of perceptions within the right-wing Italian Nationalist Association (ANI, founded in 1910), which claimed that Italy's economic backwardness was caused by corruption in its political class, liberalism, and division caused by "ignoble socialism".
fascism: European fascist movements typically espouse a racist conception of non-Europeans being inferior to Europeans.
fascism: From 1925 to 1929, fascism steadily became entrenched in power: opposition deputies were denied access to parliament, censorship was introduced and a December 1925 decree made Mussolini solely responsible to the King.
fascism: Fascist economics supported a state-controlled economy that accepted a mix of private and public ownership over the means of production.
fascism: Fascist movements grew in strength elsewhere in Europe.
fascism: that the accusation of "fascist" has evolved into a strategic narrative of the existing world order.
fascism: During World War II, the genocidal and imperialist ambitions of the fascist regimes of the Axis powers resulted in the murder of millions of people.
fascism: In 1919, Mussolini founded the Italian Fasces of Combat in Milan, which became the National Fascist Party two years later.
fascism: The first years were characterized by a repression against the anti-fascist ideologies, deep censorship and the suppression of democratic institutions (elected Parliament, Spanish Constitution of 1931, Regional Statutes of Autonomy).
fascism: Historian Robert Paxton observes that one of the main problems in defining fascism is that it was widely mimicked.
fascism: Fascist Italy's official foreign policy positions commonly used rhetorical ideological hyperbole to justify its actions, although during Dino Grandi's tenure as Italy's foreign minister the country engaged in realpolitik free of such fascist hyperbole.
fascism: At the same time from 1938 to 1939, Italy was demanding territorial and colonial concessions from France and Britain.
fascism: In 1940, Mussolini led Italy into World War II on the side of the Axis.
fascism: the new political and economic forms of the twentieth-century are fascist'.
fascism: "Fascist negations" – anti-liberalism, anti-communism, and anti-conservatism.
fascism: Millions of civilians perished on a global scale during the apogee of fascist ideologies in Europe and beyond.
fascism: These features cannot be organized into a system; many of them contradict each other, and are also typical of other kinds of despotism or fanaticism.
fascism: Fascism also had adherents outside of Europe.
fascism: He claims that Nazism and communism are essentially manifestations of populism, and that states such as Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy are more different from each other than they are similar.
fascism: In 2017, the Unite the Right rally saw marchers come together from a variety of far-right groups and movements, including members of the alt-right, neo-Confederates, neo-fascists, white nationalists, neo-Nazis, Klansmen, and far-right militias.
fascism: Mussolini, as I have learned to know him, is an opportunist in the sense that he believed that mankind itself must be fitted to changing conditions rather than to fixed theories, no matter how many hopes and prayers have been expended on theories and programmes.
fascism: Thus populism can be found as an aspect of many specific ideologies, without necessarily being a defining characteristic of those ideologies.
fascism: Nazi propaganda sometimes promoted premarital and extramarital sexual relations, unwed motherhood and divorce, but at other times the Nazis opposed such behaviour.
fascism: Fascism emphasizes youth both in a physical sense of age and a spiritual sense as related to virility and commitment to action.
fascism: Organization against fascism began around 1920.
fascism: The Great Depression in Germany contributed to the rise of the Nazi Party, which resulted in the demise of the Weimar Republic and the establishment of the fascist regime, Nazi Germany, under the leadership of Adolf Hitler.
fascism: Attempts to hold mass meetings were ineffective and the organization was regularly harassed by government authorities and socialists.
fascism: It changed the practice of citizenship from the enjoyment of constitutional rights and duties to participation in mass ceremonies of affirmation and conformity.
fascism: Futurism influenced fascism in its emphasis on recognizing the virile nature of violent action and war as necessities of modern civilization.
fascism: the world center of fascism" and has written an article entitled "We Should Say It: Russia Is Fascist".
fascism: Economic self-sufficiency, known as autarky, was a major goal of most fascist governments.
fascism: Instead, it viewed workers and productive capitalists in common as productive people who were in conflict with parasitic elements in society, including corrupt political parties, corrupt financial capital, and feeble people.
fascism: Italy claimed Fiume on the principle of self-determination, disregarding the 50.4% of its population that were Yugoslavs.
fascism: Fascists saw World War I as a revolution that brought massive changes to the nature of war, society, the state, and technology.
fascism: in an attempt to generate mass support", it is better seen as an elitist ideology.
fascism: Fascism promotes the nation's regeneration and purging it of decadence.
fascism: Maurras claimed that a powerful monarch was a personified sovereign who could exercise authority to unite a nation's people.
fascism: However, the outbreak of World War II greatly changed Western perceptions, and fascism was seen as an existential threat by not only the communist Soviet Union but also by the liberal-democratic United States and United Kingdom.
fascism: In Reflections on Violence, Sorel emphasized need for a revolutionary political religion.
fascism: They see populism as a "thin-centered ideology" with a "restricted morphology" that necessarily becomes attached to "thick-centered" ideologies such as fascism, liberalism, or socialism.
fascism: World War I had resulted in the rise of a powerful state capable of mobilizing millions of people to serve on the front lines or provide economic production and logistics to support those on the front lines, as well as having unprecedented authority to intervene in the lives of citizens.
fascism: Fascists presented their views as an alternative to both international socialism and free-market economics.
fascism: Fascism views forms of violence—including political violence, imperialist violence, and war—as means to national rejuvenation.
fascism: On 24 October 1922, the Fascist Party held its annual congress in Naples, where Mussolini ordered Blackshirts to take control of public buildings and trains and to converge on three points around Rome.
fascism: Upon being appointed Prime Minister of Italy, Mussolini had to form a coalition government because the fascists did not have control over the Italian parliament.
fascism: We don't give a damn about these empty terminologies and we despise those who are terrorized by these words."
Major Italian groups politically on the right, especially rich landowners and big business, feared an uprising by groups on the left, such as sharecroppers and labour unions.
fascism: The descriptions neo-fascist or post-fascist are sometimes applied to contemporary parties with ideologies similar to, or rooted in, 20th-century fascist movements.
fascism: It provided support only to those who were "racially sound, capable of and willing to work, politically reliable, and willing and able to reproduce".
fascism: In particular, fascists criticized capitalism, not because of its competitive nature nor support of private property, which fascists supported—but due to its materialism, individualism, alleged bourgeois decadence and alleged indifference to the nation.
fascism: Mussolini adopted this view in his description of the proletarian character.
fascism: D'Annunzio and De Ambris designed the Charter, which advocated national-syndicalist corporatist productionism alongside D'Annunzio's political views.
fascism: Geopolitical rivals might construct their own view of the world and assert the moral high ground by branding ideological rivals as fascists, regardless of their real ideals or deeds.
fascism: Before World War II, the West had not taken seriously the threat of fascism, and anti-fascism was sometimes associated with communism.
fascism: The Polish government did not trust Hitler's promises and refused to accept Germany's demands.
fascism: Opposed to communism, democracy, liberalism, pluralism, and socialism, fascism is at the far-right of the traditional left–right spectrum.
fascism: In 2008, AN joined Forza Italia in Berlusconi's new party The People of Freedom, but in 2012 a group of politicians split from The People of Freedom, refounding the party with the name Brothers of Italy.
fascism: The dominant forces of the 19th century, democracy, socialism, [and] liberalism have been exhausted ...
fascism: Fascism emphasizes both palingenesis—national rebirth or regeneration—and modernity when it is deemed compatible with national rebirth.
fascism: The Nazis, led by Hitler and the German war hero Erich Ludendorff, attempted a "March on Berlin" modeled upon the March on Rome, which resulted in the failed Beer Hall Putsch in Munich in November 1923.
fascism: Resistance during World War II to fascism occurred in every occupied country, and came from across the ideological spectrum.
fascism: Falangism in Spain envisioned the worldwide unification of Spanish-speaking peoples (Hispanidad).
fascism: Victor Emmanuel III decided to appoint Mussolini as Prime Minister of Italy and Mussolini arrived in Rome on 30 October to accept the appointment.
fascism: After World War I, fascists commonly campaigned on anti-Marxist agendas.
fascism: These transformations "often set fascists into conflict with conservatives rooted in families, churches, social rank, and property".
fascism: Whereas Marxism condemned capitalism as a system of exploitative property relations, fascism saw the nature of the control of credit and money in the contemporary capitalist system as abusive.
fascism: Modern antifa politics in the United States and Britain can be traced to opposition to the infiltration of the American and British punk scenes by white power skinheads in the 1970s and 1980s.
fascism: There was a further increase in antifascism following the increase in neo-Nazism in Germany after the fall of the Berlin Wall.
fascism: Fascists often advocate for the establishment of a totalitarian one-party state, and for a dirigiste economy, which is a market economy in which the state plays a strong directive role through market intervention with the principal goal of achieving national economic self-sufficiency, or "autarky".
fascism: Salazar's regime was not only non-fascist, but 'voluntarily non-totalitarian,' preferring to let those of its citizens who kept out of politics 'live by habit.'" However, historians tend to view the Estado Novo as para-fascist in nature, possessing minimal fascist tendencies.
fascism: Guilty verdicts were delivered on charges of murder, attempted murder, and violent attacks on immigrants and left-wing political opponents.
fascism: Fascism is deliberately and entirely non-democratic and anti-democratic.
fascism: Hitler stated that the Nazi Party supported bodenständigen Kapitalismus ("productive capitalism") that was based upon profit earned from one's own labour, but condemned unproductive capitalism or loan capitalism, which derived profit from speculation.
fascism: Cas Mudde and Cristóbal Rovira Kaltwasser argue that although fascism "flirted with populism ...
fascism: During the 6 February 1934 crisis, France faced the greatest domestic political turmoil since the Dreyfus Affair when the fascist Francist Movement and multiple far-right movements rioted en masse in Paris against the French government resulting in major political violence.
fascism: The fusion of Maurrassian nationalism and Sorelian syndicalism influenced radical Italian nationalist Enrico Corradini (1865-1931).
fascism: Historian Peter Amann states that, "Undeniably, the Klan had some traits in common with European fascism—chauvinism, racism, a mystique of violence, an affirmation of a certain kind of archaic traditionalism—yet their differences were fundamental ...
fascism: Nazi Germany similarly pursued an economic agenda with the aims of autarky and rearmament and imposed protectionist policies, including forcing the German steel industry to use lower-quality German iron ore rather than superior-quality imported iron.
fascism: By 1902, Mussolini was studying Georges Sorel, Nietzsche and Vilfredo Pareto.
fascism: Mussolini and the fascists took advantage of the situation by allying with industrial businesses and attacking workers and peasants in the name of preserving order and internal peace in Italy.
fascism: Historian Stanley G.
fascism: Economic planning was applied to both the public and private sectors, and the prosperity of private enterprise depended on its acceptance of synchronizing itself with the economic goals of the state.
fascism: Salazar preferred to control his population through such 'organic' institutions traditionally powerful in Portugal as the Church.
fascism: At the outbreak of World War I in August 1914, the Italian political left became severely split over its position on the war.
fascism: Payne, Roger Griffin, and Roger Eatwell, who defined their theories as the "new consensus".
fascism: In Italy, the Italian Social Movement led by Giorgio Almirante was a major neo-fascist movement that transformed itself into a self-described "post-fascist" movement called the National Alliance (AN), which has been an ally of Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia for a decade.
fascism: Fascist governments typically established close connections between big business and the state, and business was expected to serve the interests of the government.
fascism: They regarded civilization as being in crisis, and as requiring a massive and total solution.
fascism: The Italian term fascismo is derived from fascio, meaning 'bundle of sticks', ultimately from the Latin word fasces.
fascism: According to many scholars, fascists—especially when they are in power—have historically attacked communism, socialism, and parliamentary liberalism, attracting support primarily from the far-right.
fascism: The fin-de-siècle outlook was influenced by various intellectual developments, including Darwinian biology, Gesamtkunstwerk, Arthur de Gobineau's racialism, Gustave Le Bon's psychology, and the philosophies of Friedrich Nietzsche, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, and Henri Bergson.
fascism: Should we say that she is Fascist?" J.
fascism: Around this period, a number of prominent fascist groups were also founded, including the Proud Boys and Patriot Front.
fascism: The historian Zeev Sternhell has traced the ideological roots of fascism back to the 1880s and in particular to the fin de siècle theme of that time.
fascism: A variety of para-fascist governments that borrowed elements from fascism were formed during the Great Depression, including those of Greece, Lithuania, Poland and Yugoslavia.
fascism: It also called for the fulfillment of expansionist aims in the Balkans and other parts of the Mediterranean, the creation of a short-service national militia to serve defensive duties, nationalization of the armaments industry, and a foreign policy designed to be peaceful but also competitive.
fascism: Fascism admired advances in the economy in the early 20th century, particularly Fordism and scientific management.
fascism: Sorel began to support reactionary Maurrassian nationalism beginning in 1909, and this influenced his works.
fascism: Fascism emphasizes direct action, including supporting the legitimacy of political violence, as a core part of its politics.
fascism: Beginning in the 1920s, Fascist Italy pursued an aggressive foreign policy that included ambitions to expand Italian territory.
fascism: Despite fascist movements' history of anti-communism, Communist states have sometimes been referred to as fascist, typically as an insult.
fascism: From the late 1980s, the squatter scene and autonomism movement in West Germany were important in an upswing of antifa in Germany.
fascism: In Argentina, Peronism, associated with the regime of Juan Perón from 1946 to 1955 and 1973 to 1974, was influenced by fascism.
fascism: Fascism accepts forms of modernism that it deems promote national regeneration while rejecting forms of modernism regarded as antithetical to national regeneration.
fascism: But it is enough that one of them be present to allow fascism to coagulate around it." Historian John Lukacs argues that there is no such thing as generic fascism.
fascism: The National Democratic Party of Germany (NPD) is widely considered a neo-Nazi party, although the party does not publicly identify itself as such.
fascism: In 1938, Mussolini declared upon Italy's adoption of antisemitic laws that Italian fascism had always been antisemitic.
fascism: In the late 1930s, Italy enacted manufacturing cartels, tariff barriers, currency restrictions and massive regulation of the economy to attempt to balance payments.
fascism: Anti-fascism was a major aspect of the Spanish Civil War, which foreshadowed World War II.
fascism: On 7 October 2020, Athens Appeals Court announced verdicts for 68 defendants, including the party's political leadership.
fascism: In the aftermath of the election, a crisis and political scandal erupted after Socialist Party deputy Giacomo Matteotti was kidnapped and murdered by a Fascist.
fascism: It condemned pornography, most forms of birth control and contraceptive devices (with the exception of the condom), homosexuality and prostitution as deviant sexual behaviour.
fascism: The fascists met little serious resistance from authorities and proceeded to take over several northern Italian cities.
fascism: Prior to World War I, Mussolini's writings over time indicated that he had abandoned the Marxism and egalitarianism that he had previously supported in favour of Nietzsche's übermensch concept and anti-egalitarianism.
fascism: From 1914, Enrico Corradini developed the idea of "proletarian nations", defining proletarian as being one and the same with producers, a productivist perspective that associated all people deemed productive, including entrepreneurs, technicians, workers and soldiers as being proletarian.
fascism: The Nuremberg Trials convicted several Nazi leaders of crimes against humanity involving the Holocaust.
fascism: However, enforcement of laws opposed to such practices was erratic, and authorities often looked the other way.
fascism: Some, including Mussolini's socialist opponents at the time, have noted that regardless of the financial support he accepted for his pro-interventionist stance, Mussolini was free to write whatever he wished in his newspaper Il Popolo d'Italia without prior sanctioning from his financial backers.
fascism: Historian Emilio Gentile has defined fascism thusly:
fascism: While fascism accepted the importance of material wealth and power, it condemned materialism, which was identified as being present in both communism and capitalism, and criticized materialism for lacking acknowledgment of the role of the spirit.
fascism: On 3 January 1925, Mussolini addressed the Fascist-dominated Italian parliament and declared that he was personally responsible for what happened, but insisted that he had done nothing wrong.
fascism: Instead, claiming that Italians were a superior race to African races and thereby had the right to colonize the "inferior" Africans, it sought to settle 10 to 15 million Italians in Libya.
fascism: The IRI was made a permanent institution in Fascist Italy in 1937, pursued fascist policies to create national autarky and had the power to take over private firms to maximize war production.
fascism: The ANI claimed that liberal democracy was no longer compatible with the modern world, and advocated a strong state and imperialism.
fascism: a spirit equipped with a kind of sublime perversity, ...
fascism: After World War II and a period of international isolation, Franco's regime normalized relations with the Western powers during the Cold War, until Franco's death in 1975 and the transformation of Spain into a liberal democracy.
fascism: The fascists presented themselves as anti-communists and as especially opposed to the Marxists.
fascism: [fascism is] a true counter-civilization: rejecting the sophisticated rationalist humanism of Old Europe, fascism sets up as its ideal the primitive instincts and primal emotions of the barbarian."
Italian fascism pursued what it called "moral hygiene" of youth, particularly regarding sexuality.
fascism: However, there remained several movements and governments that were ideologically related to fascism.
fascism: Social Darwinism, which gained widespread acceptance, made no distinction between physical and social life, and viewed the human condition as an unceasing struggle to achieve the survival of the fittest.
fascism: The next events that influenced the fascists in Italy were the raid of Fiume by Italian nationalist Gabriele d'Annunzio and the founding of the Charter of Carnaro in 1920.
fascism: The Axis Powers of World War II were generally fascist, and the fight against them was characterized in anti-fascist terms.
fascism: Ultranationalism, combined with the myth of national rebirth, is a key foundation of fascism.
fascism: Fascist Italy created the Institute for Industrial Reconstruction (IRI), a giant state-owned firm and holding company that provided state funding to failing private enterprises.
fascism: The theme was based on a revolt against materialism, rationalism, positivism, bourgeois society, and democracy.
fascism: The fascists attacked the headquarters of socialist and Catholic labour unions in Cremona and imposed forced Italianization upon the German-speaking population of Bolzano.
fascism: Fascist leaders such as Mussolini and Hitler spoke of the need to create a new managerial elite led by engineers and captains of industry—but free from the parasitic leadership of industries.
fascism: With the rise of Hitler and the Nazis to power in 1933, liberal democracy was dissolved in Germany and the Nazis mobilized the country for war, with expansionist territorial aims against several countries.
fascism: [the KKK] never envisioned a change of political or economic system."
fascism: The more a person considers inequality to be unavoidable or even desirable, the further to the right he or she will be."
Fascism's origins are complex and include many seemingly contradictory viewpoints, ultimately centered on a mythos of national rebirth from decadence.
fascism: Orwell said that while fascism is "a political and economic system" that was inconvenient to define, "as used, the word 'Fascism' is almost entirely meaningless.
fascism: The fascists banned literature on birth control and increased penalties for abortion in 1926, declaring both crimes against the state.
fascism: After World War II, the anti-fascist movement continued to be active in places where organized fascism continued or re-emerged.
fascism: In 1939 Germany invaded Poland, the invasion of Poland was deemed unacceptable by Britain, France and their allies, leading to their mutual declaration of war against Germany and the start of World War II.
fascism: This resulted in an aggressive military campaign known as the Second Italo-Senussi War also known as the Pacification of Libya against natives in Libya, including mass killings, the use of concentration camps and the forced starvation of thousands of people.
fascism: The Nazi Party condemned the welfare system of the Weimar Republic, as well as private charity and philanthropy, for supporting people whom they regarded as racially inferior and weak and who should have been weeded out in the process of natural selection.
fascism: Italian authorities committed ethnic cleansing by forcibly expelling 100,000 Bedouin Cyrenaicans, half the population of Cyrenaica in Libya, from their settlements that was slated to be given to Italian settlers.
fascism: It has been applied to Marxist–Leninist regimes in Cuba under Fidel Castro and Vietnam under Ho Chi Minh.
fascism: According to Marlene Laurelle writing in The Washington Quarterly, "applying the "fascism" label ...
fascism: Mussolini was rescued from arrest by German forces and led the German client state, the Italian Social Republic from 1943 to 1945.
fascism: One early admirer of the Italian fascists was Adolf Hitler, who less than a month after the March had begun to model himself and the Nazi Party upon Mussolini and the Fascists.
fascism: The Nazis decriminalized abortion in cases where fetuses had hereditary defects or were of a race the government disapproved of, while the abortion of healthy pure German, Aryan fetuses remained strictly forbidden.
fascism: This behaviour of aggression towards Yugoslavia and South Slavs was pursued by Italian fascists with their persecution of South Slavs—especially Slovenes and Croats.
fascism: These theories have received criticism from other scholars, often for presenting a static and context-isolated "ideal type" (or set of ideas) disregarding the dynamic, contradictory and syncretic nature of fascism and its context.
fascism: Fascism's extreme authoritarianism and nationalism often manifest as a belief in racial purity or a master race, usually blended with some variant of racism or discrimination against a demonized "Other", such as Jews, homosexuals, transgender people, ethnic minorities, or immigrants.
fascism: Maurras promoted what he called integral nationalism, which called for the organic unity of a nation, and insisted that a powerful monarch was an ideal leader of a nation.
fascism: They say that nations and races must purge themselves of socially and biologically weak or degenerate people while simultaneously promoting the creation of strong people in order to survive in a world defined by perpetual national and racial conflict.
fascism: In 1919, Alceste De Ambris and futurist movement leader Filippo Tommaso Marinetti created "The Manifesto of the Italian Fasces of Combat".
fascism: Sorel's emphasis on the need for overthrowing decadent liberal democracy and capitalism by the use of violence, direct action, general strikes and neo-Machiavellian appeals to emotion impressed Mussolini deeply.
fascism: The IRI reported in early 1934 that they held assets of "48.5 percent of the share capital of Italy", which later included the capital of the banks themselves.
fascism: The fascists began their attempt to entrench fascism in Italy with the Acerbo Law, which guaranteed a plurality of the seats in parliament to any party or coalition list in an election that received 25% or more of the vote.
fascism: Eatwell defines fascism as "an ideology that strives to forge social rebirth based on a holistic-national radical Third Way".
fascism: In response to revolt in the Italian colony of Libya, Fascist Italy abandoned previous liberal-era colonial policy of cooperation with local leaders.
fascism: It reconfigured relations between the individual and the collectivity, so that an individual had no rights outside community interest.
fascism: The defeat of the Axis powers generally ended fascism as a state ideology.
fascism: He emphasized an "organic construction" between humans and machines as a liberating and regenerative force that challenged liberal democracy, conceptions of individual autonomy, bourgeois nihilism, and decadence.
fascism: King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy perceived the risk of bloodshed in Rome in response to attempting to disperse the Fascists to be too high.
fascism: Fascist governments advocated for the resolution of domestic class conflict within a nation in order to guarantee national unity.
fascism: Roderick Stackelberg places fascism—including Nazism, which he says is "a radical variant of fascism"—on the political right by explaining: "The more a person deems absolute equality among all people to be a desirable condition, the further left he or she will be on the ideological spectrum.
fascism: According to Griffin, fascism is "a revolutionary form of nationalism" seeking to destroy the old system and remake society, and that Putin is a reactionary politician who is not trying to create a new order "but to recreate a modified version of the Soviet Union".
fascism: Neo-Nazi groups have moved towards more decentralized organization and online social networks with a terroristic focus.
fascism: Not long after signing the agreement, by Mussolini's own confession, the Church had threatened to have him "excommunicated", in part because of his intractable nature, but also because he had "confiscated more issues of Catholic newspapers in the next three months than in the previous seven years".
fascism: They believed that humans are naturally predatory, and that nations are in a constant struggle in which only the strongest would survive.
fascism: According to Alexander J.
fascism: Italian national syndicalists held a common set of principles: the rejection of bourgeois values, democracy, liberalism, Marxism, internationalism, and pacifism, and the promotion of heroism, vitalism, and violence.
fascism: Richard Washburn Child, the American ambassador to Italy who worked with Mussolini and became his friend and admirer, defended Mussolini's opportunistic behaviour by writing: Opportunist is a term of reproach used to brand men who fit themselves to conditions for the reasons of self-interest.
fascism: This would be done through the state's mediating relations between the classes (contrary to the views of classical liberal–inspired capitalists).
fascism: The "fascist right" included members of the paramilitary Blackshirts and former members of the Italian Nationalist Association (ANI).
fascism: From 1935 to 1939, Germany and Italy escalated their demands for territorial claims and greater influence in world affairs.
fascism: Nazi Germany faced multiple losses and steady Soviet and Western Allied offensives from 1943 to 1945.
fascism: Oxford historian Roger Griffin compared Putin's Russia to the World War II-era Empire of Japan, saying that like Putin's Russia, it "emulated fascism in many ways, but was not fascist".
fascism: On 28 April 1945, Mussolini was captured and executed by Italian communist partisans.
fascism: Italy invaded Ethiopia in 1935 resulting in its condemnation by the League of Nations and its widespread diplomatic isolation.
fascism: Historians and other scholars disagree on the question of whether a specifically fascist type of economic policy can be said to exist.
fascism: Walter Laqueur sees the core tenets of fascism as "self-evident: nationalism; social Darwinism; racialism, the need for leadership, a new aristocracy, and obedience; and the negation of the ideals of the Enlightenment and the French Revolution".
fascism: In the 21st century, this greatly increased in prominence as a response to the resurgence of the radical right, especially after the 2016 election of Donald Trump.
fascism: The fin-de-siècle generation supported emotionalism, irrationalism, subjectivism, and vitalism.
fascism: Nikolaos Michaloliakos and six other prominent members and former members of parliament (MPs) were found guilty of running a criminal organization.
fascism: The anti-fascist and socialist George Orwell suggested in 1944 that the term had been used to denigrate diverse positions "in internal politics".
fascism: One of the schools of fascism studies understands fascism as a movement based on the myth of national rebirth, called palingenesis.
fascism: The first fascist movements emerged in Italy during World War I before spreading to other European countries, most notably Germany.
fascism: Fascism views violent action as a necessity in politics that fascism identifies as being an "endless struggle"; this emphasis on the use of political violence means that most fascist parties have also created their own party militias (e.g.
fascism: Fascism, in its many forms, did not hesitate to kill its own citizens as well as its colonial subjects in its search for ideological and political closure.
fascism: A number of post-World War II fascist movements described themselves as a "third position", outside the traditional political spectrum.
fascism: In practice, the sectoral corporations exercised little independence and were largely controlled by the regime, and the employee organizations were rarely led by employees themselves, but instead by appointed Fascist party members.
fascism: Fascist Italy regarded the promotion of male sexual excitation before puberty as the cause of criminality amongst male youth, declared homosexuality a social disease and pursued an aggressive campaign to reduce prostitution of young women.
fascism: To appeal to Italian conservatives, fascism adopted policies such as promoting family values, including policies designed to reduce the number of women in the workforce—limiting the woman's role to that of a mother.
fascism: Major examples of ideological dishonesty have been identified in Italian fascism's changing relationship with German Nazism.
fascism: David Baker argues that there is an identifiable economic system in fascism that is distinct from those advocated by other ideologies, comprising essential characteristics that fascist nations shared.
fascism: While the theories of "new consensus" authors have proven to be very influential, they have also failed to establish a historiographic consensus.
fascism: These ideas have motivated fascist regimes to commit massacres, forced sterilizations, deportations, and genocides.
fascism: During World War II, the genocidal and imperialist ambitions of the fascist Axis powers resulted in the murder of millions of people.
fascism: Fascism aestheticized modern technology and its association with speed, power, and violence.
fascism: The fascists came to associate the term with the ancient Roman fasces or fascio littorio, a bundle of rods tied around an axe, an ancient Roman symbol of the authority of the civic magistrate, carried by his lictors.
fascism: In Italy, such modernist influence was exemplified by Marinetti, who advocated a palingenetic modernist society that condemned liberal-bourgeois values of tradition and psychology while promoting a technological-martial religion of national renewal that emphasized militant nationalism.
fascism: Mussolini’s transformation away from Marxism into what eventually became fascism began prior to World War I, as Mussolini had grown increasingly pessimistic about Marxism and egalitarianism while becoming increasingly supportive of figures who opposed egalitarianism, such as Friedrich Nietzsche.
fascism: It expanded the powers of the executive—party and state—in a bid for total control.
fascism: It challenged positivism's claim of deliberate and rational choice as the determining behaviour of humans, with social Darwinism focusing on heredity, race, and environment.
fascism: Hungarian fascist Gyula Gömbös rose to power as Prime Minister of Hungary in 1932, he created an eight-hour work day and a forty-eight-hour work week in industry; sought to entrench a corporatist economy; and pursued irredentist claims on Hungary's neighbors.
fascism: The fascist Iron Guard movement in Romania soared in political support after 1933, gaining representation in the Romanian government, and an Iron Guard member assassinated Romanian prime minister Ion Duca.
fascism: Andreas Umland argues that there are similarities between fascism and Bolshevism, including that they believed in the necessity of a vanguard leadership, showed contempt for bourgeois values, and had totalitarian ambitions.
fascism: Nietzsche's concept of the Übermensch and his advocacy of the will to power as a primordial instinct, were major influences upon many of the fin-de-siècle generation.
fascism: The fascists and the Italian political right held common ground: both held Marxism in contempt, discounted class consciousness and believed in the rule of elites.
fascism: Fascists identified their primary opponents as the majority of socialists on the left who had opposed intervention in World War I.
fascism: In 1935, Nazi Germany expanded the legality of abortion by amending its eugenics law to promote abortion for women with hereditary disorders.
fascism: fascism has become a universal phenomenon ...
fascism: They condemned the rationalistic, liberal individualism of society and the dissolution of social links in bourgeois society.
fascism: After Fascism's accommodation of the political right, the fascist movement's membership soared to approximately 250,000 by 1921.
fascism: Because productivism was key to creating a strong nationalist state, it criticized internationalist and Marxist socialism, advocating instead to represent a type of nationalist productivist socialism.
fascism: Their eugenics program also stemmed from the "progressive biomedical model" of Weimar Germany.
fascism: Beyond this, European fascists have not held a unified set of racial views.
fascism: Motyl, an American historian and political scientist, Russian fascism has the following characteristics:
fascism: It opposes liberal democracy, rejects multi-party systems, and typically supports a one-party state so that it may synthesize with the nation.
fascism: These hopes faded when Czechoslovakia was dissolved by the proclamation of the German client state of Slovakia, followed by the next day of the occupation of the remaining Czech Lands and the proclamation of the German Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia.
fascism: In 1938, Germany annexed Austria and Italy assisted Germany in resolving the diplomatic crisis between Germany versus Britain and France over claims on Czechoslovakia by arranging the Munich Agreement that gave Germany the Sudetenland and was perceived at the time to have averted a European war.
fascism: Fascism emphasizes both palingenesis (national rebirth or re-creation) and modernism.
fascism: They were in principle opposed to the idea of social welfare, arguing that it "encouraged the preservation of the degenerate and the feeble".
fascism: Its emphasis on biogroup identity and the role of organic relations within societies fostered the legitimacy and appeal of nationalism.
fascism: The accommodation of the political right into the Italian Fascist movement in the early 1920s created internal factions within the movement.
fascism: Francisco Franco's Falangist one-party state in Spain was officially neutral during World War II, although Franco's rise to power had been directly assisted by the militaries of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany during the Spanish Civil War.
fascism: Fascist economic ideology supported the profit motive but emphasized that industries must uphold the national interest as superior to private profit.
fascism: The liberals and the leftist minority in parliament walked out in protest in what became known as the Aventine Secession.
fascism: Prior to 1914, the fasces symbol was widely employed by various political movements, often of a left-wing, liberal, or republican persuasion.
fascism: According to Plenge, the "ideas of 1789"—such as the rights of man, democracy, individualism and liberalism—were being rejected in favor of "the ideas of 1914" that included "German values" of duty, discipline, law and order.
fascism: In the case of Nazism, this involved racial purity and a belief in a master race.
fascism: Griffin's 'minimal' criterion of national rebirth also received criticism as too broad, applicable to non-fascist movements, or arbitrary, not applicable to certain regimes which may be considered fascist, and also as a rework of the 'totalitarian' model of understanding fascism.
fascism: Fascism identifies the physical age period of youth as a critical time for the moral development of people who will affect society.
fascism: This was the name given to political organizations in Italy known as fasci, groups similar to guilds or syndicates.
fascism: Fascism seeks to solve economic, political, and social problems by achieving a millenarian national rebirth, exalting the nation or race above all else and promoting cults of unity, strength, and purity.
fascism: While fascism was opposed to domestic class conflict, it held that bourgeois–proletarian conflict existed primarily in international conflict between proletarian nations and bourgeois nations.
fascism: A military citizenship arose, in which all citizens were involved with the military in some manner.
fascism: The advent of total war and the mass mobilization of society erased the distinction between civilians and combatants.
fascism: Griffin explored this 'mythic' or 'eliminable' core of fascism with his concept of post-fascism to explore the continuation of Nazism in the modern era.
fascism: Beginning in European countries in the 1920s, it was at its most significant shortly before and during World War II.
fascism: They state that the decisions taken by fascist leaders cannot be explained within a logical economic framework.
fascism: The victory of the Allies over the Axis powers in World War II led to the collapse of many fascist regimes in Europe.
fascism: While initially composed of distinctive movements, in the 21st century, many U.S.
fascism: Failed yesterday and succeed to-morrow.
fascism: In particular, fascism's nationalism has been identified as having a palingenetic character.
