feminism: Ettinger invented a field of notions and concepts that serve the research of cinema from feminine perspective: The Matrixial Gaze.
feminism: Other anti-feminists oppose women's entry into the workforce, political office, and the voting process, as well as the lessening of male authority in families.
feminism: as well as the first feminist film journal, Women & Film.
feminism: For example, "libertarian feminism does not require social measures to reduce material inequality; in fact, it opposes such measures ...
feminism: Approaches in philosophy and psychoanalysis fuelled feminist film criticism, feminist independent film and feminist distribution.
feminism: Feminists continued to campaign for the reform of family laws which gave husbands control over their wives.
feminism: Feminism had complex interactions with the major political movements of the 20th century.
feminism: She was re-elected to the 2nd Dáil in the elections of 1921.
feminism: There has also been a close link between feminist literature and activism, with feminist writing typically voicing key concerns or ideas of feminism in a particular era.
feminism: In 1970, Australian writer Germaine Greer published The Female Eunuch, which became a worldwide bestseller, reportedly driving up divorce rates.
feminism: Third-wave feminism also sought to challenge or avoid what it deemed the second wave's essentialist definitions of femininity, which, third-wave feminists argued, overemphasized the experiences of upper middle-class white women.
feminism: According to a 2015 poll, 18 percent of Americans use the label of "feminist" to describe themselves, while 85 percent are feminists in practice as they reported they believe in "equality for women".
feminism: Many writers in the fields of film theory and contemporary art are using the Ettingerian matrixial sphere (matricial sphere).
feminism: Themes explored in feminist theory include discrimination, stereotyping, objectification (especially sexual objectification), oppression, and patriarchy.
feminism: Feminists have taken a variety of positions on different aspects of the sexual revolution from the 1960s and 70s.
feminism: In Liechtenstein, women were given the right to vote by the women's suffrage referendum of 1984.
feminism: The division of labor within households was affected by the increased entry of women into workplaces in the 20th century.
feminism: Most forms of feminism characterize patriarchy as an unjust social system that is oppressive to women.
feminism: Notable texts of this kind are Ursula K.
feminism: The word "féministe" ("feminist"), inspired by its medical use, was coined by Alexandre Dumas fils in a 1872 essay, referring to men who supported women rights.
feminism: Corresponding with general developments within feminism, and often including such self-organizing tactics as the consciousness-raising group, the movement began in the 1960s and flourished throughout the 1970s.
feminism: Feminist legal scholars claim that this fails to acknowledge women's values or legal interests or the harms that they may anticipate or experience.
feminism: Do not vote for them unless they work for us.
feminism: Proponents of gender-neutral language argue that the use of gender-specific language often implies male superiority or reflects an unequal state of society.
feminism: Since the 1960s, both of these traditions are also contrasted with the radical feminism that arose from the radical wing of second-wave feminism and that calls for a radical reordering of society to eliminate patriarchy.
feminism: Some feminist campaigning also helped reform attitudes to child sexual abuse.
feminism: Much of the early period of feminist literary scholarship was given over to the rediscovery and reclamation of texts written by women.
feminism: Hrotsvitha's six short dramas are considered to be her magnum opus.
feminism: Christian feminism is a branch of feminist theology which seeks to interpret and understand Christianity in light of the equality of women and men, and that this interpretation is necessary for a complete understanding of Christianity.
feminism: Every woman has the right—the need!—to define degradation for herself."
According to this view, part of sexual autonomy is the right to define one's boundaries, desires and limits around their sexuality rather than accept a narrative in which all women are victims of men during a sex act.
feminism: These criticisms have led to the creation of ethnically specific or multicultural forms of feminism, such as black feminism and intersectional feminism.
feminism: For instance, in France, married women did not receive the right to work without their husband's permission until 1965.
feminism: Critics of feminism sometimes ask "Why feminism and not humanism?".
feminism: In heterosexual dating feminists have recognized gendered dating norms as unjust and feminist women have shifted towards initiating and taking the first steps during dating.
feminism: These businesses flourished as part of the second and third waves of feminism in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s.
feminism: Changes in female dress standards and acceptable physical activities for women have also been part of feminist movements.
feminism: Fourth-wave feminism is "defined by technology", according to Kira Cochrane, and is characterized particularly by the use of Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Tumblr, and blogs such as Feministing to challenge misogyny and further gender equality.
feminism: Mary Wollstonecraft is seen by many as a founder of feminism due to her 1792 book titled A Vindication of the Rights of Woman in which she argues that class and private property are the basis of discrimination against women, and that women as much as men needed equal rights.
feminism: From the 1960s on, the campaign for women's rights was met with mixed results in the U.S.
feminism: The term postfeminism is used to describe a range of viewpoints reacting to feminism since the 1980s.
feminism: According to Nawar al-Hassan Golley, Arab feminism was closely connected with Arab nationalism.
feminism: Third-wave feminists tend to view the struggle for trans rights as an integral part of intersectional feminism.
feminism: This demand was particularly championed by special Fascist women's auxiliary groups such as the fasci femminilli and only partly realized in 1925, under pressure from dictator Benito Mussolini's more conservative coalition partners.
feminism: Proponents of neoliberalism have theorized that by increasing women's participation in the workforce, there will be heightened economic progress, but feminist critics have stated that this participation alone does not further equality in gender relations.
feminism: Advocates seek to highlight the deeply rooted teachings of equality in the Quran and encourage a questioning of the patriarchal interpretation of Islamic teaching through the Quran, hadith (sayings of Muhammad), and sharia (law) towards the creation of a more equal and just society.
feminism: Second-wave feminists see women's cultural and political inequalities as inextricably linked and encourage women to understand aspects of their personal lives as deeply politicized and as reflecting sexist power structures.
feminism: Daphne Patai and Noretta Koertge argue that the term "anti-feminist" is used to silence academic debate about feminism.
feminism: It considers the male-controlled capitalist hierarchy as the defining feature of women's oppression and the total uprooting and reconstruction of society as necessary.
feminism: However, women of other races have proposed alternative feminisms.
feminism: Similarly, feminists' views on prostitution vary, ranging from critical to supportive.
feminism: Since then female directors such as Sally Potter, Catherine Breillat, Claire Denis and Jane Campion have made art movies, and directors like Kathryn Bigelow and Patty Jenkins have had mainstream success.
feminism: Feminism holds the position that modern societies are patriarchal—they prioritize the male point of view—and that women are treated unjustly in these societies.
feminism: Feminist theory is the extension of feminism into theoretical or philosophical fields.
feminism: Ettinger's language include original concepts to discover feminine perspectives.
feminism: Clara Zetkin of the SPD called for women's suffrage to build a "socialist order, the only one that allows for a radical solution to the women's question".
feminism: Most genres and subgenres have undergone a similar analysis, so literary studies have entered new territories such as the "female gothic" or women's science fiction.
feminism: I am the Third Wave.
feminism: Feminists who are critical of the sex industry generally see it as the exploitative result of patriarchal social structures which reinforce sexual and cultural attitudes complicit in rape and sexual harassment.
feminism: Amelia Jones has written that the postfeminist texts which emerged in the 1980s and 1990s portrayed second-wave feminism as a monolithic entity.
feminism: The "feminization of employment" refers to a conceptual characterization of deteriorated and devalorized labor conditions that are less desirable, meaningful, safe, and secure.
feminism: Post-structural feminism draws on the philosophies of post-structuralism and deconstruction in order to argue that the concept of gender is created socially and culturally through discourse.
feminism: Postcolonial feminists argue that colonial oppression and Western feminism marginalized postcolonial women but did not turn them passive or voiceless.
feminism: Other feminists criticize separatist feminism as sexist.
feminism: Encyclopedia Americana.
feminism: The consensus today in feminist and masculinity theories is that men and women should cooperate to achieve the larger goals of feminism.
feminism: Feminists have also worked to abolish the "marital exemption" in rape laws which precluded the prosecution of husbands for the rape of their wives.
feminism: Former Norwegian supreme court justice and former president of the liberal Norwegian Association for Women's Rights, Karin Maria Bruzelius, has described liberal feminism as "a realistic, sober, practical feminism".
feminism: Some anti-feminists argue, for example, that social acceptance of divorce and non-married women is wrong and harmful, and that men and women are fundamentally different and thus their different traditional roles in society should be maintained.
feminism: First-wave feminism was a period of activity during the 19th and early-20th centuries.
feminism: The Oxford English Dictionary dates the first appearance in English in this meaning back to 1895.
feminism: One criticism of feminist epistemology is that it allows social and political values to influence its findings.
feminism: In the UK and US, it focused on the promotion of equal contract, marriage, parenting, and property rights for women.
feminism: While providing a critique of these social and political relations, much of feminist theory also focuses on the promotion of women's rights and interests.
feminism: However, some activists proposed a new feminist movement, Islamic feminism, which argues for women's equality within an Islamic framework.
feminism: Some iconic writing includes Cheryl Buckley's essays on design and patriarchy and Joan Rothschild's Design and Feminism: Re-Visioning Spaces, Places, and Everyday Things.
feminism: Feminist artist Judy Chicago, who created The Dinner Party, a set of vulva-themed ceramic plates in the 1970s, said in 2009 to ARTnews, "There is still an institutional lag and an insistence on a male Eurocentric narrative.
feminism: Feminism is often divided into three main traditions called liberal, radical, and socialist/Marxist feminism, sometimes known as the "Big Three" schools of feminist thought.
feminism: This was paralleled in the 1970s by French feminists, who developed the concept of écriture féminine (which translates as "female or feminine writing").
feminism: Postmodern feminists also emphasize the social construction of gender and the discursive nature of reality; however, as Pamela Abbott et al.
feminism: Second-wave feminism is largely concerned with issues of equality beyond suffrage, such as ending gender discrimination.
feminism: A Room of One's Own (1929) by Virginia Woolf, is noted in its argument for both a literal and figural space for women writers within a literary tradition dominated by patriarchy.
feminism: In the 19th century, anti-feminism was mainly focused on opposition to women's suffrage.
feminism: Since the late 19th century, some feminists have allied with socialism, whereas others have criticized socialist ideology for being insufficiently concerned about women's rights.
feminism: Emmeline Pankhurst was the most notable activist in England.
feminism: Other feminists have criticized these views as being anti-men.
feminism: It addresses questions about the history of legal and social biases against women and about the enhancement of their legal rights.
feminism: reject major components of liberalism" in a modern or party-political sense; she highlights "equality of opportunity" as a defining feature of liberal feminism.
feminism: Feminist cinema, advocating or illustrating feminist perspectives, arose largely with the development of feminist film theory in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
feminism: During the Spanish Civil War, Dolores Ibárruri (La Pasionaria) led the Communist Party of Spain.
feminism: In both cases, the use of the word was very negative and reflected a criticism of a so-called "confusion of the sexes" by women who refused to abide by the sexual division of society and challenged the inequalities between sexes.
feminism: In Britain, the women's movement was allied with the Labour party.
feminism: It implies the institutions of male rule and privilege and is dependent on female subordination.
feminism: As a historian, Hrotsvitha is one of the few writers to address women's lives from a woman's perspective during the Middle Ages.
feminism: Virago Press began to publish its large list of 19th- and early-20th-century novels in 1975 and became one of the first commercial presses to join in the project of reclamation.
feminism: Third-world feminism and indigenous feminism are closely related to postcolonial feminism.
feminism: In Latin America, revolutions brought changes in women's status in countries such as Nicaragua, where feminist ideology during the Sandinista Revolution aided women's quality of life but fell short of achieving a social and ideological change.
feminism: Let this dismissal of a woman's experience move you to anger.
feminism: Charles Fourier, a utopian socialist and French philosopher, is credited with having coined the word "féminisme" in 1837, but no trace of the word have been found in his works.
feminism: "Feminism" .
feminism: Second-wave feminism is a feminist movement beginning in the early 1960s and continuing to the present; as such, it coexists with third-wave feminism.
feminism: Anarcha-feminists believe that class struggle and anarchy against the state require struggling against patriarchy, which comes from involuntary hierarchy.
feminism: For example, Maya Angelou's I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings was extremely influential, as it represented the specific racism and sexism experienced by black women growing up in the United States.
feminism: While the music industry has long been open to having women in performance or entertainment roles, women are much less likely to have positions of authority, such as being the leader of an orchestra.
feminism: The last phase she calls "gender theory", in which the "ideological inscription and the literary effects of the sex/gender system are explored".
feminism: I am not a post-feminism feminist.
feminism: Since the late 20th century, newer forms of feminisms have also emerged.
feminism: However, some argue that while male engagement with feminism is necessary, it is problematic because of the ingrained social influences of patriarchy in gender relations.
feminism: So I write this as a plea to all women, especially women of my generation: Let Thomas' confirmation serve to remind you, as it did me, that the fight is far from over.
feminism: Rosemary Hennessy and Chrys Ingraham say that materialist forms of feminism grew out of Western Marxist thought and have inspired a number of different (but overlapping) movements, all of which are involved in a critique of capitalism and are focused on ideology's relationship to women.
feminism: With the turn of the 19th century, activism focused primarily on gaining political power, particularly the right of women's suffrage, though some feminists were active in campaigning for women's sexual, reproductive, and economic rights too.
feminism: The word "féminisme" ("feminism") first appeared in France in 1871 in a medicine thesis about men suffering from tuberculosis and having developed, according to the author Ferdinand-Valère Faneau de la Cour, feminine traits.
feminism: Cyprian Blamires states that although feminists were among those who opposed the rise of Adolf Hitler, feminism has a complicated relationship with the Nazi movement as well.
feminism: Feminism is a range of socio-political movements and ideologies that aim to define and establish the political, economic, personal, and social equality of the sexes.
feminism: Many Jewish women have become leaders of feminist movements throughout their history.
feminism: This work has explored topics like beauty, DIY, feminine approaches to design and community-based projects.
feminism: Some modern forms of feminism that historically grew out of the broader liberal tradition have more recently also been described as conservative in relative terms.
feminism: The second Showalter calls "gynocriticism", in which the "woman is producer of textual meaning".
feminism: Feminist leaders rooted in the second wave, such as Gloria Anzaldúa, bell hooks, Chela Sandoval, Cherríe Moraga, Audre Lorde, Maxine Hong Kingston, and many other non-white feminists, sought to negotiate a space within feminist thought for consideration of race-related subjectivities.
feminism: Taken together, these studies reflect the importance differentiating between claiming a "feminist identity" and holding "feminist attitudes or beliefs".
feminism: The Buddhist feminist Rita Gross describes Buddhist feminism as "the radical practice of the co-humanity of women and men".
feminism: According to feminist scholar Prudence Chamberlain, the focus of the fourth wave is justice for women and opposition to sexual harassment and violence against women.
feminism: Employers in the global south have perceptions about feminine labor and seek workers who are perceived to be undemanding, docile and willing to accept low wages.
feminism: In Switzerland, women gained the right to vote in federal elections in 1971; but in the canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden women obtained the right to vote on local issues only in 1991, when the canton was forced to do so by the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland.
feminism: Anthony, who each campaigned for the abolition of slavery before championing women's right to vote.
feminism: Feminist theory has explored the social construction of masculinity and its implications for the goal of gender equality.
feminism: Women's music (or womyn's music or wimmin's music) is the music by women, for women, and about women.
feminism: Womanism emerged after early feminist movements were largely white and middle-class.
feminism: In this system, fathers have authority over women, children, and property.
feminism: During the 19th and early 20th centuries liberal feminism focused especially on women's suffrage and access to education.
feminism: Personally, I find detergent commercials in which women become orgasmic over soapsuds to be tremendously degrading to women.
feminism: These women were influenced by the Quaker theology of spiritual equality, which asserts that men and women are equal under God.
feminism: Grenier's proposition was adopted 51 to 16.
feminism: Within ten years, women made up over half the First World workforce.
feminism: In 1968, radical feminist Anne Koedt argued in her essay The Myth of the Vaginal Orgasm that women's biology and the clitoral orgasm had not been properly analyzed and popularized, because men "have orgasms essentially by friction with the vagina" and not the clitoral area.
feminism: Similarly, some women argued that the civil rights movement had sexist and homophobic elements and did not adequately address minority women's concerns.
feminism: Examples of fourth-wave feminist campaigns include the Everyday Sexism Project, No More Page 3, Stop Bild Sexism, Mattress Performance, 10 Hours of Walking in NYC as a Woman, #YesAllWomen, Free the Nipple, One Billion Rising, the 2017 Women's March, the 2018 Women's March, and the #MeToo movement.
feminism: Alternately, feminists who support at least part of the sex industry argue that it can be a medium of feminist expression and reflect a woman's right to control and define her own sexuality.
feminism: Since that time, women in developing nations and former colonies and who are of color or various ethnicities or living in poverty have proposed additional feminisms.
feminism: The feminist movement produced feminist fiction, feminist non-fiction, and feminist poetry, which created new interest in women's writing.
feminism: More recently, Broadview Press continues to issue 18th- and 19th-century novels, many hitherto out of print, and the University of Kentucky has a series of republications of early women's novels.
feminism: Feminist views on sexuality vary, and have differed by historical period and by cultural context.
feminism: This debate has culminated in the late 1970s and the 1980s, in what came to be known as the feminist sex wars, which pitted anti-pornography feminism against sex-positive feminism, and parts of the feminist movement were deeply divided by these debates.
feminism: centred on the court decision in Roe v.
feminism: Lipstick feminism is a cultural feminist movement that attempts to respond to the backlash of second-wave radical feminism of the 1960s and 1970s by reclaiming symbols of "feminine" identity such as make-up, suggestive clothing and having a sexual allure as valid and empowering personal choices.
feminism: It also prompted a general reevaluation of women's historical and academic contributions in response to the belief that women's lives and contributions have been underrepresented as areas of scholarly interest.
feminism: While not being "anti-feminist", postfeminists believe that women have achieved second wave goals while being critical of third- and fourth-wave feminist goals.
feminism: Secular or atheist feminists have engaged in feminist criticism of religion, arguing that many religions have oppressive rules towards women and misogynistic themes and elements in religious texts.
feminism: Some feminists are engaged with men's issues activism, such as bringing attention to male rape and spousal battery and addressing negative social expectations for men.
feminism: In popular music, while there are many women singers recording songs, there are very few women behind the audio console acting as music producers, the individuals who direct and manage the recording process.
feminism: In 1899, Qasim Amin, considered the "father" of Arab feminism, wrote The Liberation of Women, which argued for legal and social reforms for women.
feminism: Socialist feminism distinguishes itself from Marxist feminism by arguing that women's liberation can only be achieved by working to end both the economic and cultural sources of women's oppression.
feminism: The term is most often used in reference to men who are actively supportive of feminism.
feminism: Second- and third-wave feminism in China has been characterized by a reexamination of women's roles during the communist revolution and other reform movements, and new discussions about whether women's equality has actually been fully achieved.
feminism: The genre emerged as a musical expression of the second-wave feminist movement as well as the labour, civil rights, and peace movements.
feminism: The book expressed feminists' sense of injustice.
feminism: Moreover, historical pieces of writing by women have been used by feminists to speak about what women's lives were like in the past while demonstrating the power that they held and the impact they had in their communities.
feminism: Women's experiences in non-industrialized countries reveal often deleterious effects of modernization policies and undercut orthodox claims that development benefits everyone.
feminism: Additionally, some have argued for the existence of a fourth wave, starting around 2012, which has used social media to combat sexual harassment, violence against women and rape culture; it is best known for the Me Too movement.
feminism: Anti-feminism is opposition to feminism in some or all of its forms.
feminism: Among American university students, for both men and women, support for feminist ideas is more common than self-identification as a feminist.
feminism: She has been called "the most remarkable woman of her time" and an important figure in the history of women.
feminism: Feminist theorists have developed theories in a variety of disciplines in order to respond to issues concerning gender.
feminism: In the field of literary criticism, Elaine Showalter describes the development of feminist theory as having three phases.
feminism: While Nazis glorified traditional notions of patriarchal society and its role for women, they claimed to recognize women's equality in employment.
feminism: Through the 1980s and 1990s, this trend continued as musicologists like Susan McClary, Marcia Citron, and Ruth Solie began to consider the cultural reasons for the marginalizing of women from the received body of work.
feminism: Separatist feminism does not support heterosexual relationships.
feminism: Feminist theory typically characterizes patriarchy as a social construction, which can be overcome by revealing and critically analyzing its manifestations.
feminism: Patriarchal cultures are criticized for "limiting forms of masculinity" available to men and thus narrowing their life choices.
feminism: Radical feminists argue that sexual violence committed by men is often rooted in ideologies of male sexual entitlement and that these systems grant women very few legitimate options to refuse sexual advances.
feminism: Wade enunciating a woman's right to choose whether to carry a pregnancy to term.
feminism: magazine, "Becoming the Third Wave" (1992).
feminism: Depending on the historical moment, culture and country, feminists around the world have had different causes and goals.
feminism: Le Guin's The Left Hand of Darkness (1969), Joanna Russ' The Female Man (1970), Octavia Butler's Kindred (1979) and Margaret Atwood's Handmaid's Tale (1985).
feminism: Some radical feminists have argued that women should not engage in heterosexual sex, and choose lesbianism as a lifestyle and political choice, a view that has fallen out of favor, as sexuality is seen as largely biologically influenced rather than a choice one can make for political reasons.
feminism: This entitlement can take different forms, depending on the culture.
feminism: Efforts to change this include fighting against gender stereotypes and improving educational, professional, and interpersonal opportunities and outcomes for women.
feminism: Many overlapping feminist movements and ideologies have developed over the years.
feminism: Feminist views of pornography range from condemnation of pornography as a form of violence against women, to an embracing of some forms of pornography as a medium of feminist expression and a legitimate career.
feminism: The poll found that 52 percent did not identify as feminist, 26 percent were unsure, and 4 percent provided no response.
feminism: Dorothy Chunn describes a "blaming narrative" under the postfeminist moniker, where feminists are undermined for continuing to make demands for gender equality in a "post-feminist" society, where "gender equality has (already) been achieved".
feminism: During much of its history, feminist movements and theoretical developments were led predominantly by middle-class white women from Western Europe and North America.
feminism: New legislation included the Custody of Infants Act 1839 in the UK, which introduced the tender years doctrine for child custody and gave women the right of custody of their children for the first time.
feminism: Wars (both World War I and World War II) had seen the provisional emancipation of some women, but post-war periods signalled the return to conservative roles.
feminism: During Sadat's presidency, his wife, Jehan Sadat, publicly advocated further women's rights, though Egyptian policy and society began to move away from women's equality with the new Islamist movement and growing conservatism.
feminism: The social construct of masculinity is seen by feminism as problematic because it associates males with aggression and competition, and reinforces patriarchal and unequal gender relations.
feminism: For example, a humanist may consider abortion in terms of a utilitarian ethical framework, rather than considering the motivation of any particular woman in getting an abortion.
feminism: Social constructs about feminized labor have played a big part in this, for instance, employers often perpetuate ideas about women as "secondary" income earners to justify their lower rates of pay and not deserving of training or promotion.
feminism: Although she supported equal rights for women, she opposed women fighting on the front and clashed with the anarcha-feminist Mujeres Libres.
feminism: For feminists, a woman's right to control her own sexuality is a key issue and one that is heavily contested between different branches of feminism.
feminism: It came into force in those nations ratifying it.
feminism: 935–973), a canoness who was an early female poet in the German lands.
feminism: The activities of pro-feminist men's groups include anti-violence work with boys and young men in schools, offering sexual harassment workshops in workplaces, running community education campaigns, and counselling male perpetrators of violence.
feminism: She also contributed to International Women's Day (IWD).
feminism: Fourth-wave feminists also tend to be trans-inclusive.
feminism: Some humanists argue, however, that the goals of feminists and humanists largely overlap, and the distinction is only in motivation.
feminism: Victoria passed legislation in 1884 and New South Wales in 1889; the remaining Australian colonies passed similar legislation between 1890 and 1897.
feminism: During the baby boom period, feminism waned in importance.
feminism: The view that young girls cause men to have sexual intercourse with them was replaced by that of men's responsibility for their own conduct, the men being adults.
feminism: Over the course of the 1970s, a large number of influential women accepted lesbian and bisexual women as part of feminism.
feminism: Commensurate with this growth in scholarly interest, various presses began the task of reissuing long-out-of-print texts.
feminism: Feminist theory, which emerged from feminist movements, aims to understand the nature of gender inequality by examining women's social roles and lived experiences.
feminism: August Bebel, an early activist of the German Social Democratic Party (SPD), published his work Die Frau und der Sozialismus, juxtaposing the struggle for equal rights between sexes with social equality in general.
feminism: Radical Women is the oldest socialist feminist organization in the U.S.
feminism: Pro-feminist men also may be involved in men's health, activism against pornography including anti-pornography legislation, men's studies, and the development of gender equity curricula in schools.
feminism: The widespread interest in women's writing is related to a general reassessment and expansion of the literary canon.
feminism: Blamires also writes that neofascism has since the 1960s been hostile towards feminism and advocates that women accept "their traditional roles".
feminism: Patriarchy is a social system in which society is organized around male authority figures.
feminism: The term third wave is credited to Rebecca Walker, who responded to Thomas's appointment to the Supreme Court with an article in Ms.
feminism: French philosopher Simone de Beauvoir provided a Marxist solution and an existentialist view on many of the questions of feminism with the publication of The Second Sex in 1949.
feminism: The book is widely credited with sparking the beginning of second-wave feminism in the United States.
feminism: Liberal feminism seeks equality of men and women through political and legal reform within a liberal democratic framework, without radically altering the structure of society; liberal feminism "works within the structure of mainstream society to integrate women into that structure".
feminism: Opinions on the sex industry are diverse.
feminism: Riot grrrl's emphasis on universal female identity and separatism often appears more closely allied with second-wave feminism than with the third wave.
feminism: According to Elyce Rae Helford, "Science fiction and fantasy serve as important vehicles for feminist thought, particularly as bridges between theory and practice." Feminist science fiction is sometimes taught at the university level to explore the role of social constructs in understanding gender.
feminism: Projects such as Psychology's Feminist Voices have emerged to catalogue the influence of feminist psychologists on the discipline.
feminism: However, Hitler and Mussolini declared themselves as opposed to feminism, and after the rise of Nazism in Germany in 1933, there was a rapid dissolution of the political rights and economic opportunities that feminists had fought for during the pre-war period and to some extent during the 1920s.
feminism: Other branches of feminism such as individualist feminism consider themselves sex-positive, and see women's expression of their own sexuality as a right.
feminism: In 1907 there was an International Conference of Socialist Women in Stuttgart where suffrage was described as a tool of class struggle.
feminism: However, during the Iranian revolution of 1979, many of the rights that women had gained from the women's movement were systematically abolished, such as the Family Protection Law.
feminism: In Britain, the suffragettes and suffragists campaigned for the women's vote, as well as served the government and increase military enlistment by participating in the White Feather Campaign.
feminism: The Iranian Constitutional Revolution in 1905 triggered the Iranian women's movement, which aimed to achieve women's equality in education, marriage, careers, and legal rights.
feminism: This trend accelerated in the 1960s with the civil rights movement in the United States and the end of Western European colonialism in Africa, the Caribbean, parts of Latin America, and Southeast Asia.
feminism: Islamic feminists advocate women's rights, gender equality, and social justice grounded within an Islamic framework.
feminism: In Germany, feminists like Clara Zetkin were very interested in women's politics, including the fight for equal opportunities and women's suffrage, through socialism.
feminism: The first comprised women's suffrage movements of the 19th and early-20th centuries, promoting women's right to vote.
feminism: Amongst other demands concerning social reform presented in the Fascist manifesto in 1919 was expanding the suffrage to all Italian citizens of age 18 and above, including women (accomplished only in 1946, after the defeat of fascism) and eligibility for all to stand for office from age 25.
feminism: Hélène Cixous argues that writing and philosophy are phallocentric and along with other French feminists such as Luce Irigaray emphasize "writing from the body" as a subversive exercise.
feminism: I find movies in which prostitutes are treated like ignorant drug addicts to be slander against women.
feminism: Ecofeminism has been criticized for focusing too much on a mystical connection between women and nature.
feminism: Susan Haack also points out that feminist epistemology reinforces traditional stereotypes about women's thinking (as intuitive and emotional, etc.); Meera Nanda further cautions that this may in fact trap women within "traditional gender roles and help justify patriarchy".
feminism: These ideas also correspond with ideas in African feminism, motherism, Stiwanism, negofeminism, femalism, transnational feminism, and Africana womanism.
feminism: Another part of the feminist research agenda is the uncovering of ways in which power inequities are created or reinforced in society and in scientific and academic institutions.
feminism: In the 1980s, Pandora Press, responsible for publishing Spender's study, issued a companion line of 18th-century novels written by women.
feminism: This progress stagnated in the 1990s, and men outnumber women five to one in behind the camera roles.
feminism: He drew links between women's position in Egyptian society and nationalism, leading to the development of Cairo University and the National Movement.
feminism: Buddhist feminism is a movement that seeks to improve the religious, legal, and social status of women within Buddhism.
feminism: Scandals involving the harassment, abuse, and murder of women and girls have galvanized the movement.
feminism: A person who advocates for feminism is known as a feminist.
feminism: The Consultative Assembly of Algiers of 1944 proposed on 24 March 1944 to grant eligibility to women but following an amendment by Fernard Grenier, they were given full citizenship, including the right to vote.
feminism: She helped to develop the social-democratic women's movement in Germany.
feminism: The work of Julia Kristeva, a feminist psychoanalyst and philosopher, and Bracha Ettinger, artist and psychoanalyst, has influenced feminist theory in general and feminist literary criticism in particular.
feminism: In May 1947, following the November 1946 elections, the sociologist Robert Verdier minimized the "gender gap", stating in Le Populaire that women had not voted in a consistent way, dividing themselves, as men, according to social classes.
feminism: It encompasses work in a variety of disciplines, including anthropology, sociology, economics, women's studies, literary criticism, art history, psychoanalysis, and philosophy.
feminism: Feminist psychology emphasizes social context, lived experience, and qualitative analysis.
feminism: From 1891 to 1917, she edited the SPD women's newspaper Die Gleichheit (Equality).
feminism: The second approach, a feminist counterculture, embodies feminine writing to investigate a specifically feminine cinematic language.
feminism: The movement was started by lesbians such as Cris Williamson, Meg Christian, and Margie Adam, African-American women activists such as Bernice Johnson Reagon and her group Sweet Honey in the Rock, and peace activist Holly Near.
feminism: However, only 55 percent of women agreed that they have "full equality with men and the freedom to reach their full dreams and aspirations".
feminism: Modern feminism challenges the essentialist view of gender as biologically intrinsic.
feminism: Three prior referendums held in 1968, 1971 and 1973 had failed to secure women's right to vote.
feminism: Feminists have also worked to ensure access to contraception, legal abortions, and social integration; and to protect women and girls from sexual assault, sexual harassment, and domestic violence.
feminism: Its essence, she writes, is "incredulity that certain attitudes can still exist".
feminism: Carole Pateman argues that the patriarchal distinction "between masculinity and femininity is the political difference between freedom and subjection." In feminist theory the concept of patriarchy often includes all the social mechanisms that reproduce and exert male dominance over women.
feminism: In this view, what is or is not "degrading" is subjective, and each person has a right to decide for themselves what sexual acts they find degrading and if they want to participate in them or not.
feminism: In the late 20th century various feminists began to argue that gender roles are socially constructed, and that it is impossible to generalize women's experiences across cultures and histories.
feminism: Humanism played a significant role in protofeminism during the Renaissance period in such that humanists made educated women popular figures despite the challenge of the patriarchal organization of society.
feminism: Feminist theology is a movement that reconsiders the traditions, practices, scriptures, and theologies of religions from a feminist perspective.
feminism: Other legislation, such as the Married Women's Property Act 1870 in the UK and extended in the 1882 Act, became models for similar legislation in other British territories.
feminism: However, as the scholar Elizabeth Wright points out, "none of these French feminists align themselves with the feminist movement as it appeared in the Anglophone world".
feminism: In this respect, it is possible to be a humanist without being a feminist, but this does not preclude the existence of feminist humanism.
feminism: A part of the feminist research agenda is the examination of the ways in which power inequities are created or reinforced in scientific and academic institutions.
feminism: Some forms, such as white feminism and gender-critical feminism, have been criticized as taking into account only white, middle class, college-educated, heterosexual, or cisgender perspectives.
feminism: The feminist activist and author Carol Hanisch coined the slogan "The Personal is Political", which became synonymous with the second wave.
feminism: Feminist Philosophy, at the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
feminism: For example, Anne Fausto-Sterling's book, Myths of Gender, explores the assumptions embodied in scientific research that support a biologically essentialist view of gender.
feminism: According to a 2016 Survation poll for the Fawcett Society, 7 percent of Britons use the label of "feminist" to describe themselves, while 83 percent say they support equality of opportunity for women – this included higher support from men (86%) than women (81%).
feminism: Although feminist advocacy is, and has been, mainly focused on women's rights, some argue for the inclusion of men's liberation within its aims, because they believe that men are also harmed by traditional gender roles.
feminism: In or around 1992, a third wave was identified, characterized by a focus on individuality and diversity.
feminism: These have included the 2012 Delhi gang rape, 2012 Jimmy Savile allegations, the Bill Cosby allegations, 2014 Isla Vista killings, 2016 trial of Jian Ghomeshi, 2017 Harvey Weinstein allegations, and subsequent Weinstein effect, and the 2017 Westminster sexual scandals.
feminism: This is particularly the case for libertarian feminism which conceives of people as self-owners and therefore as entitled to freedom from coercive interference.
feminism: A Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792) by Mary Wollstonecraft, is one of the earliest works of feminist philosophy.
feminism: Thus, they seek to obtain knowledge through the examination of the experiences of women and to "uncover the consequences of omitting, misdescribing, or devaluing them" to account for a range of human experience.
feminism: Numerous feminist movements and ideologies have developed over the years, representing different viewpoints and political aims.
feminism: Feminist nonfiction has played an important role in voicing concerns about women's lived experiences.
feminism: This work is sometimes in collaboration with feminists and women's services, such as domestic violence and rape crisis centres.
feminism: Trailblazers from this period included Claire Johnston and Laura Mulvey, who also organized the Women's Event at the Edinburgh Film Festival.
feminism: write that in practice fascist society was hierarchical and emphasized male virility, with women maintaining a largely subordinate position.
feminism: She was also a commander of the Irish Citizens Army, which was led by the socialist and self-described feminist Irish leader James Connolly, during the 1916 Easter Rising.
feminism: Feminists in Ireland in the early 20th century included the revolutionary Irish Republican, suffragette and socialist Constance Markievicz, who in 1918 was the first woman elected to the British House of Commons.
feminism: Liberal, socialist, and radical feminism are sometimes referred to as the "Big Three" schools of feminist thought.
feminism: The main issues for early Jewish feminists in these movements were the exclusion from the all-male prayer group or minyan, the exemption from positive time-bound mitzvot, and women's inability to function as witnesses and to initiate divorce.
feminism: Feminist theory aims to understand gender inequality and focuses on gender politics, power relations, and sexuality.
feminism: Although rooted in Islam, the movement's pioneers have also used secular and Western feminist discourses and recognize the role of Islamic feminism as part of an integrated global feminist movement.
feminism: Pro-feminism is the support of feminism without implying that the supporter is a member of the feminist movement.
feminism: Third-wave feminists often focused on "micro-politics" and challenged the second wave's paradigm as to what was, or was not, good for women, and tended to use a post-structuralist interpretation of gender and sexuality.
feminism: They argue, for example, that in some cases feminists promote misandry and elevate women's interests above men's, and criticize some feminist positions as harmful to both men and women.
feminism: Georges Duby et al.
feminism: The term first wave was coined retroactively when the term second-wave feminism came into use.
feminism: In France, women obtained the right to vote only with the Provisional Government of the French Republic of 21 April 1944.
feminism: Fourth-wave feminism is a proposed extension of third-wave feminism which corresponds to a resurgence in interest in feminism beginning around 2012 and associated with the use of social media.
feminism: Some branches of feminism track the political leanings of the larger society to a greater or lesser degree, or focus on specific topics, such as the environment.
feminism: Modern feminist activism, scholarship, and policy tend to define contemporary feminism as a movement grounded in human rights, solidarity, and intersectionality.
feminism: Other historians assert that the term should be limited to the modern feminist movement and its descendants.
feminism: Matters such as the sex industry, sexual representation in the media, and issues regarding consent to sex under conditions of male dominance have been particularly controversial among feminists.
feminism: The US media tends to portray feminism negatively and feminists "are less often associated with day-to-day work/leisure activities of regular women".
feminism: Lesbian feminism is thus closely related.
feminism: More recently, Isabel Prochner's research explored how feminist perspectives can support positive change in industrial design, helping to identify systemic social problems and inequities in design and guiding socially sustainable and grassroots design solutions.
feminism: Sociological research shows that, in the US, increased educational attainment is associated with greater support for feminist issues.
feminism: In the U.S., the National Organization for Women (NOW) began in 1966 to seek women's equality, including through the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA), which did not pass, although some states enacted their own.
feminism: In December 2017, Time magazine chose several prominent female activists involved in the #MeToo movement, dubbed "the silence breakers", as Person of the Year.
feminism: Other countries of the EEC agreed to ensure that discriminatory laws would be phased out across the European Community.
feminism: The first she calls "feminist critique", in which the feminist reader examines the ideologies behind literary phenomena.
feminism: Issues that fourth-wave feminists focus on include street and workplace harassment, campus sexual assault, and rape culture.
feminism: The broad field of liberal feminism is sometimes confused with the more recent and smaller branch known as libertarian feminism, which tends to diverge significantly from mainstream liberal feminism.
feminism: Reproductive rights in the U.S.
feminism: During the 1930s–1950s heyday of the big Hollywood studios, the status of women in the industry was abysmal.
feminism: Feminist jurisprudence signifies a reaction to the philosophical approach of modern legal scholars, who typically see the law as a process for interpreting and perpetuating a society's universal, gender-neutral ideals.
feminism: Prior to this, in the 1970s, musicologists were beginning to discover women composers and performers, and had begun to review concepts of canon, genius, genre, and periodization from a feminist perspective.
feminism: Later, the Chinese Communist Party created projects aimed at integrating women into the workforce, and claimed that the revolution had successfully achieved women's liberation.
feminism: Those historians use the label "protofeminist" to describe earlier movements.
feminism: Feminism in psychology emerged as a critique of the dominant male outlook on psychological research where only male perspectives were studied with all male subjects.
feminism: Feminism became a principal concern of musicologists in the 1980s as part of the New Musicology.
feminism: Sara Ahmed argues that Black and postcolonial feminisms pose a challenge "to some of the organizing premises of Western feminist thought".
feminism: Feminist activists have established a range of feminist businesses, including feminist bookstores, credit unions, presses, mail-order catalogs, and restaurants.
feminism: This perspective argues that research and theory treat women and the feminist movement as insignificant and refuses to see traditional science as unbiased.
feminism: In addition, many feminist movements have embraced poetry as a vehicle through which to communicate feminist ideas to public audiences through anthologies, poetry collections, and public readings.
feminism: According to Chunn, "many feminists have voiced disquiet about the ways in which rights and equality discourses are now used against them".
feminism: An important figure in the history of women's literature is Hrotsvitha (c.
feminism: However, as recent research has demonstrated, as people are exposed to self-identified feminists and to discussions relating to various forms of feminism, their own self-identification with feminism increases.
feminism: Turn that outrage into political power.
feminism: In 1923 Hoda Shaarawi founded the Egyptian Feminist Union, became its president and a symbol of the Arab women's rights movement.
feminism: Later, opponents of women's entry into institutions of higher learning argued that education was too great a physical burden on women.
feminism: The movement encouraged and made "adolescent girls' standpoints central", allowing them to express themselves fully.
feminism: As women earned doctorates in psychology, women and their issues were introduced as legitimate topics of study.
feminism: In other words, the question of how women musicians fit into traditional music history was now being asked.
feminism: Although by the 20th century coverture had been abolished in the UK and US, married women in many continental European countries still had very few rights.
feminism: They were also influenced by earlier American feminist thought leaders Judith Sargent Murray, John Neal, Sarah Moore Grimké, and Margaret Fuller.
feminism: In the US, first-wave feminism is considered to have ended with the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution (1919), granting women the right to vote in all states.
feminism: Some radical feminists have proposed that because patriarchy is too deeply rooted in society, separatism is the only viable solution.
feminism: These views have been described as transphobic by many other feminists.
feminism: In some conservative and religious cultures marriage is regarded as an institution which requires a wife to be sexually available at all times, virtually without limit; thus, forcing or coercing sex on a wife is not considered a crime or even an abusive behaviour.
feminism: Radical feminists such as Catharine MacKinnon argue that women have very little control over their own bodies, with female sexuality being largely controlled and defined by men in patriarchal societies.
feminism: In the U.S., Betty Friedan emerged from a radical background to take leadership.
feminism: Fascism has been prescribed dubious stances on feminism by its practitioners and by women's groups.
feminism: In 1963, Betty Friedan's book The Feminine Mystique helped voice the discontent that American women felt.
feminism: Most western feminist historians contend that all movements working to obtain women's rights should be considered feminist movements, even when they did not (or do not) apply the term to themselves.
feminism: It is an aspect of feminist theology which seeks to advance and understand the equality of men and women morally, socially, spiritually, and in leadership from a Buddhist perspective.
feminism: During the late Qing period and reform movements such as the Hundred Days' Reform, Chinese feminists called for women's liberation from traditional roles and Neo-Confucian gender segregation.
feminism: Feminist attitudes to female sexuality have taken a few different directions.
feminism: Marxist feminism argues that capitalism is the root cause of women's oppression, and that discrimination against women in domestic life and employment is an effect of capitalist ideologies.
feminism: The term was first used to describe a backlash against second-wave feminism, but it is now a label for a wide range of theories that take critical approaches to previous feminist discourses and includes challenges to the second wave's ideas.
feminism: In 1928, this was extended to all women over 21.
feminism: It has been argued that there are two distinct approaches to independent, theoretically inspired feminist filmmaking.
feminism: The concepts appeared in the Netherlands in 1872, Great Britain in the 1890s, and the United States in 1910.
feminism: This was followed by Australia granting female suffrage in 1902.
feminism: Male participation in feminism is generally encouraged by feminists and is seen as an important strategy for achieving full societal commitment to gender equality.
feminism: In 1918 the Representation of the People Act was passed granting the vote to women over the age of 30 who owned property.
feminism: The second wave, the women's liberation movement, began in the 1960s and campaigned for legal and social equality for women.
feminism: 1972 saw the first feminist film festivals in the U.S.
feminism: and is still active.
feminism: Other anti-feminists opposed women's entry into the labour force, or their right to join unions, to sit on juries, or to obtain birth control and control of their sexuality.
feminism: and the U.K.
feminism: Degrading is a subjective term.
feminism: In Western feminist literary scholarship, Studies like Dale Spender's Mothers of the Novel (1986) and Jane Spencer's The Rise of the Woman Novelist (1986) were ground-breaking in their insistence that women have always been writing.
feminism: Particular works of literature have come to be known as key feminist texts.
feminism: Masculinist assumptions and objectives continue to dominate economic and geopolitical thinking.
feminism: Women's music also refers to the wider industry of women's music that goes beyond the performing artists to include studio musicians, producers, sound engineers, technicians, cover artists, distributors, promoters, and festival organizers who are also women.
feminism: Neoliberalism has failed to address significant problems such as the devaluation of feminized labor, the structural privileging of men and masculinity, and the politicization of women's subordination in the family and the workplace.
feminism: Collier's New Encyclopedia.
feminism: In addition, politically liberal people are more likely to support feminist ideals compared to those who are conservative.
feminism: write, a postmodern approach to feminism highlights "the existence of multiple truths (rather than simply men and women's standpoints)".
feminism: Other postfeminists say that feminism is no longer relevant to today's society.
feminism: Many American feminists adapted the language and theories of black equality activism and drew parallels between women's rights and the rights of non-white people.
feminism: Jewish feminism is a movement that seeks to improve the religious, legal, and social status of women within Judaism and to open up new opportunities for religious experience and leadership for Jewish women.
feminism: However, in line with Sinn Féin abstentionist policy, she would not take her seat in the House of Commons.
feminism: Some radical feminists argue that all cultures are, in one way or another, dominated by ideologies that deny women's right to sexual expression, because men under a patriarchy define sex on their own terms.
feminism: Some people have opposed feminism on the grounds that they believe it is contrary to traditional values or religious beliefs.
feminism: In 1956, President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt initiated "state feminism", which outlawed discrimination based on gender and granted women's suffrage, but also blocked political activism by feminist leaders.
feminism: Feminist jurisprudence is a branch of jurisprudence that examines the relationship between women and law.
feminism: Individualist feminist, Wendy McElroy wrote in her book, XXX: A Woman's Right to Pornography, "let's examine [...] the idea that pornography is degrading to women.
feminism: 'Deconstruction' concerns itself with analysing and breaking down codes of mainstream cinema, aiming to create a different relationship between the spectator and dominant cinema.
feminism: In 1907 she became the leader of the newly founded "Women's Office" at the SPD.
feminism: Do not have sex with them, do not break bread with them, do not nurture them if they don't prioritize our freedom to control our bodies and our lives.
feminism: Other theorists making a powerful impact on feminist film include Teresa de Lauretis, Anneke Smelik and Kaja Silverman.
feminism: Many male feminists and pro-feminists are active in both women's rights activism, feminist theory, and masculinity studies.
feminism: Furthermore, despite calls for greater attention to be paid to structures of gender inequity in the academic literature, structural analyses of gender bias rarely appear in highly cited psychological journals, especially in the commonly studied areas of psychology and personality.
