field_hockey: In the United States, the games at the junior high level consist of four 12-minute periods, while the high-school level consists of four 15-minute periods.
field_hockey: Penalty for this is the opposing team receives the ball and if the problem continues, the player can be carded.
field_hockey: The teams' object is to play the ball into their attacking circle and, from there, hit, push or flick the ball into the goal, scoring a goal.
field_hockey: If the tie still persists, more rounds are played until one team has scored.
field_hockey: It lasted just six years, before being revived by nine founding members.
field_hockey: Standard field hockey balls are hard spherical balls, made of solid plastic (sometimes over a cork core), and are usually white, although they can be any colour as long as they contrast with the playing surface.
field_hockey: The ball is played only once at goal by the attacker using a push, flick or scoop stroke.
field_hockey: No shoving/using your body/stick to prevent advancement in the other team.
field_hockey: The first international competition took place in 1895 (Ireland 3, Wales 0), and the International Rules Board was founded in 1900.
field_hockey: The flat side is always on the "natural" side for a right-handed person swinging the stick at the ball from right to left.
field_hockey: In Sweden, the term landhockey is used, and to some degree in Norway, where the game is governed by Norges Bandyforbund.
field_hockey: When taking an attacking free hit, the ball may not be hit straight into the circle if the hitting player is within their attacking 23-meter area (25-yard area).
field_hockey: In the same way a high-velocity hit at very close range into an opponent, but below knee height, could be considered to be dangerous or reckless play in the view of the umpire, especially when safer alternatives are open to the striker of the ball.
field_hockey: For this reason players now use the tight curved sticks.
field_hockey: Champions Trophy (women's and men's versions) – both replaced by the Pro Leagues.
field_hockey: Finally there may not be three players touching the ball at one time.
field_hockey: by Constance Applebee, starting with a tour of Seven Sisters colleges in 1901 and continuing through Applebee's 24-year tenure as athletic director of Bryn Mawr College.
field_hockey: Of the men's teams, Pakistan has won the Hockey World Cup four times, more times than any other side.
field_hockey: The Netherlands, Australia and Argentina are the most successful national teams among women.
field_hockey: Each umpire generally controls the half of the field and the shooting circle to their right, divided roughly diagonally, but they will often defer to the other's judgement when uncertainties arise.
field_hockey: Movement between lines like this is particularly common across all positions.
field_hockey: The team with more goals after 60 minutes wins the game.
field_hockey: The shooting circle, most commonly known as 'the D' due to its shape, is 15 m (16 yd) from the base line.
field_hockey: In general even potentially dangerous play is not penalised if an opponent is not disadvantaged by it or, obviously, not injured by it so that he cannot continue.
field_hockey: Researchers disagree over how to interpret this image.
field_hockey: Goalkeepers are allowed to touch the ball with any part of their body when inside their shooting circle.
field_hockey: No other player is allowed to touch the ball except with their stick, though a player's hand is considered part of the stick if holding the stick.
field_hockey: Since 2017 the game consists of four periods of 15 minutes with a 2-minute break after every period, and a 15-minute intermission at half time before changing ends.
field_hockey: Tournaments included are:
field_hockey: The modern game was developed at public schools in 19th-century England and it is now played globally.
field_hockey: In Inner Mongolia, China, the Daur people have for about 1,000 years been playing beikou, a game with some similarities to field hockey.
field_hockey: The word baculum is the Latin for 'stick', so the reference would appear to be to a game played with sticks.
field_hockey: The goalposts and crossbar must be white and rectangular in shape, and should be 2 in (51 mm) wide and 2–3 in (51–76 mm) deep.
field_hockey: However, if the ball is deemed to be below backboard height, the ball can be subsequently deflected above this height by another player (defender or attacker), providing that this deflection does not lead to danger.
field_hockey: If the scores remain equal, the game enters a one-on-one competition where each team chooses five players to dribble from the 25-yard (23 m) line down to the circle against the opposing goalkeeper.
field_hockey: As of August 2025 the Dutch lead both men's and women's team FIH world rankings.
field_hockey: The belief is based on modern translations of the proclamation, which was originally in Latin and explicitly forbade the games "Pilam Manualem, Pedivam, & Bacularem: & ad Canibucam & Gallorum Pugnam".
field_hockey: All players must start in their defensive half (apart from the player making the pass), but the ball may be played in any direction along the floor.
field_hockey: Three yellows risks a red card, and a substitute will serve out whatever time imposed by the officials.
field_hockey: There will be players on the ball (offensively – ball carriers; defensively – pressure, support players, and movement players.
field_hockey: According to the International Hockey Federation (FIH), "the roots of hockey are buried deep in antiquity".
field_hockey: A yellow card is an official suspension similar to the penalty box in ice hockey.
field_hockey: However, in July 2019 England Hockey announced that 17.5-minute quarters would only be implemented in elite domestic club games.
field_hockey: For safety reasons, the first shot of a penalty corner must not exceed 460 mm high (the height of the "backboard" of the goal) at the point it crosses the goal line if it is hit.
field_hockey: Sultan Azlan Shah Hockey Tournament – held annually in Malaysia, an invitational tournament.
field_hockey: For example, a skilful attacker may lift the ball over a defender's stick or prone body and run past them, however if the attacker lifts the ball into or at the defender's body, this would almost certainly be regarded as dangerous.
field_hockey: Women's FIH Pro League and Men's FIH Pro League – held annually since 2019, but not in 2020 because of COVID-19.
field_hockey: Few additional markings are needed as there is no penalty circle nor penalty corners; shots can be taken from anywhere on the pitch.
field_hockey: This form of shooting was developed because it is not height restricted in the same way as the first hit shot at the goal and players with good technique are able to drag-flick with as much power as many others can hit a ball.
field_hockey: Tackles are made by placing the stick into the path of the ball or playing the stick head or shaft directly at the ball.
field_hockey: Different national associations also have slightly differing rules on player equipment.
field_hockey: The team with the most goals at the end of play wins the match.
field_hockey: by turning the handle through approximately 180° (while a reverse edge hit would turn the stick head through approximately 90° from the position of an upright forehand stroke with the 'face' of the stick head).
field_hockey: A popular variant of field hockey is indoor hockey, which is 6-a-side (5-a-side during 2014–2015) using a field which is reduced to approximately 40 m × 20 m (131 ft × 66 ft).
field_hockey: The first known club was formed in 1849 at Blackheath in south-east London, but the modern rules grew out of a version played by Middlesex cricket clubs as a winter activity.
field_hockey: Defunct tournaments:
field_hockey: The ball must be placed on the sideline, with the hit taken from as near the place the ball went out of play as possible.
field_hockey: Further, a goalkeeper, or player with goalkeeping privileges who is wearing a helmet, must not take part in the match outside the 23m area they are defending, except when taking a penalty stroke.
field_hockey: The Hockey Association was founded in 1876.
field_hockey: However, local playing conditions may mandate that cards are awarded only progressively, and not allow any second awards.
field_hockey: Sticks were traditionally made of wood, but are now often made also with fibreglass, kevlar or carbon fibre composites.
field_hockey: Although there has been a change in the wording of this rule from 1 January 2007, the current FIH umpires' briefing instructs umpires not to change the way they interpret this rule.
field_hockey: In South America, most specifically in Chile, the local natives of the 16th century used to play a game called chueca, which also shares common elements with hockey.
field_hockey: Y indicates a reference has been reviewed and is approved.
field_hockey: In recent years, the penalty corner has gained importance as a goal scoring opportunity.
field_hockey: In other countries, participation is fairly evenly balanced between men and women.
field_hockey: In Ancient Egypt, there is a depiction of two figures playing with sticks and ball in the Beni Hasan tomb of Khety, an administrator of Dynasty XI.
field_hockey: When shown a green card, the player may have to leave the field for two minutes, depending on national regulations, though at international standards the player has to leave the field for two minutes, but any further infractions will result in a yellow or red card.
field_hockey: In the United States, field hockey is played predominantly by girls and women.
field_hockey: The 'hard' forehand edge hit was banned after similar concerns were expressed about the ability of players to direct the ball accurately, but the reverse edge hit does appear to be more predictable and controllable than its counterpart.
field_hockey: The first club, the Molesey Ladies, was founded in 1887.
field_hockey: Two players from opposing teams can battle for the ball, however if another player interferes it is considered third party and the ball automatically goes to the team who only had one player involved in the third party.
field_hockey: The first national association was the Irish Ladies Hockey Union in 1894, and though rebuffed by the Hockey Association, women's field hockey grew rapidly around the world.
field_hockey: Players may not obstruct another's chance of hitting the ball in any way.
field_hockey: If the score is tied at the end of the game, either a draw is declared or the game goes into extra time, or there is a penalty shoot-out, depending on the format of the competition.
field_hockey: Field hockey was played at the Summer Olympics in 1908 and 1920.
field_hockey: Women's FIH Hockey World League and Men's FIH Hockey World League – both replaced by the Pro Leagues.
field_hockey: No player may wear a helmet or other goalkeeping equipment, neither will any player be able to play the ball with any other part of the body than with their stick.
field_hockey: Later evidence suggest that the ancient Greeks, Romans and Aztecs all played hockey-like games.
field_hockey: Throughout the Middle Ages to the Early Modern era, such games often involved the local clergy or secular aristocracy, and in some periods were limited to them by various anti-gaming edicts, or even banned altogether.
field_hockey: Tackling with physical contact and otherwise physically obstructing players is not permitted.
field_hockey: To avoid the tackle, the ball carrier will either pass the ball to a teammate using any of the push, flick, or hit strokes, or attempt to maneuver or "drag" the ball around the tackle, trying to deceive the tackler.
field_hockey: The backboard runs the full 3.66 m (12.0 ft) width of the goal, while the sideboards are 1.2 m (3 ft 11 in) deep.
field_hockey: Field players may only play the ball with the face of the stick.
field_hockey: The current rule book is effective from 1 January 2024.
field_hockey: In Northern Europe, the games of hurling (Ireland) and knattleikr (Iceland), both team ball games involving sticks to drive a ball to the opponents' goal, date at least as far back as the Early Middle Ages.
field_hockey: Many countries run extensive junior, senior, and masters club competitions.
field_hockey: The stick has two sides; one rounded and one flat; only the flat face of the stick is allowed to progress the ball.
field_hockey: on the level of the game, in order to maintain game flow, which umpires are in general in both Rules and Briefing instructed to do, by not penalising when it is unnecessary to do so; this is also a matter at the umpire's discretion.
field_hockey: Teddington Hockey Club formed the modern game by introducing the striking circle and changing the ball to a sphere from a rubber cube.
field_hockey: The word hockey itself has no clear origin.
field_hockey: In 2006, the Irish Hockey Association reported that the gender split among its players was approximately 65% female and 35% male.
field_hockey: This type of hit is now more commonly referred to as the "forehand sweep" where the ball is hit with the flat side or "natural" side of the stick and not the rounded edge.
field_hockey: Similarly, field players are permitted to use their stick.
field_hockey: Slide tackling is permitted as long as it is with the intention of clearing the ball, not aimed at a player.
field_hockey: Field hockey goals are made of two upright posts, joined at the top by a horizontal crossbar, with a net positioned to catch the ball when it passes through the goalposts.
field_hockey: As hockey has a very dynamic style of play, it is difficult to simplify positions to the static formations which are common in association football.
field_hockey: A previous requirement was for women to wear skirts during play.
field_hockey: The specific goal-keeping sticks have another curve at the end of the stick, to give it more surface area to block the ball.
field_hockey: In many competitions (such as regular club competition, or in pool games in FIH international tournaments such as the Olympics or the World Cup), a tied result stands and the overall competition standings are adjusted accordingly.
field_hockey: If the game is played in a countdown clock, like ice hockey, a goal can only count if the ball completely crosses the goal line and into the goal before time expires, not when the ball leaves the stick in the act of shooting.
field_hockey: Discussions started about a common rule book.
field_hockey: When the ball passes completely over the sidelines (on the sideline is still in), it is returned to play with a sideline hit, taken by a member of the team whose players were not the last to touch the ball before crossing the sideline.
field_hockey: "New hockey laws ended India's rule – summary of some historical rule changes".
field_hockey: All the parameters of an attacking free hit within the attacking quarter of the playing surface apply.
field_hockey: Metal is forbidden from use in field hockey sticks, due to the risk of injury from sharp edges if the stick were to break.
field_hockey: A game similar to field hockey was played in the 17th century in Punjab state in India under name khido khundi (khido refers to the woolen ball, and khundi to the stick).
field_hockey: For example, in the 2008–09 season, England Hockey reported 2,488 registered men's teams, 1,969 women's teams, 1,042 boys' teams, 966 girls' teams and 274 mixed teams.
field_hockey: All other players in the defending team must be beyond the centre line, that is not in their 'own' half of the pitch, until the ball is in play.
field_hockey: This last restriction has been removed but the stick should still not be used in a way that endangers an opponent) or attempting to tackle, (fouls relating to tripping, impeding and obstruction).
field_hockey: The two most significant field hockey tournaments are the Olympic Games tournament and the Hockey World Cup, both of which are held every four years.
field_hockey: The two oldest trophies are the Irish Senior Cup, which dates back to 1894, and the Irish Junior Cup, a second XI-only competition instituted in 1895.
field_hockey: If it crosses the back line after last touched by an attacker, a 15 m (16 yd) hit is awarded.
field_hockey: Umpires, if the free hit would have been in the attacking 23 m area, may upgrade the free hit to a penalty corner for dissent or other misconduct after the free hit has been awarded.
field_hockey: While a player is taking a free hit or starting a corner the back swing of their hit cannot be too high for this is considered dangerous.
field_hockey: India has won gold at the Summer Olympics eight times, including in six successive Olympiads.
field_hockey: Men and women are represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic Games, World Cup, FIH Pro League, Junior World Cup and in past also World League, Champions Trophy.
field_hockey: All ticks will be removed when the article reconstruction is complete.
field_hockey: Each player carries a hockey stick that normally measures between 80 and 95 cm (31 and 37 in); shorter or longer sticks are available.
field_hockey: It took until 1982 for the two bodies to merge, but this allowed the introduction of women's field hockey to the Olympic games from 1980 where, as in the men's game, the Netherlands, Germany, and Australia have been consistently strong.
field_hockey: The sport was largely introduced in the U.S.
field_hockey: Argentina has emerged as a team to be reckoned with since 2000, winning the world championship in 2002 and 2010 and medals at the last three Olympics.
field_hockey: Wooden sticks, though once standard, have become increasingly uncommon as technological advancements have made synthetic materials cheaper.
field_hockey: Further, the player with the ball may not deliberately use his body to push a defender out of the way.
field_hockey: The older 'English' sticks had a longer bend, making it very hard to use the stick on the reverse.
field_hockey: There are no set plays unless your team has them.
field_hockey: In addition, the regulation guidelines for the indoor hockey stick require a slightly thinner, lighter stick than an outdoor one.
field_hockey: At the elite level, sticks with a very high carbon content are near universally preferred.
field_hockey: The player has eight seconds to score against the goalkeeper while keeping the ball in bounds.
field_hockey: Although positions will typically be categorised as either fullback, halfback, midfield/inner or striker, it is important for players to have an understanding of every position on the field.
field_hockey: Additionally, the men's and women's Pro League are held each year for the nine top-ranked teams.
field_hockey: Penalty strokes are replaced by a "challenge" which is like the one-on-one method used in a penalty shoot-out.
field_hockey: The player must also leave the pitch and surrounding area.
field_hockey: Goalkeepers can use either a specialised stick, or an ordinary field hockey stick.
field_hockey: Each team may also play with:
field_hockey: it gets stuck in their protective equipment), a penalty corner is awarded.
field_hockey: Also, all players (from both teams) must be at least 5 m from any free hit awarded to the attack within the 23 m area.
field_hockey: The game is played between two teams of eleven; 10 field players and one goal keeper are permitted to be on the pitch at any one time.
field_hockey: Hockey5s was also used for the Pacific Games in 2015 and at the African Youth Games in 2018.
field_hockey: Most hockey field dimensions were originally fixed using whole numbers of imperial measures.
field_hockey: In recent years, it has become increasingly played on the West Coast and in the Midwest.
field_hockey: With the 2009 changes to the rules regarding free hits in the attacking 23 m area, the common tactic of hitting the ball hard into the circle was forbidden.
field_hockey: There are sometimes minor variations in rules from competition to competition; for instance, the duration of matches is often varied for junior competitions or for carnivals.
field_hockey: Usually field hockey goalkeepers also wear extensive additional protective equipment including chest guards, padded shorts, heavily padded hand protectors, groin protectors, neck protectors and arm guards.
field_hockey: The FIH felt it was a dangerous practice that could easily lead to raised deflections and injuries in the circle, which is often crowded at a free-hit situation, and outlawed it.
field_hockey: The balls have a diameter of 71.3–74.8 mm (2.81–2.94 in) and a mass of 156–163 g (5.5–5.7 oz).
field_hockey: Set plays are often utilised for specific situations such as a penalty corner or free hit.
field_hockey: In the early 1970s, synthetic grass fields began to be used for hockey, with the first Olympic Games on this surface being held at Montreal in 1976.
field_hockey: The duration of the match is three 12-minute periods with an interval of two minutes between periods; golden goal periods are multiple 5-minute periods.
field_hockey: Goalkeepers may use either a field player's stick or a specialised goalkeeping stick provided always the stick is of legal dimensions.
field_hockey: Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, New Zealand, Australia, and Spain have ascended since the late 1980s, as grass playing surfaces were replaced with artificial turf.
field_hockey: In 2022, the FIH staged its first senior international Hockey5s event, with a men's and women's event being held in Lausanne.
field_hockey: These umpires are often assisted by a technical bench including a timekeeper and record keeper at international and high level domestic games.
field_hockey: Water-based synthetic turfs enable the ball to be transferred more quickly than on sand-based surfaces.
field_hockey: Since March 2013, when tie breaking is required, the official FIH Tournament Regulations mandate to no longer have extra time and go directly into a penalty shoot-out when a classification match ends in a tie.
field_hockey: When an attacking free hit is awarded within 5 m of the circle everyone including the person taking the penalty must be five meters from the circle and everyone apart from the person taking the free hit must be five meters away from the ball.
field_hockey: Green cards are normally triangular, yellow cards rectangular and red cards circular.
field_hockey: The length of the stick is based on the player's individual height: the top of the stick usually comes to the player's hip, and taller players typically have longer sticks.
field_hockey: In the early 1970s, artificial turf began to be used.
field_hockey: Men's hockey united under the FIH in 1970.
field_hockey: The ball can be lifted from a free hit but not by hitting, the ball must be flicked or scooped to lift from a free hit.
field_hockey: Metric measurements are now the official dimensions as laid down by the International Hockey Federation (FIH) in the Rules of Hockey.
field_hockey: Although at higher levels this was considered tactically risky and low-percentage at creating scoring opportunities, it was used with some effect to 'win' penalty corners by forcing the ball onto a defender's foot or to deflect high (and dangerously) off a defender's stick.
field_hockey: A ball that hits a player above the knee may on some occasions not be penalised, this is at the umpire's discretion.
field_hockey: In order to produce a powerful hit, usually for travel over long distances or shooting at the goal, the stick is raised higher and swung with maximum power at the ball, a stroke sometimes known as a "drive".
field_hockey: Other rules include; no foot-to-ball contact, no use of hands, no obstructing other players, no high back swing, no hacking, and no third party.
field_hockey: Prior to the start of the game, a coin is tossed and the winning captain can choose a starting end or whether to start with the ball.
field_hockey: A free hit must be taken from within playing distance of the place of the offence for which it was awarded and the ball must be stationary when the free hit is taken.
field_hockey: Each team starts with the ball in one half, and the team that conceded the goal has possession for the restart.
field_hockey: Water-based surfaces are also less abrasive than sand-based surfaces and reduce the level of injury to players when they come into contact with the surface.
field_hockey: Left-handed sticks are rare, as International Hockey Federation rules forbid their use in a game.
field_hockey: Indoor hockey is usually played on a synthetic hard court or hardwood sports flooring, and beach field hockey is played on sand.
field_hockey: For the purposes of the rules, all players on the team in possession of the ball are attackers, and those on the team without the ball are defenders, yet throughout the game being played you are always "defending" your goal and "attacking" the opposite goal.
field_hockey: A spot 0.15 m (6 in) in diameter, called the penalty spot or stroke mark, is placed with its centre 6.40 m (7 yd) from the centre of each goal.
field_hockey: If the shot is saved, play is restarted with a 15 m hit to the defenders.
field_hockey: At high-school level, this is called a self pass and was adopted in Pennsylvania in 2010 as a legal technique for putting the ball in play.
field_hockey: The "Slap" stroke (a sweeping motion towards the ball, where the stick is kept on or close to the ground when striking the ball) is classed as a hit, and so the first shot at goal must be below backboard height for this type of shot also.
field_hockey: Other notable men's nations include Argentina, England (who combine with other British "Home Nations" to form the Great Britain side at Olympic events) and South Korea.
field_hockey: It is now also even possible for teams to have a full eleven outfield players and no goalkeeper at all.
field_hockey: For example, it is not uncommon to see a halfback overlap and end up in either attacking position, with the midfield and strikers being responsible for re-adjusting to fill the space they left.
field_hockey: Synthetic pitches changed most aspects of field hockey, gaining speed.
field_hockey: At the highest level, field hockey is a fast moving, highly skilled game, with players using fast moves with the stick, quick accurate passing, and hard hits, in attempts to keep possession and move the ball towards the goal.
field_hockey: In American college play, a seven-a-side overtime period consists of a 10-minute golden goal period with seven players for each team.
field_hockey: This fluid approach to hockey has been responsible for developing an international trend towards players occupying spaces on the field, not having assigned positions.
field_hockey: While goalkeepers are allowed to use their feet and hands to clear the ball, like field players they may only use the one side of their stick.
field_hockey: In the United States, the NCAA has its own rules for inter-collegiate competitions; high school associations similarly play to different rules, usually using the rules published by the National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS).
field_hockey: The modern game developed at public schools in 19th-century England.
field_hockey: It was dropped in 1924, leading to the foundation of the Fédération Internationale de Hockey sur Gazon (FIH) as an international governing body by seven continental European nations; and hockey was reinstated as an Olympic game in 1928.
field_hockey: The term field hockey is used primarily in Canada and the United States where hockey more often refers to ice hockey.
field_hockey: Neither goalkeepers or players with goalkeeping privileges may lie on the ball, however, they are permitted to use arms, hands and any other part of their body to push the ball away.
field_hockey: The use of the stick to strike an opponent will usually be much more severely dealt with by the umpires than offences such as barging, impeding and obstruction with the body, although these are also dealt with firmly, especially when these fouls are intentional.
field_hockey: The stick has a rounded handle, has a J-shaped hook at the bottom, and is flattened on the left side (when looking down the handle with the hook facing upwards).
field_hockey: Every player has a role depending on their relationship to the ball if the team communicates throughout the play of the game.
field_hockey: 2000 BC, and in Ethiopia c.
field_hockey: It was recently discovered that increasing the depth of the face bow made it easier to get high speeds from the dragflick and made the stroke easier to execute.
field_hockey: Synthetic pitches are now mandatory for all international tournaments and for most national competitions.
field_hockey: Tackling is permitted as long as the tackler does not make contact with the attacker or the other person's stick before playing the ball (contact after the tackle may also be penalised if the tackle was made from a position where contact was inevitable).
field_hockey: Highly skillful players can sometimes get the better of more than one opponent and retain the ball and successfully pass or shoot but this tends to use more energy than quick early passing.
field_hockey: By the 12th century, a team ball game called la soule or choule, akin to a chaotic and sometimes long-distance version of hockey or rugby football (depending on whether sticks were used in a particular local variant), was regularly played in France and southern Britain between villages or parishes.
field_hockey: In the early 1990s, Australia emerged as the strongest women's country, though retirement of a number of players has weakened the team somewhat.
field_hockey: An Asian qualification tournament for two places at the 2014 Youth Olympic Games was the first time an FIH event used the Hockey5s format.
field_hockey: This led to the International Federation of Women's Hockey Association (IFWHA) in 1927, though this did not include many continental European countries where women played as sections of men's associations and were affiliated to the FIH.
field_hockey: Hockey uses a three-tier penalty card system of warnings and suspensions:
field_hockey: The 2007 rulebook saw major changes regarding goalkeepers.
field_hockey: Since 2014, some international games have four 15-minute quarters with 2 minutes break between each quarter and 5 minutes break between quarter two and three.
field_hockey: Depending on national rules, if a coach is sent off a player may have to leave the field too for the time the coach is sent off.
field_hockey: Commonwealth Games – held every four years since 1998 between members of the Commonwealth of Nations.
field_hockey: This may be used to offer a tactical advantage, for example, if a team is trailing with only a short time to play, or to allow for play to commence if no goalkeeper or kit is available.
field_hockey: It is this characteristic that has made them the surface of choice for international and national league competitions.
field_hockey: However, they cannot receive the same card for the same offence (for example two yellows for dangerous play), and the second must always be a more serious card.
field_hockey: This is due to the negative ecological effects of the high water requirements of water-based synthetic fields.
field_hockey: Many private American schools play 12-minute quarters, and some have adopted FIH rules rather than NFHS rules.
field_hockey: National associations may also choose to introduce these rules for their domestic competitions.
field_hockey: Play is not stopped for a substitution (except of a goalkeeper), the players leave and rejoin the match simultaneously at the half-way line.
field_hockey: Entering the Olympics in 1928, India won all five games without conceding a goal, and won from 1932 until 1956, and then in 1964 and 1980.
field_hockey: Pacific Games – held occasionally since 1979.
field_hockey: These free hits are taken in-line with where the foul was committed (taking a line parallel with the sideline between where the offence was committed, or the ball went out of play).
field_hockey: As for the female teams, the Netherlands has won the Hockey World Cup the most times, with six titles.
field_hockey: In addition to their colours, field hockey penalty cards are often shaped differently, so they can be recognised easily.
field_hockey: The match is officiated by two field umpires.
field_hockey: It is generally only considered an offence to encroach on an opponent receiving a lifted ball that has been lifted to above head height (although the height is not specified in rule) and is falling.
field_hockey: USA Field Hockey produces an annual summary of the differences.
field_hockey: The FIH is also responsible for organizing the Hockey Rules Board and developing the sport's rules.
field_hockey: India and Pakistan dominated men's hockey until the early 1980s, winning eight Olympic golds and three of the first five world cups, respectively.
field_hockey: If the back side of the stick is used, it is a penalty and the other team will get the ball back.
field_hockey: In Sweden and Finland, the term landhockey and maahockey respectively are used, translating to "ground" hockey in opposition to the more standard ice hockey variant.
field_hockey: This free hit is played by the attacking team from a spot on the 23-metre line, in line with where the ball went out of play.
field_hockey: 27 February 2010.
field_hockey: If a player is dribbling the ball and either loses control and kicks the ball or another player interferes that player is not permitted to gain control and continue dribbling.
field_hockey: The playing time may be shortened, particularly when younger players are involved, or for some tournament play.
field_hockey: Players are required to wear mouth guards and shin guards in order to play the game.
field_hockey: Ric Charlesworth, the former Australian coach, has been a strong critic of the unrestricted use of the reverse edge hit.
field_hockey: Champions Challenge (women's and men's versions) – both replaced by the World Hockey Leagues.
field_hockey: The grip may be made of a variety of materials, including chamois leather, which improves grip in the wet and gives the stick a softer touch and different weighting it wrapped over a preexisting grip.
field_hockey: It is now played globally, particularly in parts of Western Europe, South Asia, Southern Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Argentina, and parts of the United States, primarily New England and the mid-Atlantic states.
field_hockey: African Games – held occasionally since 1987.
field_hockey: The coach may have plays that sends the ball between two defenders and lets the player attack the opposing team's goal.
field_hockey: The ball may be hit, pushed or lifted in any direction by the team offended against.
field_hockey: When not in possession of the ball numerical superiority is used to isolate and channel an opponent in possession and 'mark out' any passing options so that an interception or a tackle may be made to gain possession.
field_hockey: The game ends after a goal is scored, the ball goes out of bounds, a foul is committed (ending in either a penalty stroke or flick or the end of the one-on-one) or time expires.
field_hockey: Other prominent women's teams are Germany, Great Britain, China, South Korea and India.
field_hockey: In its 2008 census, Hockey Australia reported 40,534 male club players and 41,542 female.
field_hockey: All but three of Pakistan's 11 Olympic medals so far have been in field hockey, including three gold, three silver, and two bronze medals.
field_hockey: The opposing team cannot try to tackle this play until the ball has been pushed back.
field_hockey: The game begins with a pass back from the centre-forward usually to the centre-half back from the halfway line.
field_hockey: Most umpires will opt for a minimum of five minutes' duration without substitution; the maximum time is at the discretion of the umpire, depending on the seriousness of the offence; for example the second yellow to the same player or the first for danger might be given ten minutes.
field_hockey: According to the Rules of Hockey 2015 issued by the FIH there are only two criteria for a dangerously played ball.
field_hockey: The goalkeeper can also remove their helmet for this action.
field_hockey: As the name suggests, Hockey5s is a hockey variant which features five players on each team (including a goalkeeper).
field_hockey: However, many associations follow the previous procedure consisting of two periods of 7.5 minutes of "golden goal" extra time during which the game ends as soon as one team scores.
field_hockey: Champions Challenge II (women's and men's versions) – both replaced by the World Hockey Leagues.
field_hockey: Pakistan won Olympic gold in men's hockey in 1960, 1968, and 1984.
field_hockey: Also, there is a newer rule requiring certain types of sticks be used.
field_hockey: So, for example, a lifted shot at the goal which is still rising as it crosses the goal line (or would have been rising as it crossed the goal line) can be legitimately followed up by any of the attacking team looking for a rebound.
field_hockey: The term "falling ball" is important in what may be termed encroaching offences.
field_hockey: However, neither goalkeepers, or players with goalkeeping privileges are permitted to conduct themselves in a manner which is dangerous to other players by taking advantage of the protective equipment they wear.
field_hockey: There is an unlimited number of times a team can sub in and out.
field_hockey: If the ball is "played" with the rounded part of the stick (i.e., stopped or hit), it will result in a penalty, though accidental touches are not an offence as long as they do not materially affect play.
field_hockey: Lying on the ball deliberately will result in a penalty stroke, whereas if an umpire deems a goalkeeper has lain on the ball accidentally (e.g.
field_hockey: Short corners begin with five defenders (usually including the keeper) positioned behind the back line and the ball placed at least 10 yards from the nearest goal post.
field_hockey: New tactics and techniques such as the Indian dribble developed, followed by new rules to take account.
field_hockey: As mentioned above, a 15 m hit is awarded if an attacking player commits a foul forward of that line, or if the ball passes over the back line off an attacker.
field_hockey: A jab tackle, for example, might accidentally lift the ball above knee height into an opponent from close range but at such low velocity as not to be, in the opinion of the umpire, dangerous play.
field_hockey: In East Asia, a similar game was entertained, using a carved wooden stick and ball, before 300 BC.
field_hockey: There are different types of hooks like (Indian style) that we have nowadays.
field_hockey: The velocity of the ball is not mentioned in the rules concerning a dangerously played ball.
field_hockey: It is not against the rules to bounce the ball on the stick and even to run with it while doing so, as long as that does not lead to a potentially dangerous conflict with an opponent who is attempting to make a tackle.
field_hockey: The ball is often covered with indentations to reduce aquaplaning that can cause an inconsistent ball speed on wet surfaces.
field_hockey: For instance, many teams have penalty corner variations that they can use to beat the defensive team.
field_hockey: The player must play the ball any distance in two separate motions, before continuing as if it were a play-on situation.
field_hockey: The IFWHA held conferences every three years, and tournaments associated with these were the primary IFWHA competitions.
field_hockey: The changes allows a player taking a free hit to pass the ball to themselves.
field_hockey: Further clarification of NFHS's rule requiring protective eyewear states, "effective 1 January 2019, all eye protection shall be permanently labeled with the current ASTM 2713 standard for field hockey".
field_hockey: Edge hitting of the ball underwent a two-year "experimental period", twice the usual length of an "experimental trial" and is still a matter of some controversy within the game.
field_hockey: 510 BC, which may have been called Κερητίζειν (kerētízein) because it was played with a horn (κέρας, kéras in Ancient Greek) and a ball.
field_hockey: Importantly, this is not a "play on" situation, but to the untrained eye it may appear to be.
field_hockey: The stick has evolved significantly over the game's history in its composition and shape.
field_hockey: A similar field hockey or ground billiards variant, called suigan, was played in China during the Ming dynasty (1368–1644, post-dating the Mongol-led Yuan dynasty).
field_hockey: At first, after this feature was introduced, the Hockey Rules Board placed a limit of 50 mm on the maximum depth of bow over the length of the stick but experience quickly demonstrated this to be excessive.
field_hockey: Some of the tactics used resemble football (soccer), but with greater ball speed.
field_hockey: This is a list of the major international field hockey tournaments, in chronological order.
field_hockey: The Times of India.
field_hockey: This player movement has made it easy for teams to transition between formations such as: "3 at the back", "5 midfields", "2 at the front", and more.
field_hockey: Women's field hockey was first played at British universities and schools.
field_hockey: However, in recent years there has been a massive increase in the number of "water-based" artificial turfs.
field_hockey: The basic tactic in field hockey, as in association football and many other team games, is to outnumber the opponent in a particular area of the field at a moment in time.
field_hockey: Sultan Ibrahim Ismail Hockey Tournament – held annually for athletes aged under-21 in Malaysia, an invitational tournament.
field_hockey: In the case of a second yellow card for a different breach of the rules (for example a yellow for deliberate foot, and a second later in the game for dangerous play) the temporary suspension would be expected to be of considerably longer duration than the first.
field_hockey: Conversely, if no advantage is gained from kicking the ball, play should continue.
field_hockey: The switch to synthetic surfaces ended Indian and Pakistani domination because artificial turf was too expensive in developing countries.
field_hockey: It has also been stated that the decision to make artificial surfaces mandatory greatly favoured more affluent countries who could afford these new pitches.
field_hockey: At the start of each period, as well as after goals are scored, play is started with a pass from the centre of the field.
field_hockey: For example, two players trying to play at the ball in the air at the same time, would probably be considered a dangerous situation and it is likely that the player who first put the ball up or who was so 'carrying' it would be penalised.
field_hockey: Pan American Games – held every four years since 1967.
field_hockey: At each end is a goal 2.14 m (7 ft) high and 3.66 m (12 ft) wide, as well as lines across the field 22.90 m (25 yd) from each end-line (generally referred to as the 23-metre lines or the 25-yard lines) and in the center of the field.
field_hockey: Other international tournaments include:
field_hockey: At the Olympics, Australia and the Netherlands have both won three Olympic tournaments.
field_hockey: It could have been a team or one-on-one activity (the depiction shows two active players, and other figures who may be team-mates awaiting a face-off, or non-players waiting for their turn at play).
field_hockey: Asian Games – held every four years since 1958.
field_hockey: The field of play is 55 m long and 41.70 m wide—this is approximately half the size of a regular pitch.
field_hockey: The strength of college field hockey reflects the impact of Title IX, which mandated that colleges should fund men's and women's games programmes comparably.
field_hockey: (In previous versions of the rules, hits in the area outside the circle in open play have been permitted but lifting one direction from a free hit was prohibited).
field_hockey: Today, sticks are typically made of a combination of carbon fibre, fibreglass, and aramid, in varying proportions.
field_hockey: The ball may not travel directly into the circle from a free hit to the attack within the 23 m area without first being touched by another player or being dribbled at least 5 m by a player making a "self-pass".
field_hockey: There are many variations to overtime play that depend on the league or tournament rules.
field_hockey: England Hockey confirmed that while no changes would be made to the domestic game mid-season, the new rules would be implemented at the start of the 2019–20 season.
field_hockey: The handle makes up about the top third of the stick.
field_hockey: There are three main types of artificial hockey surface:
field_hockey: * The action above is permitted only as part of a goal saving action or to move the ball away from the possibility of a goal scoring action by opponents.
field_hockey: The English historian and biographer John Strype did not use the word hockey when he translated the proclamation in 1720, and the word hockey remains of unknown origin.
field_hockey: There are few field hockey clubs, most play taking place between high school or college sides.
field_hockey: New rules now limit this curve to under 25 mm so as to limit the power with which the ball can be flicked.
field_hockey: All sticks must be right-handed; left-handed ones are prohibited.
field_hockey: It is not an offence to lift the ball over an opponent's stick (or body on the ground), provided that it is done with consideration for the safety of the opponent and not dangerously.
field_hockey: The team consists of eleven players, usually aligned as follows: goalkeeper, right fullback, left fullback, three half-backs and five forwards who are right wing, right inner, centre forward, left inner and left wing.
field_hockey: A ball that has been lifted high so that it will fall among close opponents may be deemed to be potentially dangerous and play may be stopped for that reason.
field_hockey: They are not allowed to use their feet and legs to propel the ball, stop the ball or deflect it in any direction including over the back line.
field_hockey: To make a strike at the ball with a left-to-right swing the player must present the flat of the 'face' of the stick to the ball by 'reversing' the stick head, i.e.
field_hockey: The 2009 rulebook was officially released in early March 2009 (effective 1 May 2009), however the FIH published the major changes in February.
field_hockey: Particularly with the technical development of the drag flick.
field_hockey: Metal 'cage style' goggles favored by US high school lacrosse and permitted in high school field hockey is prohibited under FIH rules.
field_hockey: Matches are played on grass, watered turf, or artificial turf, although grass has become increasingly rare as a playing surface.
field_hockey: It is wrapped in a grip similar to that used on tennis racket.
field_hockey: Teams trade sides at halftime.
field_hockey: Although they may have particular spaces on the field which they are more comfortable and effective as players, they are responsible for occupying the space nearest them.
field_hockey: A fully equipped goalkeeper must wear a helmet, leg guards and kickers, and like all players, they must carry a stick.
field_hockey: If a coach is sent off, depending on local rules, a player may have to leave the field for the remaining length of the match.
field_hockey: Four nations have won Olympic gold medals in both men's and women's hockey: Germany, Netherlands, Australia and Great Britain.
field_hockey: Attacking players begin the play standing outside the scoring circle, except for one attacker who starts the corner by playing the ball from a mark 10 m either side of the goal (the circle has a 14.63 m radius).
field_hockey: In India, the Beighton Cup and the Aga Khan tournament commenced within ten years.
field_hockey: Following the 2018 FIH Congress it was decided that new surfaces being laid should be of a hybrid variety which require less watering.
field_hockey: When hockey positions are discussed, notions of fluidity are very common.
field_hockey: The remaining players may be substituted in any combination.
field_hockey: Argentina improved its play in the 2000s, heading IFH rankings in 2003, 2010 and 2013.
field_hockey: Unlike football, a player may receive more than one green or yellow card.
field_hockey: They may raise an aerial or overhead immediately as the second action, or any other stroke permitted by the rules of field hockey.
field_hockey: This article assumes FIH rules unless otherwise stated.
field_hockey: Goalkeepers often have a different design of stick, which are designed to maximise surface area within the legal limits of the game, though they also cannot play the ball with the round side of their stick.
field_hockey: The first is legitimate evasive action by an opponent (what constitutes legitimate evasive action is an umpiring judgment).
field_hockey: Each team can be fielded with a maximum of 11 players and will typically arrange themselves into forwards, midfielders, and defenders with players frequently moving between these lines with the flow of play.
field_hockey: The sport is known simply as hockey in many countries.
field_hockey: Other periods and interval may be agreed by both teams except as specified in regulations for particular competitions.
field_hockey: A penalty stroke is awarded when a defender commits a foul in the circle (accidental or otherwise) that prevents a probable goal or commits a deliberate foul in the circle or if defenders repeatedly run from the back line too early at a penalty corner.
field_hockey: The FIH Men's Hockey5s World Cup and FIH Women's Hockey5s World Cup are set to debut in 2024.
field_hockey: Opponents must move 5 m (5.5 yd) from the ball when a free hit is awarded.
field_hockey: The Netherlands was the predominant women's team before field hockey was added to Olympic events.
field_hockey: It has to travel 5 meters before going in.
field_hockey: A popular variant is indoor hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey.
field_hockey: When a goal is scored, play is restarted in the normal way.
field_hockey: By the early 1970s, there were 22 associations with women's sections in the FIH and 36 associations in the IFWHA.
field_hockey: Hockey has been predominantly played on the East Coast, specifically the Mid-Atlantic in states such as New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia.
field_hockey: In recent years, the NFHS rules have moved closer to FIH, but in 2011 a new rule requiring protective eyewear was introduced for the 2011 Fall season.
field_hockey: A 15 m hit is also awarded for offences committed by the attacking side within 15 m of the end of the pitch they are attacking.
field_hockey: In Ancient Greece, there is a similar image dated c.
field_hockey: In December 2018, the FIH announced rule changes that would make 15-minute quarters universal from January 2019.
field_hockey: These experimental rules apply to all free-hit situations, including sideline and corner hits.
field_hockey: Women's FIH Hockey World Cup and Men's FIH Hockey World Cup – held every four years, in between the Olympics.
field_hockey: (In some modes, including indoor, shorter periods of suspension are applied, dependent on local rules.) However it is possible to send a player off for the remainder of the match if the penalty time is longer than the time remaining in the match.
field_hockey: The governing body is the International Hockey Federation (FIH), called the Fédération Internationale de Hockey in French.
field_hockey: The rules are simpler and it is intended that the game is faster, creating more shots on goal with less play in midfield, and more attractive to spectators.
field_hockey: At the 2018 Commonwealth Games, held on the Gold Coast in Brisbane, the hockey games for both men and women were played in four 15-minute quarters.
field_hockey: These tournaments were non-competitive until 1975.
field_hockey: The penalty stroke is taken by a single attacker in the circle, against the goalkeeper, from a spot 6.4 m from goal.
field_hockey: Tactics at penalty corners to set up time for a shot with a drag flick or a hit shot at the goal involve various complex plays, including multiple passes before deflections towards the goal is made but the most common method of shooting is the direct flick or hit at the goal.
field_hockey: These positions can change and adapt throughout the course of the game depending on the attacking and defensive style of the opposition.
field_hockey: The pitch is a 91.4 m × 55 m (100.0 yd × 60.1 yd) rectangular field.
field_hockey: This player puts the ball into play by pushing or hitting the ball to the other attackers outside the circle; the ball must pass outside the circle and then put back into the circle before the attackers may make a shot at the goal from which a goal can be scored.
field_hockey: Field players may not play the ball with their feet, but if the ball accidentally hits the feet, and the player gains no benefit from the contact, then the contact is not penalised.
field_hockey: A goalkeeper must wear protective headgear at all times, except when taking a penalty stroke.
field_hockey: To increase the effectiveness of the tackle, players will often place the entire stick close to the ground horizontally, thus representing a wider barrier.
field_hockey: While hockey is still played on traditional grass fields at some local levels and lesser national divisions, it has been replaced by synthetic surfaces almost everywhere in the western world.
field_hockey: Dangerous play rules also apply to the usage of the stick when approaching the ball, making a stroke at it (replacing what was at one time referred to as the "sticks" rule, which once forbade the raising of any part of the stick above the shoulder during any play.
field_hockey: A goalie may not cross the 23 m line, the sole exception to this being if the goalkeeper is to take a penalty stroke at the other end of the field, when the clock is stopped.
field_hockey: Field hockey goals also include sideboards and a backboard, which stand 50 cm (20 in) from the ground.
field_hockey: The FIH introduced competitive tournaments in 1974, forcing the acceptance of the principle of competitive field hockey by the IFWHA in 1973.
field_hockey: The rules do not allow the person who kicked the ball to gain advantage from the kick, so the ball will automatically be passed on to the opposing team.
field_hockey: There are historical records which suggest early forms of hockey were played in Egypt and Persia c.
field_hockey: Olympic Games (women's and men's versions) – held every four years.
field_hockey: "History of Field Hockey Rules" at sitedesq.sportstg.com
