figure_skating: The close formations, and the need for the team to stay in unison, add to the difficulty of the footwork performed by the skaters in these elements.
figure_skating: Additionally, at the World, European, Four Continents, and World Junior Championships, the ISU awards small medals for segment results (short and free program) (Since 2009).
figure_skating: Originally headquartered in Minnesota, the organization now operates out of Dallas, Texas.
figure_skating: Wright (1996).
figure_skating: The top male figure skaters of this period included Sweden's Gillis Grafström and Austria's Karl Schäfer.
figure_skating: Henie turned competitive success into a lucrative professional career as a movie star and touring skater, also setting the fashion for female skaters to wear short skirts and white boots.
figure_skating: The first international ice dance competition took place as a special event at the World Championships in 1950 in London.
figure_skating: If a rink has different dimensions, a skater's jump setup and speed may be hindered as he or she adjusts.
figure_skating: Television also played a role in removing the restrictive amateur status rules that once governed the sport.
figure_skating: The inside edge of the blade is on the side closest to the skater; the outside edge of the blade is on the side farthest from the skater.
figure_skating: The ISU World Figure Skating Championships introduced pair skating in 1908.
figure_skating: ISBN 978-0-8108-6859-5.
figure_skating: Figure Skating, H.E.
figure_skating: Music selections for exhibitions are less constrained than for competitive programs.
figure_skating: A detailed description of each component is given in ISU rule 322.2.
figure_skating: It joined the World Figure Skating Championships in 1952, and became a Winter Olympic Games medal sport in 1976.
figure_skating: Eating disorders are reportedly common in figure skating and can result in the development of relative energy deficiency in sport (RED-S), formerly known as the "female athlete triad".
figure_skating: Each team is composed of a men's and women's singles skater, a pair, and an ice dance duo.
figure_skating: Only scores achieved at selected international competitions are considered; scores from national competitions and some international events are disregarded.
figure_skating: (For clockwise rotation, the skater takes off using the alternative foot and lands backwards on the outside edge of the left foot.)
figure_skating: Russian split, performed in a position that is similar to that of a straddle split
front split, performed in the position of the more traditional split, facing the direction of the front leg
figure_skating: There are two types of spins, the forward spin and the backward spin.
figure_skating: Although the use of flesh-colored fabric means the costumes are often less revealing than they may appear, there have been repeated attempts to ban clothing that gives the impression of "excessive nudity" or that is otherwise inappropriate for athletic competition.
figure_skating: Although the rules were not relaxed for singles and pairs, judges did not always penalize violations.
figure_skating: For approximately the first 50 years of figure skating as a sport, until 1947, compulsory figures made up 60 percent of the total score at most competitions around the world.
figure_skating: Some competitive skaters depend on income from shows.
figure_skating: Also, pairs and ice dancers skating as a unit have right of way over those skating separately as changing course is more difficult for a couple.
figure_skating: Soviet and Russian domination in pair skating began in the 1950s and continued throughout the rest of the 1900s.
figure_skating: Lausanne, Switzerland: International Skating Union.
figure_skating: Competitive programs are constrained to include a set number of elements.
figure_skating: A skater's final placement is determined by the total of their scores in all segments of a competition.
figure_skating: Note: The IJS previously used a GOE scale of −3 to +3, but this was changed for the 2018–19 season.
figure_skating: A well-balanced free dance program in ice dance must include dance lifts.
figure_skating: The man must also be in a full pivot position and the death spiral must be held for a minimum amount of rotation, depending on the level.
figure_skating: The marks for each program ran from 0.0 to 6.0, the latter being the highest.
figure_skating: At competitions, a technical specialist identifies the elements and assigns each one a level of difficulty, ranging from B (Basic) to Level 4 (most difficult).
figure_skating: Composition : This evaluates how the program is designed in relation to the music; how are the different elements connected; how is the available space used; how does the choreography reflect musical phrase and form?
figure_skating: The dates disappeared from the website by February 15.
figure_skating: Includes list of jumps created up to that time.
figure_skating: Typically, high-level figure skaters are professionally fitted for their boots and blades at a reputable skate shop.
figure_skating: Presentation: This evaluates how the program is performed; what does the skater express and project; what energy is created; what is the musical sensitivity and timing; for Pair, Ice Dance and Synchronized skating is the skating appropriately synchronized and showing awareness of space?
figure_skating: The placements for the two programs were then combined, with the free skate placement weighted more heavily than the short program.
figure_skating: It was the first winter sport to be included in the Olympic Games, with its introduction occurring at the 1908 Olympics in London.
figure_skating: Costumes should not be showy or exotic in nature.
figure_skating: The simplest jump is a waltz jump, which can only be done in a half-leap and is not classified as a single, double, or triple jump.
figure_skating: Lutz – similar to the flip, but the skater takes off from the backward outside edge of the left (or right) foot, launching the jump using the opposite toe pick.
figure_skating: Ice dancers are required to skate to music that has a definite beat or rhythm.
figure_skating: Beginning in the 2010–11 season, the compulsory and original dances were merged into the short dance, which itself was renamed the rhythm dance in June 2018, before the 2018–19 season.
figure_skating: The season's world ranking of a skater/couple is calculated similarly to the overall world standing but is based on the results of the ongoing season only.
figure_skating: Historical Dictionary of Figure Skating.
figure_skating: On February 17, the ISU said there were no discrepancies for Zhang Dan, Zhang Hao, and Xu Binshu between the birthdates listed on their passports, ISU registration forms and the Chinese Olympic Committee's website.
figure_skating: Since 2015 with the founding of the World Figure Sport Society and the World Figure & Fancy Skating Championships & Festival on black ice, more skaters are training and competing in figures.
figure_skating: Olympic-sized rinks make the differences in skill between skaters more apparent but they are not available for all events.
figure_skating: Spiral sequences were required in women's and pair skating prior to the 2012–13 season, but from the 2012–13 season onward, they were replaced by the choreographic sequence.
figure_skating: Figure skating is the oldest winter sport contested at the Olympics, with men's and women's single skating appearing as two of the four figure skating events at the London Games in 1908.
figure_skating: There are many different types of boots and blades to suit different disciplines and abilities.
figure_skating: Le vrai pattineur (The True Skater), Jean Garcin (1813), the first book about ice skating published in France.
figure_skating: Hip damage may occur as a result of practising jumps and throws.
figure_skating: First comprehensive history of figure skating.
figure_skating: The most visible difference from ice hockey skates is that figure skates have a set of large, jagged teeth called toe picks on the front part of the blade.
figure_skating: Skaters may lose their ISU eligibility if they perform in an unsanctioned show or competition.
figure_skating: Pair skating, along with men's and women's single skating, has been an Olympic discipline since figure skating, the oldest Winter Olympic sport, was introduced at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London.
figure_skating: In its early years, ice dance was dominated by British skaters, and until 1960 the world title was won every year by a British couple, beginning with Jean Westwood and Lawrence Demmy.
figure_skating: figure skating team and their coaches were killed in the crash of Sabena Flight 548 in Brussels, Belgium en route to the World Championships in Prague.
figure_skating: On February 15, 1961, the entire U.S.
figure_skating: This was done just in training, and everyone was tested (in the Soviet Union) before competitions."
figure_skating: Although people have been ice skating for centuries, figure skating in its current form originated in the mid-19th century.
figure_skating: The toepicks are mainly used to help launch the skater into the air for the take-off when performing jumps.
figure_skating: (For clockwise rotation, the skater takes off using the alternative foot and always lands backwards on the outside edge of the left foot.)
figure_skating: Blades are about 4.7 millimetres (3⁄16 inch) thick.
figure_skating: A panel of nine judges then each award a mark for the quality and execution of the element.
figure_skating: This may occur when partners drift too close during side-by-side camel spins.
figure_skating: This discipline resembles a group form of ice dance, with additional emphasis on precise formations of the group as a whole and complex transitions between formations.
figure_skating: and is required for the men's, women's and pair free program.
figure_skating: Costumes may cost thousands of dollars if designed by a top-level costume maker.
figure_skating: The ability to skate well backwards and forwards are considered to be equally important, as is the ability to transition well between the two.
figure_skating: They advanced between World War I and World War II; by the late 1930s, all three basic spin positions were used.
figure_skating: There are three basic spin positions: the upright spin, the sit spin, and the camel spin.
figure_skating: The coach holds the other end of the cable and lifts the skater by pulling the cable/rope.
figure_skating: According to the ISU, an ice dance team consists of one woman and one man.
figure_skating: After the judging system changed from the 6.0 system to the ISU Judging System (IJS), dance lifts became more "athletic, dramatic and exciting".
figure_skating: There is no "professional league".
figure_skating: Skaters may use professional music editors so that their music meets requirements.
figure_skating: The International Skating Union (ISU) regulates international figure skating judging and competitions.
figure_skating: In 2015, CBC Sports estimated that a Canadian pair team had expenses of about Can$100,000 per year.
figure_skating: The ISU prefers Olympic-sized rinks for figure skating competitions, particularly for major events.
figure_skating: Middletown, Connecticut: Wesleyan University Press.
figure_skating: A Treatise on Skating (1772) by the accomplished skater, Welshman Lt.
figure_skating: Thus, a skater with a lower SB but from a country with few high-level skaters may qualify to a major event while a skater with a much higher SB but from a country with more than three high-level skaters may not be sent.
figure_skating: Moves in the field is a pre-determined required sequence that demonstrated basic skating skills and edge control.
figure_skating: These figures continued to dominate the sport, although they steadily declined in importance, until the ISU voted to discontinue them as a part of competitions in 1990.
figure_skating: The Gay Games have also included skating competitions for same-gender pairs and dance couples under ISI sponsorship.
figure_skating: Inadequate ice quality may affect skaters' performances.
figure_skating: Each element receives a score according to its base value and grade of execution (GOE), resulting in a combined technical elements score (TES).
figure_skating: Contributors of the first book included leading skaters of the time, including Georg Sanders of Russia, who wrote about special figures, Phyllis Johnson and James H.
figure_skating: The ISU allowed an exception for the original dance in the 2007–08 season but not since.
figure_skating: They are sometimes referred to as amateurs, even though some earn money.
figure_skating: Clothing, however, can reflect the genre of music chosen.
figure_skating: Each element is judged first by a technical specialist who identifies the specific element and determines its base value.
figure_skating: The skater wears a vest or belt, with a cable or rope attached to it, and the cable/rope is threaded through the movable pulley on the cable above.
figure_skating: Skating was formerly judged for "technical merit" (in the free skate), "required elements" (in the short program), and "presentation" (in both programs).
figure_skating: Ice quality is judged by smoothness, friction, hardness, and brittleness.
figure_skating: Beyond the early 20th century, no skaters have been allowed to represent two countries in the same competition.
figure_skating: Beginning in 1968, the ISU progressively reduced the weighting of compulsory figures and introduced the short program in 1973.
figure_skating: Under both the 6.0 system and the ISU Judging System, the judges consider the "complete package" when evaluating performances, i.e.
figure_skating: At the 1988 World Championships, Kurt Browning of Canada landed the first quad toe loop which has remained ratified.
figure_skating: The ISU has set no limit to how long a country may hold skaters.
figure_skating: The Art of Skating, Robert Jones (1772), the earliest book about figure skating.
figure_skating: ISI competitions are open to any member that have registered their tests.
figure_skating: A maximum of ten teams can compete, with five eliminated after the short program.
figure_skating: There is significant variation in the dimensions of ice rinks.
figure_skating: A men's or women's singles skater who won the 2011 World Championships earned US$45,000, about 1.8% to 2.5% of the US$1,800,000–$2,400,000 for winners of the tennis US Open and Australian Open.
figure_skating: Landing triple jumps during the short program and the free skate became more important.
figure_skating: Blades are mounted to the sole and heel of the boot with screws.
figure_skating: Figure skaters competing at the highest levels of international competition are not "professional" skaters.
figure_skating: A second expanded edition, which included descriptions of ice dances popular in the 1880s, was published in 1892.
figure_skating: Officials discourage people from throwing flowers that are not fully wrapped because of the possibility of debris disrupting or endangering the following skaters.
figure_skating: Competition costumes vary widely, from simple designs to heavily beaded or trimmed costumes.
figure_skating: Skaters and family members may design their own costumes, sometimes with assistance from their coach or choreographer, or turn to professional designers.
figure_skating: In competition, women may wear a dress, typically with matching attached briefs.
figure_skating: They include jumps (and jump combinations), spins, step sequences, and choreographic sequences.
figure_skating: The number of rotations performed in the air determines whether the jump is a single, double, triple, or quadruple (commonly known as a "quad").
figure_skating: On practice sessions with multiple skaters on the ice, the skater whose music is playing conventionally has right of way.
figure_skating: A downgraded jump (indicated by << ) is "missing rotation of 1⁄2 revolution or more".
figure_skating: Countries that have produced a great many successful skaters include Russia and the former Soviet Union, the United States, Canada, Japan, China, France, Germany, and Italy.
figure_skating: There is an SB for the combined total score and the individual segment scores (short program/rhythm dance, free skating/free dance).
figure_skating: Men must wear trousers – they are not allowed to wear tights, although officials do not always impose a deduction for violations.
figure_skating: the best jumper is not always placed first if the judges consider the difference in jumping execution to be outweighed by another skater's speed, spins, presentation, etc.
figure_skating: from inside to outside edge.
figure_skating: They can also be the most difficult movement to perform correctly.
figure_skating: A notable exception was the pair skating partnership between Ludowika Eilers and Walter Jakobsson; their 1910–11 medals were attributed to both Germany and Finland.
figure_skating: RED-S is a syndrome of three interrelated conditions which can cause long-standing illness in girls and women and even death.
figure_skating: The best combined total for each skater or couple appears on a list of season's bests, and the list may be used to help determine participants in the following season's Grand Prix series.
figure_skating: Skating, March/April 1991.
figure_skating: Beginning in the 1997–98 season, the ISU decided to allow lyrics or words in ice dance music.
figure_skating: India had only four major indoor ice rinks as of 2011, but there were plans for ten more to be built, mostly in malls, over the following five years.
figure_skating: Triple jumps, other than the triple Axel, are commonly performed by female single skaters.
figure_skating: This curvature is referred to as the rocker of the blade.
figure_skating: For each separate component, the raw marks are then selected, trimmed, and averaged in a manner akin to determining a grade of execution.
figure_skating: Swiss skater Stéphane Lambiel said his costs were around CHF 100,000 per season.
figure_skating: ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating and Final (senior and junior): The two best results by points per season, the best four results by points over the three seasons.
figure_skating: The inside edge of the blade is on the side closest to the skater, the outside edge is on the side farthest from the skater, and a flat refers to skating on both edges at the same time, which is discouraged.
figure_skating: The first attempts to make artificial ice occurred during the 1870s in England and the U.S.
figure_skating: Jozef Sabovčík of Czechoslovakia landed a quad toe loop at the 1986 European Championships which was recognized at the event but then ruled invalid three weeks later due to a touchdown with his free foot.
figure_skating: Through the ISU guidelines skaters must perform a minimum of seven elements in their short program and twelve elements in their long program.
figure_skating: To perform a salchow or flip on the back end of a combination, a half loop (which is actually a full rotation, but lands on a back inside edge of the landing leg) may be used as a connecting jump.
figure_skating: There are two types of dance lifts: short lifts, which should be done in under seven seconds; and combination lifts, which should be done in under 12 seconds.
figure_skating: At the 2011 World Championships, Florent Amodio's long program music included words but an insufficient number of judges voted for a deduction.
figure_skating: According to writer Ellyn Kestnbaum, television helped figure skating become more celebrity oriented, with high-profile skaters being treated like entertainers and famous athletes in other sports.
figure_skating: The ISU defines dance lifts as "a movement in which one of the partners is elevated with active and/or passive assistance of the other partner to any permitted height, sustained there and set down on the ice".
figure_skating: In the 2011–12 season, different minimum scores were introduced for the Grand Prix series.
figure_skating: At the 2014 Cup of China the Japanese Yuzuru Hanyu, winner of the Olympic title a few months before, and the Chinese Han Yan, collided during the warm up of the free program.
figure_skating: From intermediate through senior-level competition, skaters generally perform two programs (the short program and the free skate), which, depending on the discipline, may include spins, jumps, moves in the field, lifts, throw jumps, death spirals, and other elements or moves.
figure_skating: Richardson (1938).
figure_skating: Off-ice training is the term for physical conditioning that takes place off the ice.
figure_skating: The highest and lowest values are discarded, and the average is calculated.
figure_skating: Many skaters, both during and after their competitive careers, also skate in ice shows, which run during the competitive season and the off-season.
figure_skating: Skating skills: This mark assesses the skater's command of the blade over the ice, including the ability to skate with power and ease.
figure_skating: Television contributed to the sport's popularity by showing skaters in the kiss and cry area after competing.
figure_skating: Compulsory figures or school figures were formerly a discipline of figure skating, and gave the sport its name.
figure_skating: The first notable indoor ice rink was made in 1876, by John Gamgee, in Chelsea along the north bank of the Thames River; it measured 24 by 40 feet.
figure_skating: The 1993 study found that three figure skaters – Dorothy Hamill, Peggy Fleming, and Scott Hamilton – were among the eight most popular athletes in the United States, of more than 800 athletes surveyed.
figure_skating: Ice Skating: A History, Nigel Brown (1959).
figure_skating: Typically after every two warm-up groups, an ice resurfacer cleans and smooths the surface of the ice sheet.
figure_skating: In 1984, more than 24 million people in Great Britain watched ice dance pair Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean earn unanimous 6.0s for presentation, the only perfect score in Olympic skating history, which was ranked the 8th greatest sporting moment in a UK poll.
figure_skating: In singles and pairs figure skating competition, competitors perform two programs: the short program, in which they complete a set of required elements consisting of jumps, spins and steps; and the free skate, also known as the long program, in which they have a slightly wider choice of elements.
figure_skating: An Ina Bauer is similar to a spread eagle performed with one knee bent and typically an arched back.
figure_skating: A heavy-duty cable is securely attached to two of the walls around the ice, with a set of pulleys riding on the cable.
figure_skating: There are two kinds of split jump:
figure_skating: According to world champion and figure skating commentator Scott Hamilton, spins are often used "as breathing points or transitions to bigger things"
Figure skating spins, along with jumps, spirals, and spread eagles were originally individual compulsory figures, sometimes special figures.
figure_skating: Although popular in Europe, the international style of skating was not widely adopted in the United States until long after Haines's death.
figure_skating: The GOE is weighted according to the base value of the element.
figure_skating: The various turns, which skaters can incorporate into step sequences, include:
figure_skating: Spins are an element in which the skater rotates, centered on a single point on the ice, while holding one or more body positions.
figure_skating: Figure Skating: Championship Techniques.
figure_skating: An under-rotated jump (indicated by < ) is "missing rotation of more than 1⁄4, but less than 1⁄2 revolution" and receives 70% of the base value.
figure_skating: The Tonya Harding scandal in 1994 increased interest in figure skating.
figure_skating: In single skating, male and female skaters compete individually.
figure_skating: The trimmed mean scores are then translated into a factored mark by multiplying by a factor that depends on the discipline, competition segment, and level.
figure_skating: Ice dancers may prefer a lower cut boot that is designed to enable more knee bend.
figure_skating: Salchow – the skater takes off backwards from the inside edge of the left (or right) foot, allowing the edge to come round, the opposite leg helps to launch the jump into the air.
figure_skating: In 1988, East German Katarina Witt became only the second woman in figure skating history, after Norwegian Sonja Henie, to defend her Olympic title successfully.
figure_skating: Previously, the GOE marks from the nine judges were processed with a computerized random selection and the average of the remaining seven was calculated.
figure_skating: For each element, a panel of judges determines the GOE, ranging between −5 and +5, according to how well the skater executes the element.
figure_skating: Pair skating is defined as "the skating of two persons in unison who perform their movements in such harmony with each other as to give the impression of genuine Pair Skating as compared with independent Single Skating".
figure_skating: At most international events, each country may send one to a maximum of three entries per discipline.
figure_skating: The ISU also states that a pairs team consists of "one Woman and one Man".
figure_skating: Skaters and couples also have personal best (PB) scores, i.e.
figure_skating: Many skaters take part-time jobs and some have tried crowdfunding.
figure_skating: Figure skating lifts are required elements in pair skating and ice dance.
figure_skating: Some rinks have a harness system installed to help skaters learn new jumps in a controlled manner.
figure_skating: Skaters also perform flying spins and combination spins.
figure_skating: Figure Skating also awards pewter medals for fourth-place finishers in national events.
figure_skating: Additionally, steps and turns can be used as transitions between elements.
figure_skating: Some national associations provide funding to some skaters if they meet certain criteria.
figure_skating: Journalists and scholars who write about figure skating also tend to focus on the same broader cultural issues.
figure_skating: During a spin, skaters use the sweet spot of the blade, which is one of two rockers to be found on a blade and is the roundest portion of the blade.
figure_skating: skating program into a period of rebuilding.
figure_skating: A couple who won the pairs or ice dance title split US$67,500.
figure_skating: For example, she missed out on a podium place at the 1971 World Championships after winning the free skate competition decisively, which produced an uproar and loud booing from the audience during the medal ceremony.
figure_skating: As of 2011, the woman's head must at some time reach her skating knee.
figure_skating: The term "professional" in skating refers not to skill level but competitive status.
figure_skating: This is done using instant replay video to verify features that distinguish different elements; e.g.
figure_skating: Injuries have also been sustained by skaters from different teams when many skaters are practising on the ice.
figure_skating: Dance lifts are delineated from pair lifts to ensure that ice dance and pair skating remain separate disciplines.
figure_skating: Single skating has required elements that skaters must perform during a competition and that make up a well-balanced skating program.
figure_skating: The non-Olympic disciplines include synchronized skating, Theater on Ice, and four skating.
figure_skating: Prize money is relatively low compared to other sports.
figure_skating: The television audience would complain when superior free programs sometimes failed to equate to gold medal victories.
figure_skating: In the late 1980s, the expenses of a top-ten women's competitor at the U.S.
figure_skating: After the war, with many European rinks in ruins, skaters from the United States and Canada began to dominate international competitions and to introduce technical innovations to the sport.
figure_skating: Matching costumes are not required in pair skating and ice dance.
figure_skating: This tragedy sent the U.S.
figure_skating: Ice dance blades have smaller toepicks than blades used for the other disciplines.
figure_skating: In the mid-1860s, Haines introduced a new style of skating, incorporating free and expressive techniques, which became known as the "international style".
figure_skating: However, PB scores are not completely comparable if achieved in different seasons because the ISU regulations and technical rules are modified before each new season.
figure_skating: As a result, it is possible for a skater who regularly scores higher to end up with a much lower world standing.
figure_skating: Ice dance has its roots in the "combined skating" developed in the 19th century by skating clubs and organizations and in recreational social skating.
figure_skating: While jumps provide the suspense, spins provide the scenery, but there is so much more to the scenery than most viewers have time or means to grasp".
figure_skating: When Shen Xue and Zhao Hongbo of China won the gold medal at the 2010 games, this was the first time since 1960 that a Russian, Soviet, or Unified Team (CIS) flagged team did not win the gold medal.
figure_skating: To show support, spectators sometimes throw a variety of items onto the ice after the end of a figure skating program, most commonly stuffed toys and flowers.
figure_skating: Toe loops and loops are commonly performed as the second or third jump in a combination because they take off from the back outside edge of the landing foot, or skating leg.
figure_skating: Toe loop – the skater takes off backwards from the outside edge of the right (or left) foot, launching the jump using the opposite toe pick.
figure_skating: Figure Skating article estimated the annual expense at US$9,000–$10,000 for pre-juvenile, US$18,000 for juvenile, US$35,000–$40,000 for novice, and said junior and senior levels were somewhat more expensive.
figure_skating: "artistic skating") in French.
figure_skating: By the 1980s, some skaters began practising quadruple jumps.
figure_skating: Gill (1863), first book about skating written in North America.
figure_skating: For example, athletes who are performing advanced multi-rotational jumps often need a stiffer boot that is higher and gives more support.
figure_skating: The step sequence consists of a combination of turns, steps, hops and edge changes.
figure_skating: In October 2004, a U.S.
figure_skating: A death spiral is a required element of pair skating.
figure_skating: The ISU is the governing body for international competitions in figure skating, including the World Championships and the figure skating events at the Winter Olympic Games.
figure_skating: Four skating has mostly disappeared, while synchronized skating, singles/pair skating and ice dance have grown.
figure_skating: Spirals performed on a "flat" are generally not considered as true spirals.
figure_skating: The International Skating Union was founded in 1892.
figure_skating: Jumps involve the skater leaping into the air and rotating rapidly to land after completing one or more rotations.
figure_skating: There are many types of jumps, identified by the way the skater takes off and lands, as well as by the number of rotations that are completed.
figure_skating: Factors affecting ice quality include temperature, water quality, and usage, with toe picks causing more deterioration.
figure_skating: For long programs, figure skaters generally search for music with different moods and tempos.
figure_skating: In 1995, in an effort to retain skaters who might otherwise have given up their eligibility to participate in lucrative professional events, the ISU introduced prize money at its major competitions, funded by revenues from selling the TV rights to those events.
figure_skating: Spirals are distinguished by the edge of the blade used (inside or outside), the direction of motion (forward or backward), and the skater's position.
figure_skating: Unlike jumps, spins were a "graceful and appreciated" part of figure skating throughout the 19th century.
figure_skating: The first clean and fully-rotated quad Axel was successfully landed by American men's skater Ilia Malinin at the 2022 CS U.S.
figure_skating: Dancers' blades also have a smaller toepick as they do not require the large toepick used for jumping in the other disciplines.
figure_skating: This mark, called the grade of execution (GOE), is an integer with a minimum value of −5 and a maximum value of +5.
figure_skating: At the 2000 World Championships in Nice, France, a pair skater who had been injured in a lift accident lay on the ice for several minutes and had to get up and leave the ice on his own before being offered medical attention.
figure_skating: In the 1920s and 1930s, figure skating was dominated by Sonja Henie of Norway.
figure_skating: The apparently effortless power and glide across the ice exhibited by elite figure skaters fundamentally derives from efficient use of the edges to generate speed.
figure_skating: A medal is generally attributed to only one country, even if a partnership is composed of skaters with different nationalities.
figure_skating: ISU Championships (World, European, Four Continents, and World Junior Championships) and Olympic Winter Games: The best result by points per season, the best two results by points over the three seasons.
figure_skating: To be eligible for junior-level events, a skater must be at least 13 but under 19 before that date (or 21 for male pair skaters and ice dancers of both genders).
figure_skating: Jumps are divided into two different categories: toe jumps and edge jumps.
figure_skating: For example, Adelina Sotnikova was born a few hours into July 1, 1996, in Moscow and consequently, was not eligible to compete at Junior Worlds until 2011 and senior Worlds until 2013.
figure_skating: Culture on Ice: Figure Skating and Cultural Meaning.
figure_skating: As television coverage of skating events became more important, the popularity of free skating increased because this part of the competition was televised and shown to the general public, whereas the compulsory figures competition was not.
figure_skating: In Italy, some skaters join police agencies' sport groups, such as the Polizia Penitenziaria's Fiamme Azzurre (Carolina Kostner, Anna Cappellini, Luca Lanotte) or Polizia di Stato's Fiamme Oro (Federica Faiella, Paolo Bacchini).
figure_skating: A new partnership starts with zero points; there is no transfer of WS points if a pair or ice dance couple split up and form a new partnership.
figure_skating: Again, these descriptions assume a counter-clockwise direction of rotation, landing backwards on the outside edge of the right foot.
figure_skating: In May 1990, the ISU voted to allow skaters intending to skate professionally to return to ISU competition, provided that they obtained their national association's permission.
figure_skating: ISBN 0-452-26209-7.
figure_skating: Ice dancers' blades are about an inch shorter in the rear than those used by skaters in other disciplines, to accommodate the intricate footwork and close partnering in dance.
figure_skating: A skater must meet the age requirement before it becomes July 1 in their place of birth.
figure_skating: Meanwhile, the Soviet Union rose to become a dominant force in the sport, especially in the disciplines of pair skating and ice dance.
figure_skating: Thus, for clarity, all jumps will be described for a skater jumping counter-clockwise.
figure_skating: Petkevich, John Misha (1988).
figure_skating: The skater will go and do the jump with very little help from their coach.
figure_skating: Before the 1990s, 12 was the minimum age for senior international competitions.
figure_skating: Soft blade covers called soakers are used to absorb condensation and protect the blades from rust when the skates are not being worn.
figure_skating: In the 2010s, American senior national medalists had expenses in the mid-five-figure range.
figure_skating: Figure skating at the Olympic Games
ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating
or any other international competitions
figure_skating: History of the National Skating Association in England, to commemorate its 100th anniversary.
figure_skating: In contrast, jump sequences are sets of jumps that may be linked by non-listed jumps or hops.
figure_skating: In the 2012 regulations, the minimum was 18 months for singles and 12 months for pairs/ice dancers from the date of their last ISU Championships (Worlds, Europeans, Four Continents, Junior Worlds) and 12 months if they competed in some other international competition.
figure_skating: Flutz and lip are the colloquial terms for a Lutz and flip jump with an edge violation.
figure_skating: However, international competitions in figure skating were interrupted by World War I.
figure_skating: 'Captain' Robert Jones (c.
figure_skating: As of 2016, three of these intended ten indoor rinks were built at Neptune Magnet Mall, Atria Millennium Mall, and Lulu Mall respectively.
figure_skating: White Boots (1951)
The Official Book of Figure Skating (1998)
The Complete Book of Figure Skating (2002)
The Science of Figure Skating (2018)
Films and series
figure_skating: Judges look at the depth, stability, and control of the skating edge, speed and ice coverage, extension, and other factors.
figure_skating: the highest scores achieved over their entire career, in terms of combined total and segment scores.
figure_skating: On February 14, 2011, questions emerged surrounding nine Chinese skaters.
figure_skating: The judges look at variety and clarity of edges, balance, body control, turns, steps, flow, power and speed.
figure_skating: Our Skating Heritage, Dennis Bird (1979).
figure_skating: Archived from the original on March 29, 2009.
figure_skating: Their footwear are figure skates.
figure_skating: The age limit was then raised to 16 years old for the 2023–24 season before increasing to 17 for the 2024–25 season, in a move to raise the age limit gradually.
figure_skating: All six are landed on one foot on the back outside edge (with counter-clockwise rotation, for single and multi-revolution jumps), but have different takeoffs, by which they may be distinguished.
figure_skating: Due to limits on entries to events (no more than three from each country), and varying numbers of high-level skaters in each country, skaters from some countries may find it more difficult to qualify to compete at major events.
figure_skating: In 2020/2021 many athletes relied on a variety of off-ice training and conditioning methods due to rinks being closed due to COVID-19.
figure_skating: They are performed by all disciplines of the sport.
figure_skating: Without changing the basic techniques used by skaters, only a limited number of figure skating moves could be performed.
figure_skating: The rule was expanded to include practice rinks in 1984.
figure_skating: Step sequences are a required element in all four Olympic disciplines.
figure_skating: Figure skating was the first winter sport contested at the Olympics; it made its Olympic debut at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London.
figure_skating: Pair skating was introduced at the 1908 World Championships, where the title was won by Anna Hübler and Heinrich Burger of Germany.
figure_skating: In 2004, in response to the judging controversy during the 2002 Winter Olympics, the ISU adopted the International Judging System (IJS), which became mandatory at all international competitions in 2006, including the 2006 Winter Olympics.
figure_skating: Several female pair skaters have suffered head/face injuries during this element, including Elena Berezhnaya, Tatiana Totmianina, Jessica Dubé, Mandy Wötzel, Galina Maniachenko (Efremenko), and Elena Riabchuk.
figure_skating: Axel – the skater takes off forwards from the outside edge of the left (or right) foot.
figure_skating: Many countries have no age requirements for domestic non-ISU competitions, thus, some skaters compete at the senior level nationally while not eligible for international competition.
figure_skating: According to the International Skating Union (ISU), "the Woman must be caught in the air at the waist by the Man prior to landing and be assisted to a smooth landing on the ice on a backward outside edge on one foot" during a twist lift.
figure_skating: If used during a spin, the toe pick will cause the skater to lose momentum, or move away from the center of the spin.
figure_skating: Prior to most jumps, a figure skater needs to skate backward to build power and speed.
figure_skating: Only men competed in the early events but in 1902 a woman entered the World Championships for the first time: British female skater Madge Syers competed in the men's competition, finishing in second place behind Sweden's Ulrich Salchow.
figure_skating: the exact foot position at take-off and landing of a jump.
figure_skating: These competitions use judging rules set by whoever organizes the competition.
figure_skating: Skating on both at the same time (which is referred to as a flat) may result in lower skating skills scores.
figure_skating: ISU publication to commemorate its 75th anniversary.
figure_skating: Stage 2 = Small medals awarded to the skaters who achieved the highest free skating or free dance placements in each discipline.
figure_skating: In a 1991 interview, three-time Olympic champion Irina Rodnina admitted that Soviet skaters used doping substances in preparation for the competitive season, stating: "Boys in pairs and singles used drugs, but this was only in August or September.
figure_skating: These marks were used to determine a preference ranking (or "ordinal") separately for each judge; the judges' preferences were then combined to determine placements for each skater in each program.
figure_skating: Skating in America: The 75th Anniversary History of the United Figure Skating Association, Benjamin T.
figure_skating: The ISU has strictly enforced the rules in recent years.
figure_skating: In June 2012, the ISU voted to allow skaters from all disciplines to choose music with words in their competitive programs beginning in the 2014–15 season.
figure_skating: While the sport has grown in East Asia, training opportunities in South Asia are limited due to a scarcity of ice rinks.
figure_skating: These include the Winter Olympics, the World Championships, the World Junior Championships, the European Championships, the Four Continents Championships, the Grand Prix series (senior and junior), and the ISU Challenger Series.
figure_skating: A loophole also existed for a few years for underage skaters who had medaled at Junior Worlds.
figure_skating: The blade profile and picks are designed to assist with spinning, jump entry, take-off, landing, and exit.
figure_skating: There are very few "qualifying" competitions, although some districts hold Gold Competitions for that season's first-place winners.
figure_skating: Ice dance blades have short tails to enable close foot work and reduce the risk of blade clash in close complex moves.
figure_skating: Competitors may sit out for much longer because they also have to obtain a release from their previous federation.
figure_skating: Since 1980, all figure skating competitions must be held in completely covered and enclosed rinks.
figure_skating: The "sweet spot" is the part of the blade on which all spins are rotated; this is usually located near the stanchion of the blade, below the ball of the foot.
figure_skating: For the 2008 World Championships, the United States was obliged to send skaters who had placed 5th and 7th at nationals because higher-placed skaters were too young, including a skater who missed the cutoff by 20 days.
figure_skating: In addition to performing in ice shows, professional skaters often compete in professional competitions, which are held throughout the world, each with its own format and rules.
figure_skating: Likewise, blades designed for free and pairs skating have a longer tail to assist landing.
figure_skating: International Skating Union.
figure_skating: During the 2005–06 season, Mao Asada of Japan was age-eligible to compete at the Grand Prix Final, where she claimed the title, but she was not permitted to compete at the Olympics.
figure_skating: skaters may lose their competitive eligibility if they take part without permission.
figure_skating: Competitive skaters generally do not wear helmets or other protective gear.
figure_skating: International senior calendar competitions: The two best results by points per season, the best four results by points over the three seasons.
figure_skating: The world standing (WS) of a skater/couple is calculated based on the results over the current and preceding two seasons.
figure_skating: Each jump receives a score according to its base value and grade of execution (GOE).
figure_skating: Professional skaters include those who have lost their ISU eligibility and those who perform only in shows.
figure_skating: On April 6, 2011, the International Olympic Committee officially confirmed the approval of a figure skating team event, which was introduced at the 2014 Winter Olympics.
figure_skating: Medals are awarded for overall results; the standard medals are gold for first place, silver for second, and bronze for third place.
figure_skating: The first of four books about figure skating, all with the same title.
figure_skating: The sweet spot is located just behind the toe pick and near the middle of the blade.
figure_skating: The Art of Skating, George Anderson (1852), about skating in England and Scotland.
figure_skating: Some skaters have tried to circumvent this by representing another country.
figure_skating: Under the IJS, points are awarded individually for each skating element, and the sum of these points is the total element score (TES).
figure_skating: The other rocker is the more general curvature of the blade when stroking or gliding.
figure_skating: Singles and pair skaters more often skate to the melody and phrasing of their music.
figure_skating: The ISU quickly banned women from competing against men, and established a separate "ladies" competition in 1906.
figure_skating: The sport is also associated with show business.
figure_skating: The Olympic disciplines are men's singles, women's singles, pair skating, and ice dance; the four individual disciplines are also combined into a team event, which was first included in the Winter Olympics in 2014.
figure_skating: Midori Ito collided with Laetitia Hubert at the 1991 World Championships, while Oksana Baiul and Tanja Szewczenko collided at the 1994 Olympics, but all went on to compete.
figure_skating: Maxwell Witham (1869), the first book to refer to the sport of "figure skating".
figure_skating: Loop (also known as a Rittberger jump) – the skater takes off backwards from the outside edge of the right (or left) foot.
figure_skating: These include the half toe loop (ballet jump), half loop, half flip, walley jump, waltz jump, inside Axel, one-foot Axel, stag jump, and split jump.
figure_skating: As a result of these variations in the technical requirements, the ISU places more weight on the season's bests, which are fully comparable within any one season.
figure_skating: The blade is also "hollow ground"; a groove on the bottom of the blade creates two distinct edges, inside and outside.
figure_skating: In some cases, skaters may feel pressure to compete through injury to be allowed to perform in a show.
figure_skating: When viewed from the side, the blade of a figure skate is not flat, but curved slightly, forming an arc of a circle with a radius of 180–220 centimetres (71–87 inches).
figure_skating: In general, accessories or props are not permitted in competition.
figure_skating: It allowed for skating year-round, as well as anywhere in the world, and prevented the cancellation of competitive events due to the lack of ice in outdoor rinks.
figure_skating: Small Medals awarded only at ISU Championships:
figure_skating: According to figure skating historian James R.
figure_skating: The highest placing individual (based on the sum of the weighted placements) was declared the winner.
figure_skating: This was still true in the mid-1800s before improvements were brought about by American skater Jackson Haines, who was considered to be the "father of modern figure skating".
figure_skating: An edge violation occurs when a skater executes a jump on the incorrect edge.
figure_skating: There are six jumps in figure skating that count as jump elements.
figure_skating: They require more strength and coordination than many other pair elements, and are usually the first or second element in a program.
figure_skating: The choreographic sequence consists of moves in the field, unlisted jumps, spinning movements, etc.
figure_skating: However, if the coaches see fit, they could use another harness usually called "the fishing pole harness." It is named that because it looks similar to a fishing pole.
figure_skating: More coaches are learning the new methods developed by World Figure Sport to teach them to skaters, as some skaters and coaches believe that figures give skaters an advantage in developing alignment, core strength, body control, and discipline.
figure_skating: This rule of costuming was created in response to Katarina Witt's costume and performance at the 1988 Winter Olympics.
figure_skating: The man performs a pivot, one toe anchored in the ice, while holding the hand of his partner, who circles him on a deep edge with her body almost parallel to the ice.
figure_skating: Despite expectations, it was several years before quads became an important part of men's skating.
figure_skating: Other movements that may be incorporated into step sequences or used as connecting elements include lunges and spread eagles.
figure_skating: Quality of execution, technique, height, speed, flow and ice coverage are considered by the judges.
figure_skating: No ordinal rankings are used to determine the final results.
figure_skating: Flip (sometimes known as a toe salchow) – the skater takes off backwards from the inside edge of the left (or right) foot and assists the take-off using the opposite toe pick.
figure_skating: The final of the six jumps to be landed cleanly as a quad in international competition is the elusive quadruple Axel.
figure_skating: Scoring System: IJS vs.
figure_skating: Following the current season's World Championships, the results from the earliest season are deleted.
figure_skating: Classic, 34 years after the first-ever quadruple jump (a quad toe loop) was landed by Canada's Kurt Browning at the World Figure Skating Championships in 1988.
figure_skating: The ISU's rules apply to international events.
figure_skating: Figure skaters compete at various levels from beginner up to the Olympic level (senior) at local, regional, sectional, national, and international competitions.
figure_skating: The first national competitions occurred in England, Canada, the U.S., and Austria during the 1930s.
figure_skating: Athletes in China sometimes face pressure to falsify their age.
figure_skating: The ISU defines a fall as a loss of control with the result that the majority of the skater's body weight is not on the blade but supported by hands, knees, or buttocks.
figure_skating: In 1988, Japan's Midori Ito became the first woman to land a triple Axel, pushing the athletic and technical level for women's programs.
figure_skating: The elimination of the compulsory dance segment provided space for the team event.
figure_skating: They can also do the jump on any pattern they choose, whereas, the other harness, they must do in a straight line.
figure_skating: Senior-level male single skaters perform mostly triple and quadruple jumps in competition.
figure_skating: This event was the forerunner of both the United States and Canadian National Championships.
figure_skating: Skaters such as Gracie Gold and Ashley Wagner have faced issues such as eating disorders and depression.
figure_skating: Skaters risk a deduction if a piece of their costume falls onto the ice surface.
figure_skating: Hydroblading refers to a deep edge performed with the body as low as possible to the ice in a near-horizontal position.
figure_skating: Twist lifts are "the most thrilling and exciting component in pair skating".
figure_skating: Johnson, Susan A.: "And Then There Were None".
figure_skating: Judges award each component a raw mark from 0 to 10 in increments of 0.25, with a mark of 5 being defined as "average".
figure_skating: The minimum age for all other senior internationals was 14 until July 2014, when it was raised to 15.
figure_skating: An official may stop a program if they deem there to be a hazard.
figure_skating: There are five groups of lifts in pair skating, categorized in order of increasing level of difficulty.
figure_skating: Hines, the development of indoor ice rinks, other than the development of the bladed skate during the 14th century and the practice of fastening boots permanently to skates in the 19th century, has had the greatest effect on figure skating.
figure_skating: The components are:
figure_skating: World champion Patrick Chan's expenses were Can$150,000.
figure_skating: Ice dance competitions formerly consisted of three phases: one or more compulsory dances; an original dance to a ballroom rhythm that was designated annually; and a free dance to music of the skaters' own choice.
figure_skating: A figure skater only needs to be able to jump in one direction, either clockwise or counter-clockwise.
figure_skating: Others may become involved with coaching younger athletes in order to fund their own training costs.
figure_skating: In rare cases, intensive training of spins may result in subtle concussions (Lucinda Ruh).
figure_skating: Hines, James R.
figure_skating: The main toe jumps are (in order of score value):
figure_skating: According to current ISU regulations, costumes in competition must be fair, non-revealing, and appropriate for both short and long programs.
figure_skating: Skates used in singles and pair skating have a set of large, jagged teeth called a toepick on the front of each blade.
figure_skating: Synchronized skating (formerly known as "precision skating") is for mixed-gender groups of between twelve and twenty figure skaters.
figure_skating: Figure skating is a sport in which individuals, pairs, or groups perform jumps, spins, and dance moves on ice.
figure_skating: 6.0 system (US Figure Skating Association)
"Understanding the International Judging System" (US Figure Skating Association)
figure_skating: Beginning in the 2010–11 season, minimum scores were introduced for the World, European, or Four Continents Championships.
figure_skating: In figure skating, it is always desirable to skate on only one edge of the blade.
figure_skating: The hollow is a groove on the bottom of the blade which creates two distinct edges, inside and outside.
figure_skating: As in gymnastics, skating has experienced controversy surrounding possible age falsification.
figure_skating: The new system is sometimes informally referred to as the Code of Points, however, the ISU has never used the term to describe their system in any of their official communications.
figure_skating: Consequently, even if a skater has a high season's best, he or she may not be sent to major events if their country has many good skaters in their discipline.
figure_skating: Only five non-Soviet or Russian teams won the Olympics and World Championships from 1965 to 2010.
figure_skating: Written by three members of the Vienna Skating Club, it described the Viennese style of skating and was the most extensive technical book about figure skating published up to that time.
figure_skating: Commenting on falls and concussions, Madison Hubbell said that "Most of the time, the worst falls are on things we kind of take for granted." Shin splints, knee injuries, and back problems are not uncommon.
figure_skating: The takeoff speed of a jump can reach up to 25 kilometers per hour.
figure_skating: The World Figure Skating Championships did not include ice dance until 1952.
figure_skating: They may also include former Olympic and World champions who have ended their competitive career, as well as skaters with little or no international competitive experience.
figure_skating: By the end of the 19th century, many major cities in Europe and North America had indoor rinks.
figure_skating: Retrieved July 19, 2024.
figure_skating: The Art of Skating, Irving Brokaw (1910).
figure_skating: Vandervell and T.
figure_skating: The total element score and the program components score are added to give the total score for a competition segment (TSS).
figure_skating: Lanham, Maryland: Scarecrow Press.
figure_skating: The first night of the women's figure skating competition in the 1994 Winter Olympics achieved higher Nielsen TV ratings than the Super Bowl three weeks earlier and, to that date, was the most watched sports television program in the US.
figure_skating: It is rare for a female skater to land a quadruple jump, and very few female single skaters have been credited with quads in competition.
figure_skating: Retrieved February 26, 2023 (S&P/ID 2022).
figure_skating: These materials may also be more flexible and help cushion jump landings and be protective of young athletes' joints.
figure_skating: Hard plastic skate guards are used when the skater must walk in his or her skates when not on the ice, to protect the blade from dirt or material on the ground that may dull the blade.
figure_skating: A spiral is an element in which the skater moves across the ice on a specific edge with the free leg held at hip level or above.
figure_skating: Championships reached nearly US$50,000 a year.
figure_skating: These are used primarily in jumping and should not be used for stroking or spins.
figure_skating: In 2004, the rule was extended to allow women to wear trousers.
figure_skating: A winner of the senior Grand Prix Final in December 2011 earned US$25,000.
figure_skating: In response, the ISU introduced rules barring skaters from international events for a certain period of time.
figure_skating: The GOE mark is then translated into another value by using the table of values in ISU rule 322.
figure_skating: The 1967 World Championships was the last event held on an outdoor rink.
figure_skating: This is used when a skater needs more help on a jump.
figure_skating: Formal proposals were put forward by the ISU to include synchronized skating in the 2022 Winter Olympics, but those efforts have been unsuccessful.
figure_skating: ISI competitions are especially popular in Asian countries that do not have established ISU member federations.
figure_skating: A few male skaters made valiant efforts to land the immensely difficult four-and-a-half revolution jump (most notably two-time Olympic Champion from Japan, Yuzuru Hanyu), but failed to land one cleanly and fully-rotated.
figure_skating: The skater will put on the harness and the coach will adjust it so it fits the skater.
figure_skating: Sequences are worth 80% of the combined value of the same jumps executed in combination.
figure_skating: In competition, skaters are allowed three minutes to make repairs to their skates.
figure_skating: Spuren auf dem Eise (Tracings on the Ice), 1881.
figure_skating: Kestnbaum, Ellyn (2003).
figure_skating: In the context of a competitive program, they include sequences that may include spirals, spread eagles, Ina Bauers, hydroblading, and similar extended edge moves, along with loops, twizzles, and different kinds of turns.
figure_skating: As The New York Times says, "While jumps look like sport, spins look more like art.
figure_skating: Olympic-sized rinks have dimensions of 30 m × 60 m (98.4 ft × 197 ft), NHL-sized rinks are 26 m × 61 m (85 ft × 200 ft), while European rinks are sometimes 30 m × 64 m (98 ft × 210 ft).
figure_skating: Choctaws are the two-foot equivalents of rockers and counters.
figure_skating: There are four varieties distinguished by the lady's edge and direction of motion.
figure_skating: 1788), is the first-known book on figure skating.
figure_skating: A critical issue was said to have been the continued failure of Janet Lynn to achieve on the world stage despite her outstanding free skate programs.
figure_skating: They are the "circular patterns which skaters trace on the ice to demonstrate skill in placing clean turns evenly on round circles".
figure_skating: Competitions were held in the "English style" of skating, which was stiff and formal and bore very little resemblance to modern figure skating.
figure_skating: In Germany, many elite skaters join the army to fund their skating.
figure_skating: This average value is then added to (or subtracted from) the base value to determine the total value for the element.
figure_skating: Dick Button, 1948 and 1952 Olympic Champion, was the first skater to perform the double Axel and triple loop jumps, as well as the flying camel spin.
figure_skating: The skater can then practice the jump with the coach assisting the completion.
figure_skating: For a set of jumps to be considered a combination, each jump must take off from the landing edge of the previous jump, with no steps, turns, or change of edge between jumps.
figure_skating: The following events receive points:
figure_skating: The program components score (PCS) awards points to holistic aspects of a program or other nuances that are not rewarded in the total element score.
figure_skating: Then the five (or four) factored marks are added to give the final PCS score.
figure_skating: Ice dance historically draws from ballroom dancing.
figure_skating: On March 20, 1914, an international figure skating championship was held in New Haven, Connecticut.
figure_skating: Body image and the need to maintain a fit body is a very common issue in figure skating, as skaters age, their bodies change and change the way they must approach the sport.
figure_skating: An unclear edge or edge violation is indicated with an 'e' and reflected in the GOE according to the severity of the problem.
figure_skating: ISU Constitution & Regulations Archived December 1, 2020, at the Wayback Machine
ISU Judging System Summary
"ISU Judging Systems".
figure_skating: In December 2011, the ISU released details of the qualifying system and the competition.
figure_skating: A spiral sequence is one or more spiral positions and edges done in sequence.
figure_skating: In the 2010 regulations, it was 24 months or more from the date of the last ISU Championship.
figure_skating: As this is the only rotating jump to take off from a forward edge, it includes an extra half rotation.
figure_skating: The Ice Skating Institute (ISI), an international ice rink trade organization, runs its own competitive and test program aimed at recreational skaters.
figure_skating: Although pair skaters are most susceptible, serious head injuries can occur in all disciplines, including ice dance.
figure_skating: Pair skating required elements include lifts, twist lifts, jumps and partner assisted jumps, pair spins, death spirals, step sequences, and choreographic sequences.
figure_skating: Edge jumps use no toe assist, and include (in order of score value):
figure_skating: Despite being visibly injured, both skaters finished the competition.
figure_skating: The Skater's Manual, Edward F.
figure_skating: All of the above descriptions assume a counter-clockwise direction of rotation, landing backwards on the outside edge of the right foot.
figure_skating: Wings on My Feet, Sonja Henie (1940).
figure_skating: Sports Illustrated.
figure_skating: They may also be thinner to assist with glide and fast changes of edge.
figure_skating: Other figure skating competitions for adults also attract participants from diverse cultures.
figure_skating: Partners have accidentally slashed each other with their skate blades.
figure_skating: Major competitions generally conclude with exhibition galas, in which the top skaters from each discipline perform non-competitive programs.
figure_skating: 1220), an Old Norse textbook and compilation of  Norse mythology that mentions ice skating, written in Iceland during the early 13th century.
figure_skating: A downgraded triple is treated as a double jump, while a downgraded double is treated as a single jump.
figure_skating: This is particularly due to the costs of ice time and coaching.
figure_skating: He designed skates that could be attached to shoes by screws through the heels (rather than using straps), and these were soon available from Riccard's Manufactory in London.
figure_skating: The elements ice dance teams must perform are the dance lift, the dance spin, the step sequence, twizzles, and choreographic elements.
figure_skating: Some skaters can change edges during a spiral, i.e.
figure_skating: Besides regular physical exercise, skaters do walk-throughs of jumps off the ice to practice sufficient rotation and height of their jumps, and to practice consistency in landing on one foot.
figure_skating: The pattern can be straight line, circular, or serpentine.
figure_skating: The basic formations include wheels, blocks, lines, circles, and intersections.
figure_skating: They may wear opaque flesh-colored leggings or tights under dresses and skirts, which may extend to cover their skates.
figure_skating: Worth only 20% by 1989, compulsory figures were eliminated from international competition in 1990.
figure_skating: The vast majority of figure skaters prefer to rotate in a counter-clockwise direction when jumping.
figure_skating: "Special Regulations & Technical Rules Single & Pair Skating and Ice Dance 2022" Archived January 6, 2019, at the Wayback Machine.
figure_skating: These standings do not necessarily reflect the capabilities of the skater(s).
figure_skating: Professionals are also employed to sharpen blades to individual requirements.
figure_skating: Well-known professional competitions in the past have included the World Professional Championships, the Challenge Of Champions, and the Canadian Professional Championships.
figure_skating: World Figure Skating Championships
World Junior Figure Skating Championships
European Figure Skating Championships
Four Continents Figure Skating Championships
Small Medals not awarded in:
figure_skating: ISBN 0-8195-6641-1.
figure_skating: "Ice Art Run") in German and patinage artistique (lit.
figure_skating: 75 Years of European and World Championships (1967).
figure_skating: New rules were introduced in 1996, requiring skaters to be at least 15 before July 1 of the preceding year to compete at the Olympics, Worlds, Europeans, or Four Continents.
figure_skating: Modern blade technology increasingly uses carbon fibre and materials other than steel to make blades lighter.
figure_skating: The first European Figure Skating Championships were held in 1891 in Hamburg, Germany (won by Oskar Uhlig), and the first World Figure Skating Championships were held in 1896 in Saint Petersburg, Russia (won by Gilbert Fuchs).
figure_skating: Johnson from England, who wrote about pair skating, and Gilbert Fuchs from Germany, who wrote an essay entitled, "Theory of Skating".
figure_skating: Skaters are generally free to select their own attire, with a few restrictions.
figure_skating: Modern Figure Skating, T.D.
figure_skating: In 1982, the ISU enacted a rule stating that a skater may perform each type of triple only once in a program, or twice if one of them is incorporated into a combination or sequence.
figure_skating: For figure skating, the ice surface temperature is normally maintained between −5.5 and −3.5 °C (22.1 and 25.7 °F), with the Olympic disciplines requiring slightly softer ice (−3.5 °C) than synchronized skating (−5.5 °C).
figure_skating: Athletes working on single or double jumps require less support and may use a less stiff boot.
figure_skating: Shows must be sanctioned by their association, i.e.
figure_skating: those who efficiently cover the entire ice surface during their programs.
figure_skating: The ISU has modified its age rules several times.
figure_skating: With these changes, the emphasis in competitive figure skating shifted to increased athleticism.
figure_skating: The elements performed by pairs teams must be "linked together by connecting steps of a different nature" and by other comparable movements and with a variety of holds and positions.
figure_skating: Competitors receive points based on their final placement at an event and the event's weight.
figure_skating: The term "figure skating" is an English-language term; the sport is called Eiskunstlauf (lit.
figure_skating: There is a risk of head injuries, particularly in pair skating as a result of falls from lifts.
figure_skating: The move came after the 2022 Winter Olympics scandal over Kamila Valieva's doping allegations and the controversy over her responsibility as a minor.
