fungus: For example, the one gene-one enzyme hypothesis was formulated by scientists using the bread mold Neurospora crassa to test their biochemical theories.
fungus: Formerly part of the Zygomycota (commonly known as 'sugar' and 'pin' molds), the Glomeromycota were elevated to phylum status in 2001 and now replace the older phylum Zygomycota.
fungus: Losses of crops due to fungal diseases (e.g., rice blast disease) or food spoilage can have a large impact on human food supplies and local economies.
fungus: Some morphological, biochemical, and genetic features are shared with other organisms, while others are unique to the fungi, clearly separating them from the other kingdoms:
Shared features:
fungus: Extending the use of the binomial system of nomenclature introduced by Carl Linnaeus in his Species plantarum (1753), the Dutch Christiaan Hendrik Persoon (1761–1836) established the first classification of mushrooms with such skill as to be considered a founder of modern mycology.
fungus: For example, the structure of the spore-bearing cells in some ascomycete species is such that the buildup of substances affecting cell volume and fluid balance enables the explosive discharge of spores into the air.
fungus: They can exert large penetrative mechanical forces; for example, many plant pathogens, including Magnaporthe grisea, form a structure called an appressorium that evolved to puncture plant tissues.
fungus: Particularly infamous are the lethal amatoxins in some Amanita mushrooms, and ergot alkaloids, which have a long history of causing serious epidemics of ergotism (St Anthony's Fire) in people consuming rye or related cereals contaminated with sclerotia of the ergot fungus, Claviceps purpurea.
fungus: Some carnivorous fungi, like Purpureocillium lilacinum, are predators of nematodes, which they capture using an array of specialized structures such as constricting rings or adhesive nets.
fungus: Although naturally occurring penicillins such as penicillin G (produced by Penicillium chrysogenum) have a relatively narrow spectrum of biological activity, a wide range of other penicillins can be produced by chemical modification of the natural penicillins.
fungus: Unique features:
fungus: As of 2019, nine major lineages have been identified: Opisthosporidia, Chytridiomycota, Neocallimastigomycota, Blastocladiomycota, Zoopagomycotina, Mucoromycota, Glomeromycota, Ascomycota, and Basidiomycota.
fungus: Many ascomycetes and basidiomycetes go through a dikaryotic stage, in which the nuclei inherited from the two parents do not combine immediately after cell fusion, but remain separate in the hyphal cells (see heterokaryosis).
fungus: Other studies (2009) estimate the arrival of fungal organisms at about 760–1060 Ma on the basis of comparisons of the rate of evolution in closely related groups.
fungus: Some of the oldest written records contain references to crop destruction that was probably caused by pathogenic fungi.
fungus: The Species Survival Commission (SSC) of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in August 2021 asked that the phrase fauna and flora be replaced by fauna, flora, and funga.
fungus: The system may assist the pathogen in surviving DNA damage arising from the host plant's oxidative defensive response to infection.
fungus: One mechanism by which C.
fungus: These organisms spend part of their life cycle as a motile zoospore, enabling them to propel themselves through water and enter their amphibian host.
fungus: Hyphae can be either septate or coenocytic.
fungus: Fungi are unusual among the eukaryotes in having a cell wall that, in addition to glucans (e.g., β-1,3-glucan) and other typical components, also contains the biopolymer chitin.
fungus: Ambrosia beetles cultivate various species of fungi in the bark of trees that they infest.
fungus: Other fungi can attack eyes, nails, hair, and especially skin, the so-called dermatophytic and keratinophilic fungi, and cause local infections such as ringworm and athlete's foot.
fungus: Lichenization is a common mode of nutrition for fungi; around 27% of known fungi—more than 19,400 species—are lichenized.
fungus: Several of these fungi are domesticated species that were bred or selected according to their capacity to ferment food without producing harmful mycotoxins (see below), which are produced by very closely related Aspergilli.
fungus: Thanks to this nutritional enrichment the larvae of the woodboring insect is able to grow and develop to adulthood.
fungus: Mycelia grown on solid agar media in laboratory petri dishes are usually referred to as colonies.
fungus: Likewise insects such as flies and other invertebrates also may disperse spores after ingesting fruiting bodies, or plant matter containing a fungus.
fungus: Prominent and important genera of filamentous ascomycetes include Aspergillus, Penicillium, Fusarium, and Claviceps.
fungus: Ellobiopsis, now in Alveolata, was considered a chytrid.
fungus: Classification based on morphological characteristics, such as the size and shape of spores or fruiting structures, has traditionally dominated fungal taxonomy.
fungus: Hyphae are specifically adapted for growth on solid surfaces, and to invade substrates and tissues.
fungus: Fungi have been shown to biomineralize uranium oxides, suggesting they may have application in the bioremediation of radioactively polluted sites.
fungus: Some well-known examples of fungi formerly in the Zygomycota include black bread mold (Rhizopus stolonifer), and Pilobolus species, capable of ejecting spores several meters through the air.
fungus: In 1836 the English naturalist Miles Joseph Berkeley's publication The English Flora of Sir James Edward Smith, Vol.
fungus: Filaments of mating "type a" ordinarily have haploid nuclei, but they can become diploid (perhaps by endoduplication or by stimulated nuclear fusion) to form blastospores.
fungus: Fungi include symbionts of plants, animals, or other fungi and also parasites.
fungus: The Chytridiomycota are commonly known as chytrids.
fungus: It denotes the scientific study of fungi.
fungus: Fungal mycelia can become visible to the naked eye, for example, on various surfaces and substrates, such as damp walls and spoiled food, where they are commonly called molds.
fungus: Another mechanism involves meiosis.
fungus: Fossilized hyphae and spores recovered from the Ordovician of Wisconsin (460 Ma) resemble modern-day Glomerales, and existed at a time when the land flora likely consisted of only non-vascular bryophyte-like plants.
fungus: Growth is their means of motility, except for spores (a few of which are flagellated), which may travel through the air or water.
fungus: It differs in many aspects from sexual reproduction in animals or plants.
fungus: Examples of statins found in fungi include mevastatin from Penicillium citrinum and lovastatin from Aspergillus terreus and the oyster mushroom.
fungus: Likewise, females of several wood wasp species (genus Sirex) inject their eggs together with spores of the wood-rotting fungus Amylostereum areolatum into the sapwood of pine trees; the growth of the fungus provides ideal nutritional conditions for the development of the wasp larvae.
fungus: These fungi form meiotic spores called ascospores, which are enclosed in a special sac-like structure called an ascus.
fungus: Sexual reproduction in basidiomycetes is similar to that of the ascomycetes.
fungus: For example, certain species eliminate or suppress the growth of harmful plant pathogens, such as insects, mites, weeds, nematodes, and other fungi that cause diseases of important crop plants.
fungus: Before the introduction of molecular methods for phylogenetic analysis, taxonomists considered fungi to be members of the plant kingdom because of similarities in lifestyle: both fungi and plants are mainly immobile, and have similarities in general morphology and growth habit.
fungus: The mechanical pressure exerted by the appressorium is generated from physiological processes that increase intracellular turgor by producing osmolytes such as glycerol.
fungus: Fungi that were placed in the Zygomycota are now being reassigned to the Glomeromycota, or the subphyla incertae sedis Mucoromycotina, Kickxellomycotina, the Zoopagomycotina and the Entomophthoromycotina.
fungus: Phylogenetic studies published in the first decade of the 21st century have helped reshape the classification within the fungi kingdom, which is divided into one subkingdom, seven phyla, and ten subphyla.
fungus: Birds have also been known to carry spores of various tree pathogenic fungi.
fungus: As in mycorrhizas, the photobiont provides sugars and other carbohydrates via photosynthesis to the fungus, while the fungus provides minerals and water to the photobiont.
fungus: The discipline of biology devoted to the study of fungi is called mycology (from the Greek μύκης, mykes 'mushroom').
fungus: In common with some plant and animal species, more than one hundred fungal species display bioluminescence.
fungus: The fungal cell wall is made of a chitin-glucan complex; while glucans are also found in plants and chitin in the exoskeleton of arthropods, fungi are the only organisms that combine these two structural molecules in their cell wall.
fungus: There is no unique generally accepted system at the higher taxonomic levels and there are frequent name changes at every level, from species upwards.
fungus: They are able to grow on inhospitable surfaces, including bare soil, rocks, tree bark, wood, shells, barnacles and leaves.
fungus: Many species produce bioactive compounds called mycotoxins, such as alkaloids and polyketides, that are toxic to animals, including humans.
fungus: Dimorphic fungi can switch between a yeast phase and a hyphal phase in response to environmental conditions.
fungus: It is estimated that a third of all fungi reproduce using more than one method of propagation; for example, reproduction may occur in two well-differentiated stages within the life cycle of a species, the teleomorph (sexual reproduction stage) and the anamorph (asexual reproduction stage).
fungus: Fungi are the principal decomposers in ecological systems.
fungus: Molecular data and ultrastructural characteristics, however, place the Blastocladiomycota as a sister clade to the Zygomycota, Glomeromycota, and Dikarya (Ascomycota and Basidiomycota).
fungus: Medically relevant genera include Mucor, Rhizomucor, and Rhizopus.
fungus: As decomposers, they play an essential role in nutrient cycling, especially as saprotrophs and symbionts, degrading organic matter to inorganic molecules, which can then re-enter anabolic metabolic pathways in plants or other organisms.
fungus: The Ascomycota, commonly known as sac fungi or ascomycetes, constitute the largest taxonomic group within the Eumycota.
fungus: The earliest mode of sexual reproduction among eukaryotes was likely homothallism, that is, self-fertile unisexual reproduction.
fungus: Both fungi and oomycetes grow as filamentous hyphal cells.
fungus: The evolutionary adaptation from an aquatic to a terrestrial lifestyle necessitated a diversification of ecological strategies for obtaining nutrients, including parasitism, saprobism, and the development of mutualistic relationships such as mycorrhiza and lichenization.
fungus: Members of the group that have been isolated lack the chitinous cell wall that is characteristic of fungi.
fungus: In mycology, species have historically been distinguished by a variety of methods and concepts.
fungus: The fungi are now considered a separate kingdom, distinct from both plants and animals, from which they appear to have diverged around one billion years ago (around the start of the Neoproterozoic Era).
fungus: In agriculture, fungi may be useful if they actively compete for nutrients and space with pathogenic microorganisms such as bacteria or other fungi via the competitive exclusion principle, or if they are parasites of these pathogens.
fungus: Fungi are traditionally considered heterotrophs, organisms that rely solely on carbon fixed by other organisms for metabolism.
fungus: The vast majority of filamentous fungi grow in a polar fashion (extending in one direction) by elongation at the tip (apex) of the hypha.
fungus: Fungi have evolved a high degree of metabolic versatility that allows them to use a diverse range of organic substrates for growth, including simple compounds such as nitrate, ammonia, acetate, or ethanol.
fungus: The oldest fossilized mycelium to be identified from its molecular composition is between 715 and 810 million years old.
fungus: Most fungi have both a haploid and a diploid stage in their life cycles.
fungus: The major fungal groupings have initially been delineated based on the morphology of their sexual structures and spores; for example, the spore-containing structures, asci and basidia, can be used in the identification of ascomycetes and basidiomycetes, respectively.
fungus: In other species, both asexual and sexual spores or sporangiospores are often actively dispersed by forcible ejection from their reproductive structures.
fungus: Deuteromycota (alternatively known as Deuteromycetes, conidial fungi, or mitosporic fungi) is not an accepted taxonomic clade and is now taken to mean simply fungi that lack a known sexual stage.
fungus: Mushrooms with a history of such use include Agaricus subrufescens, Ganoderma lucidum, and Ophiocordyceps sinensis.
fungus: The bacteria were also included in fungi in some classifications, as the group Schizomycetes.
fungus: These include aspergillosis, candidiasis, coccidioidomycosis, cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis, mycetomas, and paracoccidioidomycosis.
fungus: The term mycota is often used for this purpose, but many authors use it as a synonym of fungi.
fungus: Molds used in cheese production are non-toxic and are thus safe for human consumption; however, mycotoxins (e.g., aflatoxins, roquefortine C, patulin, or others) may accumulate because of growth of other fungi during cheese ripening or storage.
fungus: Some individual fungal colonies can reach extraordinary dimensions and ages as in the case of a clonal colony of Armillaria solidipes, which extends over an area of more than 900 ha (3.5 square miles), with an estimated age of nearly 9,000 years.
fungus: Fungi growing in dead wood are essential for xylophagous insects (e.g.
fungus: This form of "radiotrophic" growth has been described for only a few species, the effects on growth rates are small, and the underlying biophysical and biochemical processes are not well known.
fungus: Many fungi produce biologically active compounds, several of which are toxic to animals or plants and are therefore called mycotoxins.
fungus: Agaricus bisporus, sold as button mushrooms when small or Portobello mushrooms when larger, is the most widely cultivated species in the West, used in salads, soups, and many other dishes.
fungus: They reproduce by both sexual and asexual means, and like basal plant groups (such as ferns and mosses) produce spores.
fungus: Prototaxites, which was possibly a fungus or lichen, would have been the tallest organism of the late Silurian and early Devonian.
fungus: These structures aid reproduction by efficiently dispersing spores or spore-containing propagules.
fungus: Over 90% of plants are dependent on Mycorrhizal symbiosis between plants and fungi and this process also enhances photosynthesis in plants, increasing carbon uptake from the atmosphere and helping to stop climate change.
fungus: maydis can respond to the oxidative burst with an oxidative stress response, regulated by the gene YAP1.
fungus: Alternatively, Rozella can be classified as a basal fungal group.
fungus: Of particular relevance to humans are mycotoxins produced by molds causing food spoilage, and poisonous mushrooms (see above).
fungus: Buller, Curtis G.
fungus: Many fungal secondary metabolites (or derivatives) are used medically, as described under Human use below.
fungus: This in turn is derived from the Greek word sphongos (σφόγγος 'sponge'), which refers to the macroscopic structures and morphology of mushrooms and molds; the root is also used in other languages, such as the German Schwamm 'sponge' and Schimmel 'mold'.
fungus: Such mycorrhizal communities are called "common mycorrhizal networks".
fungus: neoformans survives the hostile macrophage environment is by up-regulating the expression of genes involved in the oxidative stress response.
fungus: Fungi can also act as mycoparasites or antagonists of other fungi, such as Hypomyces chrysospermus, which grows on bolete mushrooms.
fungus: These and other differences place fungi in a single group of related organisms, named the Eumycota (true fungi or Eumycetes), that share a common ancestor (i.e.
fungus: In May 2019, scientists reported the discovery of a fossilized fungus, named Ourasphaira giraldae, in the Canadian Arctic, that may have grown on land a billion years ago, well before plants were living on land.
fungus: The taxonomy of fungi is in a state of constant flux, especially due to research based on DNA comparisons.
fungus: Many species produce metabolites that are major sources of pharmacologically active drugs.
fungus: In fungi formerly classified as Zygomycota, haploid hyphae of two individuals fuse, forming a gametangium, a specialized cell structure that becomes a fertile gamete-producing cell.
fungus: Unlike true fungi, the cell walls of oomycetes contain cellulose and lack chitin.
fungus: Fungi are threatened by fungicides, pesticides, pollution, deforestation and more.
fungus: With animals: Fungi lack chloroplasts and are heterotrophic organisms and so require preformed organic compounds as energy sources.
fungus: The Latin adjectival form of "mycology" (mycologicæ) appeared as early as 1796 in a book on the subject by Christiaan Hendrik Persoon.
fungus: The apothecium—a specialized structure important in sexual reproduction in the ascomycetes—is a cup-shaped fruit body that is often macroscopic and holds the hymenium, a layer of tissue containing the spore-bearing cells.
fungus: Another strategy is seen in the stinkhorns, a group of fungi with lively colors and putrid odor that attract insects to disperse their spores.
fungus: Asci are embedded in an ascocarp, or fruiting body.
fungus: Although fungi are opisthokonts—a grouping of evolutionarily related organisms broadly characterized by a single posterior flagellum—all phyla except for the chytrids and blastocladiomycetes have lost their posterior flagella.
fungus: Some fungal species inhabit the tissues inside roots, stems, and leaves, in which case they are called endophytes.
fungus: Mycotoxins are secondary metabolites (or natural products), and research has established the existence of biochemical pathways solely for the purpose of producing mycotoxins and other natural products in fungi.
fungus: Mycelial fragmentation and vegetative spores maintain clonal populations adapted to a specific niche, and allow more rapid dispersal than sexual reproduction.
fungus: When the zygospore germinates, it undergoes meiosis, generating new haploid hyphae, which may then form asexual sporangiospores.
fungus: However, little is known of the true biodiversity of the fungus kingdom, which has been estimated at 2.2 million to 3.8 million species.
fungus: As it is difficult to accurately identify a safe mushroom without proper training and knowledge, it is often advised to assume that a wild mushroom is poisonous and not to consume it.
fungus: They are often available fresh in grocery stores and markets, including straw mushrooms (Volvariella volvacea), oyster mushrooms (Pleurotus spp.), shiitakes (Lentinula edodes), and enokitake (Flammulina spp.).
fungus: The bird's nest fungi use the force of falling water drops to liberate the spores from cup-shaped fruiting bodies.
fungus: Other important basidiomycetes include the maize pathogen Ustilago maydis, human commensal species of the genus Malassezia, and the opportunistic human pathogen, Cryptococcus neoformans.
fungus: Some species grow as unicellular yeasts that do not form hyphae and reproduce by budding or fission.
fungus: Hyphochytrids have both chitin and cellulose.
fungus: The oldest fossil with microscopic features resembling modern-day basidiomycetes is Palaeoancistrus, found permineralized with a fern from the Pennsylvanian.
fungus: Many fungi are parasites on plants, animals (including humans), and other fungi.
fungus: Mushroom farming and mushroom gathering are large industries in many countries.
fungus: Examples include the blue color in cheeses such as Stilton or Roquefort, which are made by inoculation with Penicillium roqueforti.
fungus: The hydnoid fungi (tooth fungi) produce spores on pendant, tooth-like or spine-like projections.
fungus: The genus Blastocystis, now in Stramenopiles, was originally classified as a yeast.
fungus: A characteristic that places fungus in a different kingdom from plants, bacteria, and some protists is having chitin in their cell walls.
fungus: The study of the historical uses and sociological impact of fungi is known as ethnomycology.
fungus: Researchers study compression fossils by dissolving the surrounding matrix with acid and then using light or scanning electron microscopy to examine surface details.
fungus: Certain fungi, in particular white-rot fungi, can degrade insecticides, herbicides, pentachlorophenol, creosote, coal tars, and heavy fuels and turn them into carbon dioxide, water, and basic elements.
fungus: neoformans can survive inside macrophages, which appears to be the basis for latency, disseminated disease, and resistance to antifungal agents.
fungus: Other forms of fungal growth include intercalary extension (longitudinal expansion of hyphal compartments that are below the apex) as in the case of some endophytic fungi, or growth by volume expansion during the development of mushroom stipes and other large organs.
fungus: These alkaloids protect grass plants from herbivory, but several endophyte alkaloids can poison grazing animals, such as cattle and sheep.
fungus: The biological species concept discriminates species based on their ability to mate.
fungus: Plants and some other organisms have an additional terpene biosynthesis pathway in their chloroplasts, a structure that fungi and animals do not have.
fungus: At least one species of stingless bee has a relationship with a fungus in the genus Monascus, where the larvae consume and depend on fungus transferred from old to new nests.
fungus: Other antibiotics produced by fungi include: ciclosporin, commonly used as an immunosuppressant during transplant surgery; and fusidic acid, used to help control infection from methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bacteria.
fungus: At about this same time, approximately 400 Ma, the Ascomycota and Basidiomycota diverged, and all modern classes of fungi were present by the Late Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian, 318.1–299 Ma).
fungus: A rapid defense reaction after pathogen attack is the oxidative burst where the plant produces reactive oxygen species at the site of the attempted invasion.
fungus: Although fungal spores were first observed by Giambattista della Porta in 1588, the seminal work in the development of mycology is considered to be the publication of Pier Antonio Micheli's 1729 work Nova plantarum genera.
fungus: The frequency and relative importance of parasexual events is unclear and may be lower than other sexual processes.
fungus: Efforts among researchers are now underway to establish and encourage usage of a unified and more consistent nomenclature.
fungus: also refers to mycology as the study of fungi.
fungus: Other notable early contributors to mycology in the 17th–19th and early 20th centuries include Miles Joseph Berkeley, August Carl Joseph Corda, Anton de Bary, the brothers Louis René and Charles Tulasne, Arthur H.
fungus: Many Actinomycetales (Actinomycetota), a group with many filamentous bacteria, were also long believed to be fungi.
fungus: This phylum includes morels, a few mushrooms and truffles, unicellular yeasts (e.g., of the genera Saccharomyces, Kluyveromyces, Pichia, and Candida), and many filamentous fungi living as saprotrophs, parasites, and mutualistic symbionts (e.g.
fungus: These growth processes lead to the development of a mycelium, an interconnected network of hyphae.
fungus: The Neocallimastigomycota were earlier placed in the phylum Chytridiomycota.
fungus: Infecting cultivars of pasture or forage grasses with Epichloë endophytes is one approach being used in grass breeding programs; the fungal strains are selected for producing only alkaloids that increase resistance to herbivores such as insects, while being non-toxic to livestock.
fungus: Such fungi are severely threatened by herbicides, fungicides, fertlizers, deforestation, pollution and covering soil with impermeable materials like concrete.
fungus: In the year 2019, 1,882 new species of fungi were described, and it was estimated that more than 90% of fungi remain unknown.
fungus: salamandrivorans, parasites that have been responsible for a worldwide decline in amphibian populations.
fungus: The functions of both symbiotic organisms are so closely intertwined that they function almost as a single organism; in most cases the resulting organism differs greatly from the individual components.
fungus: The application of molecular tools, such as DNA sequencing and phylogenetic analysis, to study diversity has greatly enhanced the resolution and added robustness to estimates of genetic diversity within various taxonomic groups.
fungus: Some fungi alter the behavior of their animal hosts in ways that spread their spores more effectively (also called "active host transmission").
fungus: Coenocytic hyphae are in essence multinucleate supercells.
fungus: Shoyu koji mold (Aspergillus oryzae) is an essential ingredient in brewing shoyu (soy sauce) and sake, and the preparation of miso, while Rhizopus species are used for making tempeh.
fungus: Studies suggest that the ancestral ecological state of the Ascomycota was saprobism, and that independent lichenization events have occurred multiple times.
fungus: They have a characteristic range of soluble carbohydrates and storage compounds, including sugar alcohols (e.g., mannitol), disaccharides, (e.g., trehalose), and polysaccharides (e.g., glycogen, which is also found in animals).
fungus: Like plants, fungi often grow in soil and, in the case of mushrooms, form conspicuous fruit bodies, which sometimes resemble plants such as mosses.
fungus: Adaptations such as these are complemented by hydrolytic enzymes secreted into the environment to digest large organic molecules—such as polysaccharides, proteins, and lipids—into smaller molecules that may then be absorbed as nutrients.
fungus: In Europe and Japan, polysaccharide-K (brand name Krestin), a chemical derived from Trametes versicolor, is an approved adjuvant for cancer therapy.
fungus: The diploid nuclei of blastospores can undergo meiosis, including recombination, to form haploid basidiospores that can be dispersed.
fungus: The Rozellida clade, including the "ex-chytrid" Rozella, is a genetically disparate group known mostly from environmental DNA sequences that is a sister group to fungi.
fungus: Factors that likely contribute to the under-representation of fungal species among fossils include the nature of fungal fruiting bodies, which are soft, fleshy, and easily degradable tissues, and the microscopic dimensions of most fungal structures, which therefore are not readily evident.
fungus: coenophiala, produce alkaloids that are toxic to a range of invertebrate and vertebrate herbivores.
fungus: Homothallic fungi include species with an Aspergillus-like asexual stage (anamorphs) occurring in numerous different genera, several species of the ascomycete genus Cochliobolus, and the ascomycete Pneumocystis jirovecii.
fungus: These interactions can be mutualistic or antagonistic in nature, or in the case of commensal fungi are of no apparent benefit or detriment to the host.
fungus: Until relatively recent (2012) changes to the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi and plants, fungal species could also have multiple scientific names depending on their life cycle and mode (sexual or asexual) of reproduction.
fungus: The majority of C.
fungus: Earlier, it had been presumed that the fungi colonized the land during the Cambrian (542–488.3 Ma), also long before land plants.
fungus: Fly agaric mushrooms (Amanita muscaria) also cause occasional non-fatal poisonings, mostly as a result of ingestion for its hallucinogenic properties.
fungus: Species may also be distinguished by their biochemical and physiological characteristics, such as their ability to metabolize certain biochemicals, or their reaction to chemical tests.
fungus: Since the 1940s, fungi have been used for the production of antibiotics, and, more recently, various enzymes produced by fungi are used industrially and in detergents.
fungus: Nonetheless, studies of the oomycetes and myxomycetes are still often included in mycology textbooks and primary research literature.
fungus: This is because mycorrhizal fungi that directly participate in photosynthesis create a network that holds the soil together at the same time.
fungus: The most commonly known basidiocarps are mushrooms, but they may also take other forms (see Morphology section).
fungus: Similar to mycorrhiza, endophytic colonization by fungi may benefit both symbionts; for example, endophytes of grasses impart to their host increased resistance to herbivores and other environmental stresses and receive food and shelter from the plant in return.
fungus: maydis from the host defense, and is necessary for the pathogen's virulence.
fungus: Of these, only about 148,000 have been described, with over 8,000 species known to be detrimental to plants and at least 300 that can be pathogenic to humans.
fungus: After dispersal, the ascospores may germinate and form a new haploid mycelium.
fungus: Most grow in terrestrial environments, though several species live partly or solely in aquatic habitats, such as the chytrid fungi Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis and B.
fungus: The latter genus the death cap (A.
fungus: The nucleariids may be the next sister group to the eumycete clade, and as such could be included in an expanded fungal kingdom.
fungus: Micheli not only observed spores but also showed that, under the proper conditions, they could be induced into growing into the same species of fungi from which they originated.
fungus: The fruit bodies of the basidiomycetes (basidiocarps) and some ascomycetes can sometimes grow very large, and many are well known as mushrooms.
fungus: The symbiotic association between the Glomeromycota and plants is ancient, with evidence dating to 400 million years ago.
fungus: For example, genetic modification of yeast species—which are easy to grow at fast rates in large fermentation vessels—has opened up ways of pharmaceutical production that are potentially more efficient than production by the original source organisms.
fungus: Sexual reproduction with meiosis has been directly observed in all fungal phyla except Glomeromycota (although genetic analysis suggests meiosis occurs in Glomeromycota as well).
fungus: Each tip contains a set of aggregated vesicles—cellular structures consisting of proteins, lipids, and other organic molecules—called the Spitzenkörper.
fungus: Sixty-five million years ago, immediately after the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event that famously killed off most dinosaurs, there was a dramatic increase in evidence of fungi; apparently the death of most plant and animal species led to a huge fungal bloom like "a massive compost heap".
fungus: Quorn, a meat alternative, is made from Fusarium venenatum.
fungus: Fungal fossils do not become common and uncontroversial until the early Devonian (416–359.2 Ma), when they occur abundantly in the Rhynie chert, mostly as Zygomycota and Chytridiomycota.
fungus: Most fungi lack an efficient system for the long-distance transport of water and nutrients, such as the xylem and phloem in many plants.
fungus: They deliver nutrients needed by xylophages to nutritionally scarce dead wood.
fungus: Fungal spores are also a cause of allergies, and fungi from different taxonomic groups can evoke allergic reactions.
fungus: Furthermore, a person with immunodeficiency is more susceptible to disease by genera such as Aspergillus, Candida, Cryptoccocus, Histoplasma, and Pneumocystis.
fungus: The cells of most fungi grow as tubular, elongated, and thread-like (filamentous) structures called hyphae, which may contain multiple nuclei and extend by growing at their tips.
fungus: Lichens occur in every ecosystem on all continents, play a key role in soil formation and the initiation of biological succession, and are prominent in some extreme environments, including polar, alpine, and semiarid desert regions.
fungus: phalloides), the most common cause of deadly mushroom poisoning.
fungus: Fungi can also become the target of infection by mycoviruses.
fungus: The gametangium develops into a zygospore, a thick-walled spore formed by the union of gametes.
fungus: The word mycology is derived from the Greek mykes (μύκης 'mushroom') and logos (λόγος 'discourse').
fungus: Modern penicillins are semisynthetic compounds, obtained initially from fermentation cultures, but then structurally altered for specific desirable properties.
fungus: These colonies can exhibit growth shapes and colors (due to spores or pigmentation) that can be used as diagnostic features in the identification of species or groups.
fungus: neoformans are mating "type a".
fungus: Cooke (1875), Fungi: Their Nature and Uses, (2009)
---- (1872), Rust, Smut, Mildew, & Mould: An Introduction to the Study of Microscopic Fungi, (2020)
fungus: Members of the Glomeromycota form arbuscular mycorrhizae, a form of mutualist symbiosis wherein fungal hyphae invade plant root cells and both species benefit from the resulting increased supply of nutrients.
fungus: Often recovered from a permineralized plant or animal host, these samples are typically studied by making thin-section preparations that can be examined with light microscopy or transmission electron microscopy.
fungus: Fungi employ two mating systems: heterothallic species allow mating only between individuals of the opposite mating type, whereas homothallic species can mate, and sexually reproduce, with any other individual or itself.
fungus: In the 20th and 21st centuries, advances in biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, biotechnology, DNA sequencing, and phylogenetic analysis have provided new insights into fungal relationships and biodiversity, and have challenged traditional morphology-based groupings in fungal taxonomy.
fungus: In some species the pigment melanin may play a role in extracting energy from ionizing radiation, such as gamma radiation.
fungus: These fungi are distributed worldwide.
fungus: As eukaryotes, fungi possess a biosynthetic pathway for producing terpenes that uses mevalonic acid and pyrophosphate as chemical building blocks.
fungus: This has generated strong interest in practical applications that use these fungi in the biological control of these agricultural pests.
fungus: They may become noticeable when fruiting, either as mushrooms or as molds.
fungus: Many fungi that are plant pathogens, such as Magnaporthe oryzae, can switch from being biotrophic (parasitic on living plants) to being necrotrophic (feeding on the dead tissues of plants they have killed).
fungus: Phylogenetic analysis has demonstrated that the Microsporidia, unicellular parasites of animals and protists, are fairly recent and highly derived endobiotic fungi (living within the tissue of another species).
fungus: Fungi are also used as biological pesticides to control weeds, plant diseases, and insect pests.
fungus: These sporangiospores allow the fungus to rapidly disperse and germinate into new genetically identical haploid fungal mycelia.
fungus: Fungi, like animals, are heterotrophs: they acquire their nutrition by absorbing dissolved organic molecules, typically by secreting digestive enzymes into their environment.
fungus: A basidiocarp is formed in which club-like structures known as basidia generate haploid basidiospores after karyogamy and meiosis.
fungus: Septate hyphae are divided into compartments separated by cross walls (internal cell walls, called septa, that are formed at right angles to the cell wall giving the hypha its shape), with each compartment containing one or more nuclei; coenocytic hyphae are not compartmentalized.
fungus: A specialized anatomical structure, called a clamp connection, is formed at each hyphal septum.
fungus: The Eccrinales and Amoebidiales are opisthokont protists, previously thought to be zygomycete fungi.
fungus: These current phylogenetic analyses often overturn classifications based on older and sometimes less discriminative methods based on morphological features and biological species concepts obtained from experimental matings.
fungus: Most fungi grow as hyphae, which are cylindrical, thread-like structures 2–10 μm in diameter and up to several centimeters in length.
fungus: The filamentous fungus Purpureocillium lilacinum uses a similar structure to penetrate the eggs of nematodes.
fungus: They are often used in gourmet dishes.
fungus: They lack mitochondria but contain hydrogenosomes of mitochondrial origin.
fungus: As in the related chytrids, neocallimastigomycetes form zoospores that are posteriorly uniflagellate or polyflagellate.
fungus: Fungi can break down manufactured materials and buildings, and become significant pathogens of humans and other animals.
fungus: This process might bear similarity to CO2 fixation via visible light, but instead uses ionizing radiation as a source of energy.
fungus: In particular, Amanita sect.
fungus: Fungi have long been used as a direct source of human food, in the form of mushrooms and truffles; as a leavening agent for bread; and in the fermentation of various food products, such as wine, beer, and soy sauce.
fungus: Examples include Ophiocordyceps unilateralis and possibly the extinct Allocordyceps.
fungus: maydis has a well-established recombinational DNA repair system which acts during mitosis and meiosis.
fungus: Cryptococcus neoformans is an encapsulated yeast that can live in both plants and animals.
fungus: A special case of mycorrhiza is myco-heterotrophy, whereby the plant parasitizes the fungus, obtaining all of its nutrients from its fungal symbiont.
fungus: Abundant worldwide, most fungi are inconspicuous because of the small size of their structures, and their cryptic lifestyles in soil or on dead matter.
fungus: Although often inconspicuous, fungi occur in every environment on Earth and play very important roles in most ecosystems.
fungus: With euglenoids and bacteria: Higher fungi, euglenoids, and some bacteria produce the amino acid L-lysine in specific biosynthesis steps, called the α-aminoadipate pathway.
fungus: Examples that have been used as biological insecticides are Beauveria bassiana, Metarhizium spp., Hirsutella spp., Paecilomyces (Isaria) spp., and Lecanicillium lecanii.
fungus: Fungi have membrane-bound cytoplasmic organelles such as mitochondria, sterol-containing membranes, and ribosomes of the 80S type.
fungus: Compatible haploid hyphae fuse to produce a dikaryotic mycelium.
fungus: Differences also exist between fungal groups and can be used to discriminate species by morphological differences in sexual structures and reproductive strategies.
fungus: To overcome this limitation, some fungi, such as Armillaria, form rhizomorphs, which resemble and perform functions similar to the roots of plants.
fungus: Fungi have a worldwide distribution, and grow in a wide range of habitats, including extreme environments such as deserts or areas with high salt concentrations or ionizing radiation, as well as in deep sea sediments.
fungus: The field of phytopathology, the study of plant diseases, is closely related because many plant pathogens are fungi.
fungus: Members of the Basidiomycota, commonly known as the club fungi or basidiomycetes, produce meiospores called basidiospores on club-like stalks called basidia.
fungus: Fungi perform an essential role in the decomposition of organic matter and have fundamental roles in nutrient cycling and exchange in the environment.
fungus: This fungal group is distinct from the structurally similar myxomycetes (slime molds) and oomycetes (water molds).
fungus: All known Glomeromycota species reproduce asexually.
fungus: However, the dikaryotic phase is more extensive in the basidiomycetes, often also present in the vegetatively growing mycelium.
fungus: Some fungi spores are dispersed via animals, for instance truffles and other underground fungi do not actively liberate their spores but instead, most species produce strong-smelling fruitbodies attractive to voles and other small mammals which eat them and disperse the spores in their feces.
fungus: Fungal fossils are difficult to distinguish from those of other microbes, and are most easily identified when they resemble extant fungi.
fungus: Many other mushroom species are harvested from the wild for personal consumption or commercial sale.
fungus: The pressure generated by the appressorium, directed against the plant epidermis, can exceed 8 megapascals (1,200 psi).
fungus: Widespread use of antibiotics for the treatment of bacterial diseases, such as tuberculosis, syphilis, leprosy, and others began in the early 20th century and continues to date.
fungus: The blastocladiomycetes are saprotrophs, feeding on decomposing organic matter, and they are parasites of all eukaryotic groups.
fungus: The following year, 2,905 new species were described—the highest annual record of new fungus names.
fungus: Yeast species of the genus Saccharomyces are also used to produce alcoholic beverages through fermentation.
fungus: Many Asian fungi are commercially grown and have increased in popularity in the West.
fungus: The slime molds were studied also as protozoans, leading to an ambiregnal, duplicated taxonomy.
fungus: This ejection ensures exit of the spores from the reproductive structures as well as traveling through the air over long distances.
fungus: Fungi produce several secondary metabolites that are similar or identical in structure to those made by plants.
fungus: The human use of fungi for food preparation or preservation and other purposes is extensive and has a long history.
fungus: The shiitake mushroom is a source of lentinan, a clinical drug approved for use in cancer treatments in several countries, including Japan.
fungus: Ever since the pioneering 18th and 19th century taxonomical works of Carl Linnaeus, Christiaan Hendrik Persoon, and Elias Magnus Fries, fungi have been classified according to their morphology (e.g., characteristics such as spore color or microscopic features) or physiology.
fungus: Members of this small phylum are anaerobic organisms, living in the digestive system of larger herbivorous mammals and in other terrestrial and aquatic environments enriched in cellulose (e.g., domestic waste landfill sites).
fungus: There appears to be electrical communication between fungi in word-like components according to spiking characteristics.
fungus: Unlike their close relatives, the chytrids, most of which exhibit zygotic meiosis, the blastocladiomycetes undergo sporic meiosis.
fungus: Furthermore, U.
fungus: Because the products of meiosis are retained within the sac-like ascus, ascomycetes have been used for elucidating principles of genetics and heredity (e.g., Neurospora crassa).
fungus: Tricholoma equestre was considered edible until it was implicated in serious poisonings causing rhabdomyolysis.
fungus: Web sites such as Index Fungorum, Fungal Names, and MycoBank are officially recognized nomenclatural repositories and list current names of fungal species (with cross-references to older synonyms).
fungus: Molecular phylogenies, inferred from rRNA sequences in ribosomes, suggest that the Chytrids are a basal group divergent from the other fungal phyla, consisting of four major clades with suggestive evidence for paraphyly or possibly polyphyly.
fungus: Psilocybin from fungi is investigated for therapeutic use and appears to cause global increases in brain network integration.
fungus: During cell division, the formation of the hook ensures proper distribution of the newly divided nuclei into the apical and basal hyphal compartments.
fungus: These organisms are classified in the biological kingdom Fungi.
fungus: Many species have developed specialized hyphal structures for nutrient uptake from living hosts; examples include haustoria in plant-parasitic species of most fungal phyla, and arbuscules of several mycorrhizal fungi, which penetrate into the host cells to consume nutrients.
fungus: Lloyd, and Pier Andrea Saccardo.
fungus: This same principle is applied to fungi-feeding parasites, including Asterotremella albida, which feeds on the fruit bodies of other fungi both while they are living and after they are dead.
fungus: neoformans usually infects the lungs, where it is phagocytosed by alveolar macrophages.
fungus: Analyses using molecular phylogenetics support a monophyletic origin of fungi.
fungus: Mycotoxins may provide fitness benefits in terms of physiological adaptation, competition with other microbes and fungi, and protection from consumption (fungivory).
fungus: The lengths of the branches are not proportional to evolutionary distances.
fungus: Two amber-preserved specimens provide evidence that the earliest known mushroom-forming fungi (the extinct species Archaeomarasmius leggetti) appeared during the late Cretaceous, 90 Ma.
fungus: The earliest fossils possessing features typical of fungi date to the Paleoproterozoic era, some 2,400 million years ago (Ma); these multicellular benthic organisms had filamentous structures capable of anastomosis.
fungus: The number of new fungi species discovered yearly has increased from 1,000 to 1,500 per year about 10 years ago, to about 2,000 with a peak of more than 2,500 species in 2016.
fungus: The major phyla (sometimes called divisions) of fungi have been classified mainly on the basis of characteristics of their sexual reproductive structures.
fungus: With plants: Fungi have a cell wall and vacuoles.
fungus: An ascus (plural asci) is then formed, in which karyogamy (nuclear fusion) occurs.
fungus: The larvae of many families of fungicolous flies, particularly those within the superfamily Sciaroidea such as the Mycetophilidae and some Keroplatidae feed on fungal fruiting bodies and sterile mycorrhizae.
fungus: This process requires a gene called DMC1, which is a conserved homologue of genes recA in bacteria and RAD51 in eukaryotes, that mediates homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis and repair of DNA double-strand breaks.
fungus: Lichens are a symbiotic relationship between fungi and photosynthetic algae or cyanobacteria.
fungus: Milkcap mushrooms, morels, chanterelles, truffles, black trumpets, and porcini mushrooms (Boletus edulis) (also known as king boletes) demand a high price on the market.
fungus: A fungus does not perform photosynthesis.
fungus: The fungus kingdom encompasses an enormous diversity of taxa with varied ecologies, life cycle strategies, and morphologies ranging from unicellular aquatic chytrids to large mushrooms.
fungus: It is known to play a role in intraspecific hybridization and is likely required for hybridization between species, which has been associated with major events in fungal evolution.
fungus: The growth of fungi as hyphae on or in solid substrates or as single cells in aquatic environments is adapted for the efficient extraction of nutrients, because these growth forms have high surface area to volume ratios.
fungus: A fungus (pl.: fungi or funguses) is any member of the group of eukaryotic organisms that includes yeasts, molds, as well as mushrooms.
fungus: Rare in the fossil record are the Homobasidiomycetes (a taxon roughly equivalent to the mushroom-producing species of the Agaricomycetes).
fungus: Some fungi can cause serious diseases in humans, several of which may be fatal if untreated.
fungus: Environmental conditions trigger genetically determined developmental states that lead to the creation of specialized structures for sexual or asexual reproduction.
fungus: The fungal part of the relationship is composed mostly of various species of ascomycetes and a few basidiomycetes.
fungus: In ascomycetes, dikaryotic hyphae of the hymenium (the spore-bearing tissue layer) form a characteristic hook (crozier) at the hyphal septum.
fungus: Mating experiments between fungal isolates may identify species on the basis of biological species concepts.
fungus: Septa have pores that allow cytoplasm, organelles, and sometimes nuclei to pass through; an example is the dolipore septum in fungi of the phylum Basidiomycota.
fungus: Certain types of cheeses require inoculation of milk curds with fungal species that impart a unique flavor and texture to the cheese.
fungus: Phalloideae contains dozens of amatoxin-containing species, including A.
fungus: Several groups of ants cultivate fungi in the order Chaetothyriales for several purposes: as a food source, as a structural component of their nests, and as a part of an ant/plant symbiosis in the domatia (tiny chambers in plants that house arthropods).
fungus: Such species often produce dry or hydrophobic spores that do not absorb water and are readily scattered by raindrops, for example.
fungus: Because of the capacity of this group to produce an enormous range of natural products with antimicrobial or other biological activities, many species have long been used or are being developed for industrial production of antibiotics, vitamins, and anti-cancer and cholesterol-lowering drugs.
fungus: Many of the plant and fungal enzymes that make these compounds differ from each other in sequence and other characteristics, which indicates separate origins and convergent evolution of these enzymes in the fungi and plants.
fungus: phalloides as well as the destroying angels.
fungus: A 2017 estimate suggests there may be between 2.2 and 3.8 million species.
fungus: Other examples of aquatic fungi include those living in hydrothermal areas of the ocean.
fungus: With other eukaryotes: Fungal cells contain membrane-bound nuclei with chromosomes that contain DNA with noncoding regions called introns and coding regions called exons.
fungus: The fungal partners may also mediate plant-to-plant transfer of carbohydrates and other nutrients.
fungus: For much of the Paleozoic Era (542–251 Ma), the fungi appear to have been aquatic and consisted of organisms similar to the extant chytrids in having flagellum-bearing spores.
fungus: About 300 species of fungi and fungus-like organisms, belonging to 13 classes and 113 genera, are used as biocontrol agents against plant fungal diseases.
fungus: Slime molds lack a cell wall during the assimilative phase (except labyrinthulids, which have a wall of scales), and take in nutrients by ingestion (phagocytosis, except labyrinthulids) rather than absorption (osmotrophy, as fungi, labyrinthulids, oomycetes and hyphochytrids).
fungus: Hyphae grow at their tips (apices); new hyphae are typically formed by emergence of new tips along existing hyphae by a process called branching, or occasionally growing hyphal tips fork, giving rise to two parallel-growing hyphae.
fungus: neoformans can undergo a meiosis, monokaryotic fruiting, that promotes recombinational repair in the oxidative, DNA damaging environment of the host macrophage, and the repair capability may contribute to its virulence.
fungus: Tree of Life web project: Fungi Archived 25 January 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Encyclopedia of Life: Fungus
FUNGI in BoDD – Botanical Dermatology Database
fungus: Hyphae also sometimes fuse when they come into contact, a process called hyphal fusion (or anastomosis).
fungus: The mycorrhizal symbiosis is ancient, dating back to at least 400 million years.
fungus: Along with bacteria, fungi are the major decomposers in most terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, and therefore play a critical role in biogeochemical cycles and in many food webs.
fungus: Ancient peoples have used fungi as food sources—often unknowingly—for millennia, in the preparation of leavened bread and fermented juices.
fungus: Fungi produce compounds that inhibit viruses and cancer cells.
fungus: The photosynthetic partner in the relationship is referred to in lichen terminology as a "photobiont".
fungus: A group of all the fungi present in a particular region is known as mycobiota (plural noun, no singular).
fungus: The fruiting structures of a few species contain psychotropic compounds and are consumed recreationally or in traditional spiritual ceremonies.
fungus: The response protects U.
fungus: As of 2020, around 148,000 species of fungi have been described by taxonomists, but the global biodiversity of the fungus kingdom is not fully understood.
fungus: they form a monophyletic group), an interpretation that is also strongly supported by molecular phylogenetics.
fungus: Advances in molecular genetics have opened the way for DNA analysis to be incorporated into taxonomy, which has sometimes challenged the historical groupings based on morphology and other traits.
fungus: Neither water molds nor slime molds are closely related to the true fungi, and, therefore, taxonomists no longer group them in the kingdom Fungi.
fungus: Mycelial fragmentation occurs when a fungal mycelium separates into pieces, and each component grows into a separate mycelium.
fungus: Historically, fly agaric was used by different peoples in Europe and Asia and its present usage for religious or shamanic purposes is reported from some ethnic groups such as the Koryak people of northeastern Siberia.
fungus: Previously considered to be "primitive" protozoa, they are now thought to be either a basal branch of the Fungi, or a sister group–each other's closest evolutionary relative.
fungus: Genera with mushrooms containing deadly toxins include, not are not limited to Conocybe, Galerina, Lepiota and infamously, Amanita.
fungus: However, the relative proportion of fungal spores relative to spores formed by algal species is difficult to assess, the spike did not appear worldwide, and in many places it did not fall on the Permian–Triassic boundary.
fungus: Entomopathogenic fungi can be used as biopesticides, as they actively kill insects.
fungus: Many ascomycete species have only been observed undergoing asexual reproduction (called anamorphic species), but analysis of molecular data has often been able to identify their closest teleomorphs in the Ascomycota.
fungus: Fungi-based industries are sometimes considered to be a major part of a growing bioeconomy, with applications under research and development including use for textiles, meat substitution and general fungal biotechnology.
fungus: Termites on the African savannah are also known to cultivate fungi, and yeasts of the genera Candida and Lachancea inhabit the gut of a wide range of insects, including neuropterans, beetles, and cockroaches; it is not known whether these fungi benefit their hosts.
fungus: Specialized mechanical and physiological mechanisms, as well as spore surface structures (such as hydrophobins), enable efficient spore ejection.
fungus: Chytrids and their close relatives Neocallimastigomycota and Blastocladiomycota (below) are the only fungi with active motility, producing zoospores that are capable of active movement through aqueous phases with a single flagellum, leading early taxonomists to classify them as protists.
fungus: Other fungi, like the puffballs, rely on alternative mechanisms for spore release, such as external mechanical forces.
fungus: As with the structurally similar hook in the ascomycetes, the clamp connection in the basidiomycetes is required for controlled transfer of nuclei during cell division, to maintain the dikaryotic stage with two genetically different nuclei in each hyphal compartment.
fungus: It often increases the plant's uptake of inorganic compounds, such as nitrate and phosphate from soils having low concentrations of these key plant nutrients.
fungus: Most common mushrooms belong to this group, as well as rust and smut fungi, which are major pathogens of grains.
fungus: The Fungi imperfecti ('fungi lacking the perfect or sexual stage') or Deuteromycota comprise all the species that lack an observable sexual cycle.
fungus: Pyritized fungus-like microfossils preserved in the basal Ediacaran Doushantuo Formation (~635 Ma) have been reported in South China.
fungus: In the past, mycology was regarded as a branch of botany, although it is now known that fungi are genetically more closely related to animals than to plants.
fungus: The accompanying cladogram depicts the major fungal taxa and their relationship to opisthokont and unikont organisms, based on the work of Philippe Silar, "The Mycota: A Comprehensive Treatise on Fungi as Experimental Systems for Basic and Applied Research" and Tedersoo et al.
fungus: Some can survive the intense UV and cosmic radiation encountered during space travel.
fungus: Later, Elias Magnus Fries (1794–1878) further elaborated the classification of fungi, using spore color and microscopic characteristics, methods still used by taxonomists today.
fungus: In contrast, similar-looking organisms, such as filamentous green algae, grow by repeated cell division within a chain of cells.
fungus: Specific metabolites, such as polysaccharide-K, ergotamine, and β-lactam antibiotics, are routinely used in clinical medicine.
fungus: Certain mushrooms are used as supposed therapeutics in folk medicine practices, such as traditional Chinese medicine.
fungus: Fungal reproduction is complex, reflecting the differences in lifestyles and genetic makeup within this diverse kingdom of organisms.
fungus: In sexually reproducing fungi, compatible individuals may combine by fusing their hyphae together into an interconnected network; this process, anastomosis, is required for the initiation of the sexual cycle.
fungus: Plants have evolved efficient defense systems against pathogenic microbes such as U.
fungus: Methods have been developed for genetic engineering of fungi, enabling metabolic engineering of fungal species.
fungus: Lichens formed a component of the early terrestrial ecosystems, and the estimated age of the oldest terrestrial lichen fossil is 415 Ma; this date roughly corresponds to the age of the oldest known sporocarp fossil, a Paleopyrenomycites species found in the Rhynie Chert.
fungus: Many mushroom species are poisonous to humans and cause a range of reactions including slight digestive problems, allergic reactions, hallucinations, severe organ failure, and death.
fungus: The word funga has been proposed as a less ambiguous term morphologically similar to fauna and flora.
fungus: Although inaccurate, the common misconception that fungi are plants persists among the general public due to their historical classification, as well as several similarities.
fungus: Unlike those of plants and oomycetes, fungal cell walls do not contain cellulose.
fungus: This process is referred to as monokaryotic fruiting.
fungus: The word appeared in English as early as 1824 in a book by Robert Kaye Greville.
fungus: The Blastocladiomycota were previously considered a taxonomic clade within the Chytridiomycota.
fungus: woodboring beetles).
fungus: Karyogamy in the asci is followed immediately by meiosis and the production of ascospores.
fungus: Similar to mosses and algae, fungi typically have haploid nuclei.
fungus: The false morel (Gyromitra esculenta) is occasionally considered a delicacy when cooked, yet can be highly toxic when eaten raw.
fungus: Other groups now in Opisthokonta (e.g., Corallochytrium, Ichthyosporea) were also at given time classified as fungi.
fungus: Endophytic fungi of grasses of the genus Epichloë, such as E.
