gobi_desert: "Return to China's Northern Frontier".
gobi_desert: This is mostly due to the climate conditions before the growing season, which influence the rate of evapotranspiration and subsequent plant growth.
gobi_desert: The Three-North Shelter Forest Program (or "Green Great Wall") is a Chinese government tree-planting project begun in 1978 and set to continue through 2050.
gobi_desert: In many places in the flat, dry valleys or depressions farther south, beds of loess, 5 to 6 m (16 to 20 ft) thick, are exposed.
gobi_desert: They are greatly intersected by gullies or dry watercourses.
gobi_desert: The floors of the depressions lie mostly between 900 and 1,000 m (3,000 and 3,300 ft) above sea-level.
gobi_desert: It includes the Yin Mountains and many low-lying areas with salt pans and small ponds.
gobi_desert: It consists of the desert basins and low mountains lying between the Gobi Altai range on the north, the Helan Mountains to the southeast, and the Qilian Mountains and northeastern portion of the Tibetan Plateau on the southwest.
gobi_desert: Between Ulaanbaatar (48°00′N 107°00′E) and the small lake of Iren-dubasu-nor (43°45′N 111°50′E), the surface is greatly eroded.
gobi_desert: The Geographical Journal.
gobi_desert: The name of the desert comes from the Mongolian word   Gov', (Говь) -dryland-, used to refer to all of the waterless regions in the Mongolian Plateau; the cognate Chinese term gēbì (戈壁) is used to refer to rocky, semi-deserts such as the Gobi itself rather than sandy deserts.
gobi_desert: The Alashan Plateau semi-desert lies to the east, and the Emin Valley steppe to the west, on the China-Kazakhstan border.
gobi_desert: An average of about 194 mm (7.6 in) of rain falls annually in the Gobi.
gobi_desert: As they proceed south, they transcend and transpose, sweeping back on east and west respectively, with Lake Bosten in between.
gobi_desert: Some are even unique, including black-tailed gazelles, marbled polecats, wild Bactrian camels, Mongolian wild ass and sandplovers.
gobi_desert: The vegetation is confined to a few varieties of bushes and a dozen kinds of grasses and herbs, the most conspicuous being saxaul (Haloxylon ammondendron) and Agriophyllum gobicum.
gobi_desert: Archeologists and paleontologists have done excavations in the Nemegt Basin in the northwestern part of the Gobi Desert (in Mongolia), which is noted for its fossil treasures, including early mammals, dinosaur eggs, and prehistoric stone implements, some 100,000 years old.
gobi_desert: It is bounded by the Mongolian-Manchurian grassland to the north, the Yellow River Plain to the southeast, and the Alashan Plateau semi-desert to the southwest and west.
gobi_desert: Westerners call this terrain the Dzungarian desert.
gobi_desert: Water is scarce, with no streams, no lakes, no wells, and precipitation falls seldom.
gobi_desert: The Yulduz valley or valley of the Haidag-gol (43°N 83°E–43°N 86°E) is a mini desert enclosed by two prominent members of the Shanashen Trahen Osh mountain range, namely the chucis and the kracenard pine rallies, running perpendicular and far from one another.
gobi_desert: But the tablelands, built up of the horizontal red deposits of the Han-gai (Obruchev's Gobi formation) which are characteristic of the southern parts of eastern Mongolia, are absent here or occur only in one locality, near the Shara-muren river.
gobi_desert: The slopes of the plateaus are more or less steep and are sometimes penetrated by "bays" of the lowlands.
gobi_desert: It divides the northern one-third of Sinkiang from the southern two-thirds.
gobi_desert: The Ordos Desert, which covers the northeastern portion of the Ordos Plateau (also near the great northern loop of the Yellow River) is part of this ecoregion within the middle basin of three great depressions into which Potanin divides the Gobi.
gobi_desert: The area is vulnerable to trampling by livestock and off-road vehicles (effects from human intervention are greater in the eastern Gobi Desert, where rainfall is heavier and may sustain livestock).
gobi_desert: The desert is widest in the west, along the line joining the Lake Bosten and the Lop Nor (87°–89° east).
gobi_desert: During this time people began using oases.
gobi_desert: Dzungarian Basin semi-desert, includes the desert basin lying between the Altai mountains on the north and the Tian Shan range on the south.
gobi_desert: Here the rivers begin to straggle and fan out, and form great marshes with dense reed-beds.
gobi_desert: These shrubs included gray sparrow's saltwort (Salsola passerina), gray sagebrush, and low grasses such as needle grass and bridlegrass.
gobi_desert: Around this time there was meadow steppe vegetation around lakes.
gobi_desert: Besides being quite far north, it is also located on a plateau roughly 910–1,520 m (2,990–4,990 ft) above sea level, which contributes to its low temperatures.
gobi_desert: The Gobi Desert is the source of many important fossil finds, including the first dinosaur eggs, twenty-six of which, averaging 23 centimetres (9 in) in length, were uncovered in 1923.
gobi_desert: As the border-range of the Hyangan is approached, the country steadily rises up to 1,370 m (4,490 ft) and then to 1,630 m (5,350 ft).
gobi_desert: Although on the whole a level country with a general altitude of 1,000 to 1,500 m (3,300 to 4,900 ft), this section, like most other parts of the Gobi, is crowned by a network of hills and broken ranges of at least 300 m in elevation.
gobi_desert: In contrast, in Alxa, Inner Mongolia, it rises as high as 37 °C (99 °F) in July.
gobi_desert: These two ranges mark the northern and the southern edges respectively of a great swelling, which extends eastward for nearly twenty degrees of longitude.
gobi_desert: People used the oases extensively.
gobi_desert: They are occasionally visited by snow leopards, Gobi bears, and wolves.
gobi_desert: The Gobi Desert is a large, cold desert and grassland region in southern Mongolia and North China.
gobi_desert: China has tried various plans to slow the expansion of the desert, which have met with some success.
gobi_desert: Gobi mutton is the most aromatic in the world.
gobi_desert: Broad flat depressions and basins are separated by groups of flat-topped mountains of relatively low elevation 150 to 180 m (490 to 590 ft), through which archaic rocks crop out as crags and isolated rugged masses.
gobi_desert: doi:10.2307/1796091.
gobi_desert: JSTOR 1796091.
gobi_desert: Gobi Lakes Valley desert steppe, ecoregion lies north of Alashan Plateau semi-desert, between the Gobi Altai range to the south and the Khangai Mountains to the north.
gobi_desert: These vast expanses are absolutely waterless, nor do any oases relieve the unbroken stretches of yellow sand, which alternate with equally vast areas of saline clay or, nearer the foot of the mountains, with barren shingle.
gobi_desert: Through all the central parts, until the bordering mountains are reached, trees and shrubs are utterly absent.
gobi_desert: On its northern side, the Chol-tagh descends steeply, and its foot is fringed by a string of deep depressions, ranging from Lukchun (130 m (427 ft) below sea level) to Hami (850 m (2,789 ft) above sea-level).
gobi_desert: However, in some areas desertification has been slowed or reversed.
gobi_desert: However, the climate of the Gobi is one of great extremes, with rapid changes of temperature of as much as 35 °C (63 °F) in 24-hour spans.
gobi_desert: Average winter minimums are a frigid −21 °C (−6 °F), while summertime maximums are a warm 27 °C (81 °F).
gobi_desert: The surface is extremely diversified, although there are no great differences in vertical elevation.
gobi_desert: Among the most important are those from Kalgan (at the Great Wall) to Ulaanbaatar (960 km (597 mi)); from Jiuquan (in Gansu) to Hami 670 km (416 mi); from Hami to Beijing (2,000 km (1,243 mi)); from Hohhot to Hami and Barkul; and from Lanzhou (in Gansu) to Hami.
gobi_desert: The expansion of the Gobi is attributed mostly to human activities, locally driven by deforestation, overgrazing, and depletion of water resources, as well as to climate change.
gobi_desert: These winds may cause the Gobi to reach −40 °C (−40 °F) in winter to 45 °C (113 °F) in summer.
gobi_desert: The altitudes are higher, those of the lowlands ranging from 1,000 to 1,700 m (3,300 to 5,600 ft), and those of the ranges from 200 to 500 m (660 to 1,640 ft) higher, though in a few cases they reach altitudes of 2,400 m (7,900 ft).
gobi_desert: Both here and for 320 km (199 mi) south of Ulaanbaatar, streams are frequent and grass grows more or less abundantly.
gobi_desert: Bronze Age herder burials have been found in the Gobi desert, as well as Karasuk bronze knives, and Mongolian deer stones.
gobi_desert: Clay and sand are the predominant formations; the watercourses, especially in the north, being frequently excavated 2 to 3 m (6 ft 7 in to 9 ft 10 in) deep.
gobi_desert: Where such elevations exist, there is generally found, on the east side of the transverse ridge, a cauldron-shaped depression, which some time or other has been the bottom of a former lake, but is now nearly a dry salt-basin.
gobi_desert: Dust storms increased in frequency between 1996 and 2016, causing further damage to China's agriculture economy.
gobi_desert: Its area is approximately 1,295,000 square kilometres (500,000 sq mi).
gobi_desert: The herbage comprises a high proportion of woody, fragrant plants.
gobi_desert: Several large nature reserves have been established in the Gobi, including Gobi Gurvansaikhan National Park, Great Gobi A and Great Gobi B Strictly Protected Area.
gobi_desert: The taana wild onion Allium polyrrhizum is the main browse eaten by many herd animals, and Mongolians claim that this is essential in producing the proper, hazelnut-like notes of camel airag (fermented milk).
gobi_desert: In many cases these latitudinal valleys are barred transversely by ridges or spurs, generally elevations en masse of the bottom of the valley.
gobi_desert: Here small lakes frequently fill the depressions, though the water in them is generally salty or brackish.
gobi_desert: The hydrography of the Ghashiun-Gobi and the Kuruk-tagh is determined by the aforementioned arrangements of the latitudinal valleys.
gobi_desert: Although the southeast monsoons reach the southeast parts of the Gobi, the area throughout this region is generally characterized by extreme dryness, especially during the winter, when the Siberian anticyclone is at its strongest.
gobi_desert: The prevailing winds blow from the west and northwest, and the pall of dust overhangs the country as in the Taklamakan and the desert of Lop.
gobi_desert: To the south of the Kuruk-tagh lie the desert of Lop Nur, the Kum-tagh desert, and the valley of the Bulunzir-gol.
gobi_desert: In southern Mongolia, the temperature has been recorded as low as −32.8 °C (−27.0 °F).
gobi_desert: Some geographers and ecologists prefer to regard the western area of the Gobi region (as defined above): the basin of the Tarim in Xinjiang and the desert basin of Lop Nor and Hami (Kumul), as forming a separate and independent desert, called the Taklamakan Desert.
gobi_desert: It is some 130 to 160 km (81 to 99 mi) across from north to south, and is traversed by a number of minor parallel ranges, ridges and chains of hills.
gobi_desert: It was characterized by:
gobi_desert: Oasis III is equivalent to the Bronze Age from 5000 cal BP to 3000 cal BP.
gobi_desert: Eastern Gobi desert steppe, the easternmost of the Gobi ecoregions, covering an area of 281,800 km2 (108,804 sq mi).
gobi_desert: the sandgrouse, lark, stonechat, sparrow, crane, Mongolian ground jay (Podoces hendersoni), horned lark (Eremophila alpestris), and crested lark (Galerida cristata).
gobi_desert: This range he considers to belong to the Choltagh system, whereas Sven Hedin would assign it to the Kuruk-tagh.
gobi_desert: The name of Gobi means desert in Mongolian.
gobi_desert: The goal of the program is to reverse desertification by planting aspen and other fast-growing trees on some 36.5 million hectares across some 551 counties in 12 provinces of northern China.
gobi_desert: The Chinese also call it a desert, but the Mongols call it a 'gobi'—that is, a land of thin herbage, more suitable for camels than for cows, but capable also, if herds are kept small and moved frequently, of sustaining horses, sheep, and goats.
gobi_desert: The Gobi Desert as a whole was known only very imperfectly to outsiders, as information was confined to observations by individual travelers engaging in their respective itineraries across the desert.
gobi_desert: The vegetation, which is confined to these same areas, is of the scantiest and is mainly confined to bushes of saxaul (Haloxylon), anabasis, reeds (kamish), tamarisks, poplars, and Ephedra.
gobi_desert: Map, from "China the Beautiful" (archived 13 May 2008)
gobi_desert: micro blades
small milling stones
small tools
plain, low fired, pottery with high organic content.
gobi_desert: The surface configuration is in fact markedly similar to that which occurs in the inter-mount latitudinal valleys of the Kunlun Mountains.
gobi_desert: micro blades
milling stones
chipped macro tools
adzes
axes
high quality cryptocrystallines
honeycomb imprinted, corded, string paddled, low and high fired pottery with a sand and gravel mixture.
gobi_desert: Despite the harsh conditions, these deserts and the surrounding regions sustain many animal species.
gobi_desert: Much of the Gobi is not sandy, instead resembling exposed bare rock.
gobi_desert: The vast desert is crisscrossed by several trade routes, some of which have been in use for thousands of years.
gobi_desert: The others include prickly convolvulus, field wormwood (Artemisia campestris), acacia, Inula ammophila, Sophora flavescens, Convolvulus ammanii, Peganum and Astragalus species, but all dwarfed, deformed and starved.
gobi_desert: For hundreds of kilometers, nothing can be seen but bare sands; in some places, they continue so far without a break that the Mongols call them Tengger (i.e.
gobi_desert: Due to livestock grazing, the amount of shrubs in the desert has decreased.
gobi_desert: Most of the precipitation falls during the summer.
gobi_desert: It is characterized by:
gobi_desert: 139 (2): 233–242.
gobi_desert: In Mongolia, grasslands have been degraded by goats, which are raised by nomadic herders as a source of cashmere wool.
gobi_desert: In the west, between Lake Bosten and the Tarim, it consists of two, possibly of three, principal ranges, which, although broken in continuity, run generally parallel to one another, and embrace between them numerous minor chains of heights.
gobi_desert: Starting around 8000 cal BP there was a warm wet phase in the Gobi desert.By 7500 cal BP lake levels in the Western Gobi reached their peak.
gobi_desert: Alashan Plateau semi-desert, lies west and southwest of the Eastern Gobi desert steppe.
gobi_desert: The Taklamakan Desert ecoregion includes the Desert of Lop.
gobi_desert: Oasis I is equivalent to the Mesolithic from 13500 cal BP to 8000 cal BP.
gobi_desert: Most of the principal streams, instead of flowing straight down these valleys, cross them diagonally and only turn west after they have cut their way through one or more of the transverse barrier ranges.
gobi_desert: Further south, between Iren-dutiasu-nor and the Yellow River, comes a region of broad tablelands alternating with flat plains, the latter ranging at altitudes of 1000–1100 m and the former at 1,070 to 1,200 m (3,510 to 3,940 ft).
gobi_desert: On the northern side, rivers formed from the snow and glaciers of the high mountains break through barren foothill ranges and flow out into an immense, hollow plain.
gobi_desert: Hence, the icy dust and snowstorms of spring and early summer plus early January (winter).
gobi_desert: Tian Shan range, separates the Dzungarian Basin semi-desert from the Taklamakan Desert, which is a low, sandy desert basin surrounded by the high mountain ranges of the Tibetan Plateau to the south and the Pamirs to the west.
gobi_desert: The Kuruk-tagh is the greatly disintegrated, denuded and wasted relic of a mountain range which used to be of incomparably greater magnitude.
gobi_desert: Due to the increasing aridity between 3500 cal BP and 3000 cal BP there was a decline in human habitation in the Gobi desert.
gobi_desert: The region was inhabited mostly by Mongols, Uyghurs, and Kazakhs.
gobi_desert: A relatively large area on the east side of the Greater Khingan range, between the upper waters of the Songhua (Sungari) and the upper waters of the Liao-ho, is reckoned to belong to the Gobi by conventional usage.
gobi_desert: Between 5000 cal BP and 4500 cal BP there was a period of  desertification.
gobi_desert: It is the sixth-largest desert in the world.
gobi_desert: The elevations do not form continuous chains, but make up a congeries of short ridges and groups rising from a common base and intersected by a labyrinth of ravines, gullies, glens, and basins.
gobi_desert: It includes the northern portion of China's Xinjiang province and extends into the southeastern corner of Mongolia.
gobi_desert: The southern and central parts of the Gobi Desert have variable plant growth due to this monsoon activity.
gobi_desert: The more northern areas of the Gobi are very cold and dry, making it unable to support much plant growth; this cold and dry weather is attributed to Siberian-Mongolian high pressure cells.
gobi_desert: The most common vegetation in the Gobi desert is shrubs adapted to drought.
gobi_desert: Lizards are especially well-adapted to the climate of the Gobi Desert, with approximately 30 species distributed across its southern Mongolian border.
gobi_desert: Lisa Janz has proposed a system of nomenclature for early Gobi desert habitation.
gobi_desert: The northern and eastern boundaries between desert and grassland are constantly changing.
gobi_desert: To the highest range on the great swelling Grigory Grum-Grshimailo gives the name of Tuge-tau, its altitude being 2,700 m (8,858 ft) above the level of the sea and some 1,200 m (3,937 ft) above the crown of the swelling itself.
gobi_desert: The Kuruk-tagh is throughout a relatively low, but almost completely barren range, being entirely destitute of animal life, save for hares, antelopes and wild camels, which frequent its few small, widely scattered oases.
gobi_desert: In Ulaan Nuur there may have been shrubby riparian woodlands.
gobi_desert: The Chol-tagh, which reaches an average altitude of 1,800 m (5,900 ft), is absolutely sterile, and its northern foot rests upon a narrow belt of barren sand, which leads down to the depressions mentioned above.
gobi_desert: To this great swelling, which arches up between the two border-ranges of the Chol-tagh and Kuruk-tagh, the Mongols give the name of Ghashuun-Gobi or "Salt Desert".
gobi_desert: Oasis II is equivalent to the Neolithic from 8000 cal BP to 5000 cal BP.
gobi_desert: The Gobi is overall a cold desert, with frost and occasionally snow occurring on its dunes.
gobi_desert: Characteristic of the flora are wild garlic, Kalidium gracile, wormwood, saxaul, Nitraria schoberi, Caragana, Ephedra, saltwort and the grass Lasiagrostis splendens.
gobi_desert: It extends from the Inner Mongolian Plateau in China northward into Mongolia.
gobi_desert: The fauna consists of little but antelope, wolf, fox, hare, hedgehog, marten, numerous lizards and a few birds, e.g.
gobi_desert: Prehistoric petroglyphs have been found in Southern Mongolia in 1997.
gobi_desert: Down its middle runs a broad stony valley, 40 to 80 km (25 to 50 mi) wide, at an elevation of 900 to 1,370 m (2,950 to 4,490 ft).
gobi_desert: They are Oasis I, Oasis II, Oasis III.
gobi_desert: Among the European and American explorers who contributed to the understanding of the Gobi, the most important were the following:
gobi_desert: Additional moisture reaches parts of the Gobi in winter as snow is blown by the wind from the Siberian Steppes.
