gulf_war: The Iraqi 52nd Armored Division was also a primary participant.
gulf_war: Yasser Arafat did not apologize for his support of Iraq, but after his death Mahmoud Abbas formally apologized in 2004 on behalf of the PLO.
gulf_war: Meanwhile, British forces attacked Iraq's Medina Division and a major Republican Guard logistics base.
gulf_war: Media watchdog group Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR) critically analyzed media coverage during the war in various articles and books, such as the 1991 Gulf War Coverage: The Worst Censorship was at Home.
gulf_war: In exchange, Washington gave al-Assad the green light to wipe out forces opposing Syria's rule in Lebanon and arranged for weapons valued at a billion dollars to be provided to Syria, mostly through Gulf states.
gulf_war: Further, there is at least one incident of a software error causing a Patriot missile's failure to engage an incoming Scud, resulting in deaths.
gulf_war: The government broadcast alerts and 'all clear' messages over television to warn citizens during Scud attacks.
gulf_war: In the report, Cheney acknowledged that 457 enemy soldiers were buried during the ground war.
gulf_war: Marine Corps was represented by the 1st Marine Division and the 2nd Marine Division.
gulf_war: However, the US did begin to condemn Iraq's human rights record, including the well-known use of torture.
gulf_war: [T]he Iraqi people, who were not consulted about the invasion, have paid the price for their government's madness ...
gulf_war: Also on 24 February the 1st Infantry Division along with the 1st Cavalry Division destroyed Iraqi outposts and patrols belonging to the Iraqi 26th Infantry Division.
gulf_war: The primary American attack helicopter was the Boeing AH-64 Apache (Army) with the Bell AH-1 Cobra (Army and Marines) also being in theatre.
gulf_war: The US also disliked Iraqi support for Palestinian militant groups, which led to Iraq's inclusion on the developing US list of State Sponsors of Terrorism in December 1979.
gulf_war: Formerly covering an area of around 3,000 km2 (1,200 sq mi), the large complex of wetlands were nearly emptied of water, and the local Shi'ite population relocated, following the war and 1991 uprisings.
gulf_war: Researchers have said that they did not have enough information to link birth defects with exposure to toxic substances.
gulf_war: The Iraqi government claimed that 2,300 civilians died during the air campaign.
gulf_war: Both sides suffered casualties, although Iraqi forces sustained substantially more dead and captured than the allied forces.
gulf_war: Over 14,000 rounds were fired during these missions.
gulf_war: The United States had 700,000 troops.
gulf_war: Scientific opinion on the risk is mixed.
gulf_war: 'What you saw was a bunch of buried trenches with peoples' arms and things sticking out of them.'" However, after the war, the Iraqi government said that only 44 bodies were found.
gulf_war: This was highlighted in the use of new military technologies including Precision-guided munitions and a stealth aircraft, the F-117 Nighthawk.
gulf_war: Millions of Kurds fled across the mountains to Turkey and Kurdish areas of Iran.
gulf_war: that she had served in Kuwait 20 years before; 'then, as now, we took no position on these Arab affairs'." Glaspie similarly believed that war was not imminent.
gulf_war: The Gulf War began with an extensive aerial bombing campaign on 16 January 1991.
gulf_war: On the day before the coalition ground invasion, the World Bank gave Iran the first loan of $250m.
gulf_war: Although they did not contribute forces, Japan and Germany made financial contributions totaling $10 billion and $6.6 billion respectively.
gulf_war: "Without electricity, hospitals cannot function, perishable medicines spoil, water cannot be purified and raw sewage cannot be processed,".
gulf_war: On 22 February 1991, Iraq agreed to a Soviet-proposed ceasefire agreement.
gulf_war: Modified versions of the vehicle included mortar carriers, MILAN antitank systems, and command and control vehicles; and the British possessed a variety of excellent light armoured vehicles built on their FV101 Scorpion chassis.
gulf_war: Many have cited its use during the war as a contributing factor to a number of major health issues in veterans and in surrounding civilian populations, including in birth defects and child cancer rates.
gulf_war: British infantry rode into battle on the Warrior tracked armoured vehicle.
gulf_war: Kuwait's policy, which led to this exodus, was a response to alignment of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and the PLO with Saddam Hussein.
gulf_war: Shortly afterwards, the US VII Corps, in full strength and spearheaded by the 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment, launched an armored attack into Iraq early on 24 February, just to the west of Kuwait, surprising Iraqi forces.
gulf_war: On 18 February Iraqi mortar positions continued to conduct fire missions against the Task Force.
gulf_war: On 24 February, British and American armored forces crossed the Iraq–Kuwait border and entered Iraq in large numbers, taking hundreds of prisoners.
gulf_war: These defensive positions were occupied by a brigade-sized element.
gulf_war: Other sources consider the Battle of Norfolk the largest tank battle of the war and the second largest tank battle in American military history, behind the Battle of the Bulge.
gulf_war: About 30–40% of this came from allied raids on Iraqi coastal targets.
gulf_war: Saudi Arabia expelled Yemeni workers after Yemen supported Saddam during the Gulf War.
gulf_war: British artillery was primarily American made M109 howitzers (155mm), M110 howitzers (203mm), and M270 MLRS which were compatible with American systems.
gulf_war: Following the UN-authorized use of force against Iraq, the Canadian Forces deployed a CF-18 Hornet and CH-124 Sea King squadron with support personnel, as well as a field hospital to deal with casualties from the ground war.
gulf_war: Common symptoms reported are chronic fatigue, fibromyalgia, and gastrointestinal disorder.
gulf_war: Some consider the Battle of Medina Ridge the largest tank battle of the war.
gulf_war: The broadest military alliance since World War II, its largest contributors were the US, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, and Egypt.
gulf_war: In the north, Kurdish leaders took American statements that they would support an uprising to heart, and began fighting, hoping to trigger a coup d'état.
gulf_war: When the air war began, the CF-18s were integrated into the coalition force and provided air cover and attacked ground targets.
gulf_war: 'I came through right after the lead company,' [Col.
gulf_war: Anthony] Moreno said.
gulf_war: After two days of intense combat, most of the Kuwaiti military were either overrun by the Iraqi Republican Guard, or had escaped to Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: Only selected journalists were allowed to visit the front lines or conduct interviews with soldiers.
gulf_war: Moreover, the change in the combined effect from one category to the next was significantly greater than the sum of the independent effects of the environmental exposure and the genotype".
gulf_war: Bush was strongly opposed to any "linkage" between Iraq's occupation of Kuwait and the Palestinian issue.
gulf_war: Iraqi forces in Khafji had 60–300 dead and 400 captured.
gulf_war: We would not have been able to get everybody out and bring everybody home.
gulf_war: At the same time, Saddam Hussein made the Kuwaiti dinar equal to the Iraqi dinar, thereby lowering the Kuwaiti currency to one-twelfth of its original value.
gulf_war: Some escaped to be killed or captured by other coalition forces.
gulf_war: One Saudi civilian was killed, and 78 others were injured.
gulf_war: Upon learning of Iraqi troop movements, 140 coalition aircraft were diverted to attack an advancing column consisting of two armored divisions in battalion-sized units.
gulf_war: Thousands of Iraqi troops were killed.
gulf_war: Saudi and Qatari forces had a total of 18 dead.
gulf_war: On 24 February 1991, the 1st and 2nd Marine Divisions and the 1st Light Armored Infantry Battalion crossed into Kuwait and headed toward Kuwait City.
gulf_war: Shortly after the Iraqi invasion, US defense secretary Dick Cheney made the first of several visits to Saudi Arabia where King Fahd requested US military assistance.
gulf_war: It was a powerful division consisting of 245 tanks and 195 armored fighting vehicles.
gulf_war: This joint effort would become known as Task Force Iron.
gulf_war: Together they inflicted significant damage on Iraqi ground forces.
gulf_war: This convoy was bombed so extensively by coalition air forces that it came to be known as the Highway of Death.
gulf_war: And the final point that I think needs to be made is this question of casualties.
gulf_war: The draining of the Qurna Marshes was an irrigation project in Iraq during and immediately after the war, to drain a large area of marshes in the Tigris–Euphrates river system.
gulf_war: External exposure to radiation from depleted uranium is generally not a major concern because the alpha particles emitted by its isotopes travel only a few centimeters in air or can be stopped by a sheet of paper.
gulf_war: By that time, however, the fires had burned for approximately 10 months, causing widespread pollution.
gulf_war: Throughout the Cold War, Iraq had been an ally of the Soviet Union, and there was a history of friction between Iraq and the United States.
gulf_war: In nearly two days of some of the war's most intense fighting, the British destroyed 40 enemy tanks and captured a division commander.
gulf_war: Because the American tendency ...
gulf_war: During the Gulf War, more than 200,000 Palestinians fled Kuwait during the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait due to harassment and intimidation by Iraqi security forces, in addition to getting fired from work by Iraqi authority figures in Kuwait.
gulf_war: Chief Royal Navy vessels deployed to the Persian Gulf included Broadsword-class frigates, and Sheffield-class destroyers; other R.N.
gulf_war: Control of these, along with Kuwaiti and Iraqi reserves, would have given Saddam control over most of the world's oil reserves.
gulf_war: The emir and key ministers fled south along the highway for refuge in Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: Eleven Americans were killed in two separate friendly fire incidents, an additional 14 US airmen were killed when their AC-130 gunship was shot down by an Iraqi surface-to-air missile, and two US soldiers were captured during the battle.
gulf_war: The two divisions also began capturing prisoners.
gulf_war: Marine Corps tank losses would be light as they suffered the loss of ten M-60 tanks during combat operations.
gulf_war: was designated to be the commander of the coalition forces.
gulf_war: The Bitburg contingent was based at Al Kharj Air Base.
gulf_war: Bush repeatedly compared Saddam Hussein to Hitler.
gulf_war: Researchers found that infants born to male veterans of the 1991 war had higher rates of two types of heart valve defects.
gulf_war: was to untie Iraq.
gulf_war: A briefing paper finalized on the day that the conflict ended draws on their findings which had two main conclusions: Many developing states were severely affected and while there has been a considerable response to the crisis, the distribution of assistance was highly selective.
gulf_war: The Task Force found itself engaged in six hours of combat in order to clear the extensive bunker complex.
gulf_war: Unlike many previous engagements, the destruction of the first Iraqi tanks did not result in a mass surrender.
gulf_war: According to The New York Times, he faced a population divided between those who stayed and those who fled, a government straining to reassert control and a rejuvenated opposition pressing for greater democracy and other postwar changes, including voting rights for women.
gulf_war: Liberation of Kuwait (Arabic: تحرير الكويت) (taḥrīr al-kuwayt) is the term used by Kuwait and most of the coalition's Arab states, including Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates.
gulf_war: Since Saudi Arabia houses Mecca and Medina, Islam's holiest sites, many Muslims were upset at the permanent military presence.
gulf_war: The UK suffered 47 deaths (nine to friendly fire, all by US forces), France nine, and the other countries, not including Kuwait, suffered 37 deaths (18 Saudis, one Egyptian, six UAE and three Qataris).
gulf_war: It was a formidable fighting force consisting of 1,487 tanks, 1,384 infantry fighting vehicles, 568 artillery pieces, 132 MLRS, 8 missile launchers, and 242 attack helicopters.
gulf_war: Iraq also looked to increase arms production so as to become an exporter, although the success of these projects was also restrained by Iraq's obligations; in Iraq, resentment to OPEC's controls mounted.
gulf_war: Task Force 1–41 Infantry was given the task of breaching Iraq's initial defensive positions along the Iraq–Saudi Arabia border.
gulf_war: They were engaged with artillery fire from 4–3 FA.
gulf_war: The Iraqis also had elements of two other independent armored brigades in theatre, those being the 50th and 29th Armored Brigades.
gulf_war: The rest of the formation was destroyed or driven away by artillery fire from 4–3 FA.
gulf_war: A reporter for the St.
gulf_war: Between 80,000 and 175,000 Iraqi troops were taken prisoner.
gulf_war: British Army regiments (mainly with the 1st Armoured Division), Royal Air Force, Naval Air Squadrons and Royal Navy vessels were mobilized in the Persian Gulf.
gulf_war: Royal Air Force Tornado crew John Nichol and John Peters have both alleged that they were tortured during this time.
gulf_war: The World Bank responded by speeding up the disbursement of existing project and adjustment loans.
gulf_war: Although the Iraqi military committed human rights abuses during the invasion, the alleged incidents that received the most publicity in the US were fabrications of the public relations firm hired by the government of Kuwait to persuade Americans to support military intervention.
gulf_war: On April 5, the Iraqi government announced "the complete crushing of acts of sedition, sabotage and rioting in all towns of Iraq." An estimated 25,000 to 100,000 Iraqis were killed in the uprisings.
gulf_war: On the 25th, Saddam met with April Glaspie, the US ambassador to Iraq, in Baghdad.
gulf_war: Meanwhile, US forces attacked the village of Al Busayyah, meeting fierce resistance.
gulf_war: Task Force 1–41 was the first coalition force to breach the Saudi Arabian border on 15 February 1991, and to conduct ground combat operations in Iraq against the enemy on 17 February 1991.
gulf_war: The PLO's Yasser Arafat expressed that neither he nor Saddam insisted that solving the Israel–Palestine issues should be a precondition to solving the issues in Kuwait, though he did acknowledge a "strong link" between these problems.
gulf_war: Over 1,000 Kuwaiti civilians were killed by Iraqis.
gulf_war: A series of battles unfolded resulting in heavy Iraqi casualties and the Iraqis being removed from their defensive positions with many becoming prisoners of war.
gulf_war: The conflict introduced live news broadcasts from the front lines of the battle, principally by American network CNN.
gulf_war: Within President Ronald Reagan's National Security Council concern was growing war could spread beyond the two belligerents.
gulf_war: It looks foolish, you see, this is fiction.
gulf_war: The US sent the battleships USS Missouri and USS Wisconsin.
gulf_war: When Baker asked King Fahd for $15 billion, the King agreed, with the promise that Baker ask Kuwait for the same amount.
gulf_war: It was assumed by the Corps' planners the Iraqi 52nd Armored Division would counterattack VII Corps once their penetration into Iraqi defenses was discovered.
gulf_war: We understand that and our opinion is that you should have the opportunity to rebuild your country.
gulf_war: Resolution 665 followed soon after, which authorized a naval blockade to enforce the sanctions.
gulf_war: The next day, 7 September, Baker did just that, and the emir of Kuwait, displaced in a Sheraton hotel outside Kuwait, agreed.
gulf_war: Three elderly people suffered fatal heart attacks, another 96 people were injured, and 20 apartment buildings were damaged.
gulf_war: The 1st Infantry Division cleared a zone between Phase Line Vermont and Phase Line Kansas.
gulf_war: The UK also condemned the execution of Farzad Bazoft, a journalist working for the British newspaper The Observer.
gulf_war: The conflict's environmental impact included Iraqi forces causing over six hundred oil well fires and the largest oil spill in history until that point.
gulf_war: However, President Bush pressured Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Shamir not to retaliate and withdraw Israeli jets, fearing that if Israel attacked Iraq, the other Arab states would either desert the coalition or join Iraq.
gulf_war: Operation Southern Watch enforced the no-fly zones over southern Iraq set up after 1991; oil exports through the Persian Gulf's shipping lanes were protected by the Bahrain-based US Fifth Fleet.
gulf_war: On 25 February 1991, a Scud missile hit a US Army barracks of the 14th Quartermaster Detachment, out of Greensburg, Pennsylvania, stationed in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, killing 28 soldiers and injuring over 100.
gulf_war: The Australian Task Force was also placed at great risk with regard to the sea mine threat, with HMAS Brisbane narrowly avoiding a mine.
gulf_war: The Kuwaitis quickly liberated the city despite losing one soldier and having one plane shot down.
gulf_war: For Egypt, the cost totaled $1 billion, 3% of GDP.
gulf_war: Two Israeli civilians died as a direct result of the missile attacks.
gulf_war: Yemen and Jordan – a Western ally which bordered Iraq and relied on the country for economic support – opposed military intervention from non-Arab states.
gulf_war: The 2nd Marine Division played a major role repelling the attempted Iraqi invasion of Saudi Arabia which is known as the Battle of Khafji.
gulf_war: Its Task Force 1-41 Infantry would be the spearhead of VII Corps.
gulf_war: For the next two days the Task Force observed Iraqi wheeled vehicles and small units move in front of them.
gulf_war: Due to lack of sufficient ground cover to carry out their assignment, One Zero and Three Zero abandoned their operations, while Two Zero remained, and was later compromised, with only Sergeant Chris Ryan escaping to Syria.
gulf_war: A 2022 study by Robert W.
gulf_war: On 15 March 1991, Sheikh Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah returned to Kuwait, staying at the private home of a wealthy Kuwaiti as his own palace had been destroyed.
gulf_war: Many of the coalition countries were reluctant to commit military forces.
gulf_war: Two BBC journalists, John Simpson and Bob Simpson (no relation), defied their editors and remained in Baghdad to report on the war's progress.
gulf_war: Following Kuwait's conquest, the Iraqi Army was within striking distance of Saudi oil fields.
gulf_war: M270 Multiple Launch Rocket Systems contributed an additional 4,900 rockets fired at Iraqi targets.
gulf_war: The Iraqi response was to immediately order an invasion, which started on 2 August 1990 with the bombing of Kuwait's capital, Kuwait City.
gulf_war: Reporters were banned from witnessing the attack, near the neutral zone that touches the border between Saudi Arabia and Iraq.
gulf_war: Military planners hoped the bombing would amplify the economic and psychological impact of international sanctions on Iraqi society ...
gulf_war: The two divisions formed the foundation of the Jihad Corps.
gulf_war: The Iraqi government described it as a form of economic warfare, which it claimed was aggravated by Kuwait slant-drilling across the border into Iraq's Rumaila oil field.
gulf_war: For 42 consecutive days and nights, the coalition forces subjected Iraq to one of the most intensive air bombardments in military history.
gulf_war: 3rd Armored Division destroyed approximately 300 enemy combat vehicles during this particular encounter with Iraqi forces.
gulf_war: Argentina was the only South American country to participate in the 1991 Gulf War.
gulf_war: Depleted uranium is not a significant health hazard unless it is taken into the body.
gulf_war: By February 27, talk had turned toward terminating the hostilities.
gulf_war: "In 1990 members of the Bush administration ...
gulf_war: By nightfall, the 101st cut off Highway 8 which was a vital supply line running between Basra and the Iraqi forces.
gulf_war: The Kuwaiti oil fires were caused by the Iraqi military setting fire to 700 oil wells as part of a scorched earth policy while retreating from Kuwait in 1991 after conquering the country but being driven out by coalition forces.
gulf_war: The result was a slump in the oil price – as low as $10 per barrel ($63/m3) – with a resulting loss of $7 billion a year to Iraq, equal to its 1989 balance of payments deficit.
gulf_war: cited Security Council resolutions as sufficient support for the President to act militarily against Iraq without congressional authority." A series of UN Security Council resolutions and Arab League resolutions were passed regarding Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
gulf_war: In 1994, the US Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs with Respect to Export Administration published a report entitled, "U.S.
gulf_war: This publication, called the Riegle Report, summarized testimony this committee had received establishing that the U.S.
gulf_war: This event was later called by the media "The Highway of Death".
gulf_war: President Mubarak was furious with Saddam for his invasion, and that Saddam had assured Mubarak that an invasion was not his intention.
gulf_war: Marine Task Force Ripper destroyed about 100 Iraqi tanks and armored personnel carriers, including T-72 tanks.
gulf_war: Jordan and Iraq both looked for more discipline, with little success.
gulf_war: Egypt received approximately $7 billion in debt forgiveness for providing support and troops for the US-led intervention.
gulf_war: Of the 148 US troops who died in battle, 24% were killed by friendly fire, a total of 35 service personnel.
gulf_war: Once into Iraqi territory Task Force 1–41 Infantry encountered multiple Iraqi defensive positions and bunkers.
gulf_war: American-made color photocopiers were used to produce some of Iraq's battle plans.
gulf_war: For a few hours, bypassed Iraqi RPG-equipped anti-tank teams, T-55 tanks, and dismounted Iraqi infantry fired at passing American vehicles, only to be destroyed by other US tanks and fighting vehicles following the initial forces.
gulf_war: It had a total troop strength of 146,321 troops.
gulf_war: After the US invasion of Iraq in 2003, the Gulf War of 1990–1991 is often known as the "First Iraq War".
gulf_war: At one point, Israeli commandos boarded helicopters prepared to fly into Iraq, but the mission was called off after a phone call from US defense secretary Dick Cheney, reporting on the extent of coalition efforts to destroy Scuds and emphasizing that Israeli intervention could endanger US forces.
gulf_war: In his book The Wars Against Saddam, John Simpson alleges that US forces attempted to cover up the incident.
gulf_war: The policy had been spelled out in a Pentagon document entitled Annex Foxtrot.
gulf_war: Every American in the assault was inside an armored vehicle.
gulf_war: Myatt said, "During the first day of combat operations 1st Platoon, D Company, 3rd Tank Battalion destroyed 15 Iraqi tanks".
gulf_war: The 1st Infantry Division's Task Force 2–16 Infantry cleared four lanes simultaneously through an enemy fortified trench system while inflicting heavy casualties on Iraqi forces.
gulf_war: Iraq was represented mostly by its own VII Corps and its Jihad Corps.
gulf_war: The fires started in January and February 1991, and the last one was extinguished by November.
gulf_war: Since military GPS receivers were not available for most troops, many used commercially available units.
gulf_war: However, these positions were poorly defended, and were overrun in the first few hours.
gulf_war: One of these losses is a confirmed air-air victory.
gulf_war: Iraq hoped to provoke a military response from Israel.
gulf_war: According to a 1992 study published in The New England Journal of Medicine by researchers known as the International Study Team (IST), child mortality increased threefold as a result of the war, with 46,900 children under the age of 5 dying between January and August 1991.
gulf_war: Most of its debt was owed to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
gulf_war: They took 500 prisoners and inflicted heavy losses, defeating Iraq's 26th Infantry Division.
gulf_war: Iraq also launched numerous attacks on civilian targets in Israel and Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: Canada was one of the first countries to condemn Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, and it quickly agreed to join the US-led coalition.
gulf_war: Not a single American was killed during the attack.
gulf_war: Prior to the war's start, in the aftermath of the failed US–Iraq peace talks in Geneva, Switzerland, a reporter asked Iraq's English-speaking foreign minister and deputy prime minister Tariq Aziz: "Mr.
gulf_war: The T-62 tank being its primary system.
gulf_war: On 17 January 1991 the 101st Airborne Division Aviation Regiment fired the first shots of the war when eight AH-64 helicopters successfully destroyed two Iraqi early warning radar sites.
gulf_war: Nichol and Peters were forced to make statements against the war on television.
gulf_war: In addition, the corps had the 2nd Cavalry Regiment (United States) to act as a scouting and screening force, and two further heavy divisions, the 1st Cavalry Division (United States) and the United Kingdom's 1st Armoured Division, as well as the U.S.
gulf_war: Deep Dish Television compiled segments from independent producers in the US and abroad, and produced a 10-hour series that was distributed internationally, called The Gulf Crisis TV Project.
gulf_war: He combined the language of the Islamist groups that had fought in Afghanistan with the rhetoric Iran had used to attack the Saudis.
gulf_war: According to oil workers in the area, Iraq's slant drilling claim was fabricated, as "oil flows easily from the Rumaila field without any need for these techniques." At the same time, Saddam looked for closer ties with those Arab states that had supported Iraq in the war.
gulf_war: 1st Infantry Division Artillery, which included 4-3 FA battalion, was decisive during artillery combat operations performing multiple raids and fire missions.
gulf_war: Once the 1st Infantry Division's 3rd Battalion, 37th Armor reached the Iraqi rear defensive positions it destroyed an Iraqi D-30 artillery battery and many trucks and bunkers.
gulf_war: Significant controversy regarding the long term safety of depleted uranium exists, including claims of pyrophoric, genotoxic, and teratogenic heavy metal effects.
gulf_war: From 1991 until 2003, the effects of government policy and sanctions regime led to hyperinflation, widespread poverty and malnutrition.
gulf_war: Depleted uranium has 40% less radioactivity than natural uranium.
gulf_war: In coalition-occupied Iraqi territory, a peace conference was held where a ceasefire agreement was negotiated and signed by both sides.
gulf_war: Kuwait had been a part of the Ottoman Empire's province of Basra, something that Iraq claimed made Kuwait rightful Iraqi territory.
gulf_war: For months, American units in Saudi Arabia had been under almost constant Iraqi artillery fire, as well as threats from Scud missiles and chemical attacks.
gulf_war: The U.S.M.C.
gulf_war: The US Navy dispatched two naval battle groups built around the aircraft carriers USS Dwight D.
gulf_war: So, I think we got it right, both when we decided to expel him from Kuwait, but also when the President made the decision that we'd achieved our objectives and we were not going to go get bogged down in the problems of trying to take over and govern Iraq.
gulf_war: During the late 1990s, the UN considered relaxing the sanctions imposed because of the hardships suffered by ordinary Iraqis.
gulf_war: Both Royal Air Force and Naval Air Squadrons, using various aircraft, operated from airbases in Saudi Arabia and Naval Air Squadrons from various vessels in the Persian Gulf.
gulf_war: Army's 2nd Armored Division's Tiger Brigade to provide the Marines with additional armor support.
gulf_war: The second largest European contingent was from France, which committed 18,000 troops.
gulf_war: The Tawakalna Republican Guard Division was Iraq's most powerful division which included approximately 14,000 soldiers, 220 T-72 tanks, 284 infantry fighting vehicles, 126 artillery pieces, and 18 MLRS.
gulf_war: 92 Senegalese soldiers and six Saudi crew members were killed.
gulf_war: Other objectives included the destruction of the launchers and their fiber-optic communications arrays that lay in pipelines and relayed coordinates to the TEL operators launching attacks against Israel.
gulf_war: Iraqi forces in Kuwait counterattacked against US troops, acting on a direct order from Saddam Hussein himself.
gulf_war: The commander of a Kuwaiti armored battalion, 35th Armoured Brigade, deployed them against the Iraqi attack and conducted a robust defense at the Battle of the Bridges near Al Jahra, west of Kuwait City.
gulf_war: By 1988, at the end of the Iran–Iraq war, the Iraqi Army was the world's fourth largest army, consisting of 955,000 standing soldiers and 650,000 paramilitary forces in the Popular Army.
gulf_war: After four days of fighting, Iraqi forces were expelled from Kuwait.
gulf_war: Iraqi vehicle losses included 357 tanks, 147 armored personnel carriers, and 89 mobile artillery pieces.
gulf_war: The Saudis had lent Iraq 26 billion dollars during its war with Iran, as the Saudis feared the influence of Shia Iran's Islamic revolution on its own Shia minority.
gulf_war: New York Times reporter Maureen Dowd wrote, "With the Iraqi leader facing military defeat, Mr.
gulf_war: The coalition flew over 100,000 sorties, dropping 88,500 tonnes of bombs, which widely destroyed military and civilian infrastructure.
gulf_war: The authors "found that the PON1 genotype and hearing nerve agent alarms were independent and the findings robust to both measured and unmeasured confounding, supporting a mechanistic [gene–environment] interaction.
gulf_war: Discussions in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, mediated on the Arab League's behalf by Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak, were held on 31 July and led Mubarak to believe that a peaceful course could be established.
gulf_war: One Iraqi soldier, who had fought in the Iran–Iraq War, remarked that his brigade "had sustained more punishment from allied airpower in 30 minutes at Khafji than in eight years of fighting against Iran."
gulf_war: AH-64 Apache attack helicopters from the 1st Infantry Division and B-52 bombers attacked the Iraqi 110th Infantry Brigade.
gulf_war: A Palestinian exodus from Kuwait took place during and after the Gulf War.
gulf_war: The Iraqi 80th Armored Brigade would also fall victim to the British 1st Armoured Division.
gulf_war: According to John Childs and André Corvisier, a low estimate shows the Iraqi Army capable of fielding 4,500 tanks, 484 combat aircraft and 232 combat helicopters.
gulf_war: In the night of 26–27 February 1991, some Iraqi forces began leaving Kuwait on the main highway north of Al Jahra in a column of some 1,400 vehicles.
gulf_war: The Iraqis engaged the Task Force with small arms fire, RPGs, mortar fire, and what was left of Iraqi artillery assets.
gulf_war: About $52 billion of that amount was paid by other countries: $36 billion by Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and other Arab states of the Persian Gulf; $16 billion by Germany and Japan (which sent no combat forces due to their constitutions).
gulf_war: On 16 February 1991 several groups of Iraqi vehicles appeared to be performing reconnaissance on the Task Force and were driven away by fire from 4–3 FA.
gulf_war: She had not lived in Kuwait during the Iraqi invasion.
gulf_war: At least 605 Kuwaiti soldiers were still missing 10 years after their capture.
gulf_war: A coalition began a military buildup in the Persian Gulf region.
gulf_war: The British 1st Armoured Division had traveled 217 miles in 97 hours.
gulf_war: VII Corps fought a number of large battles against Iraqi forces, with some of historic scope and size.
gulf_war: Fairchild Republic A-10 Thunderbolt II ground attack aircraft would distinguish itself during the Gulf War aided by the OH-58D JAATT eyes in the sky.
gulf_war: The series' first program War, Oil and Power was compiled and released in 1990, before the war broke out.
gulf_war: That was nonsense you see.
gulf_war: The French called their contribution Opération Daguet.
gulf_war: The real reason was to help them succeed in the war against Iran."
With Iraq's newfound success in the war, and the Iranian rebuff of a peace offer in July, arms sales to Iraq reached a record spike in 1982.
gulf_war: Those visits were always conducted in the presence of officers, and were subject to both prior approval by the military and censorship afterward.
gulf_war: The largest accident among coalition forces happened on 21 March 1991, when a Royal Saudi Air Force C-130H crashed in heavy smoke on approach to Ras Al-Mishab Airport, Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: The Overseas Development Institute (ODI) undertook a study in 1991 to assess the effects on developing states and the international community's response.
gulf_war: The Iraqi leader attacked American policy with regards to Kuwait and the UAE:
gulf_war: In all, 190 coalition troops were killed by Iraqi fire during the war, 113 of whom were American, out of 358 coalition deaths.
gulf_war: The agreement called for Iraq to withdraw troops to pre-invasion positions within six weeks following a total ceasefire, and called for monitoring of the ceasefire and withdrawal to be overseen by the UN Security Council.
gulf_war: The number of coalition wounded in combat was 776, including 458 Americans.
gulf_war: A fourth ship, HMCS Huron, arrived in-theater after hostilities had ceased and was the first allied ship to visit Kuwait.
gulf_war: Simultaneously, the US XVIII Airborne Corps launched a sweeping "left-hook" attack across southern Iraq's largely undefended desert, led by the US 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment and the 24th Infantry Division (Mechanized).
gulf_war: Haley of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, et al., of 1,016 U.S.
gulf_war: The Desert Rats also destroyed multiple Iraqi artillery positions.
gulf_war: In 2003, another US-led coalition invaded and occupied Iraq, beginning the Iraq War.
gulf_war: Before the invasion, the Kuwaiti military was believed to have numbered 16,000 men, arranged into three armored, one mechanized infantry and one under-strength artillery brigade.
gulf_war: Around 300 guns from multiple countries participated in the artillery barrage.
gulf_war: Bush, to review US options.
gulf_war: The Task Force returned fire on the Iraqi positions with artillery fire from 4–3 FA and 1st Infantry Division Artillery.
gulf_war: The Battle of Khafji ended two days later when the Iraqis were driven back by the Saudi Arabian National Guard, supported by Qatari forces and US Marines.
gulf_war: When the first Iraqi missiles hit Israel, some people injected themselves with an antidote for nerve gas.
gulf_war: The main Iraqi thrust into Kuwait City was conducted by commandos deployed by helicopters and boats to attack the city from the sea, while other divisions seized the airports and two airbases.
gulf_war: The US Department of Defense reports that US forces suffered 148 battle-related deaths (35 to friendly fire), with one pilot listed as MIA (his remains were found and identified in August 2009).
gulf_war: These systems provided essential communications links between air, ground, and naval forces.
gulf_war: It was then that I decided to act to check that aggression."
The Pentagon stated that satellite photos showing a buildup of Iraqi forces along the border were the source of this information, but this was later alleged to be false.
gulf_war: After some deliberation, they opted to use anti-mine plows mounted on tanks and combat earthmovers to simply plow over and bury alive the defending Iraqi soldiers.
gulf_war: It had reasonable armour protection and a 30mm gun.
gulf_war: The missile attack killed 28 US military personnel.
gulf_war: Within Desert Storm's first 24 hours, more than 1,000 sorties were flown, many against targets in Baghdad.
gulf_war: It was nonsense to think that the Americans would not attack us." Then in a second 2000 interview with the same television program, Aziz said:There were no mixed signals.
gulf_war: [By February 26], the Iraqis totally lost heart and started to evacuate occupied Kuwait, but airpower halted the caravan of Iraqi Army and plunderers fleeing toward Basra.
gulf_war: No casualties were reported in Bahrain or Qatar.
gulf_war: This was a vital step in ensuring Arab states were represented in the coalition.
gulf_war: Iraqi anti-aircraft defenses, including man-portable air-defense systems, were surprisingly ineffective against enemy aircraft, and the coalition suffered only 75 aircraft losses in over 100,000 sorties, 44 due to Iraqi action.
gulf_war: Iraq would also field multiple Infantry Divisions.
gulf_war: And the question in my mind is, how many additional American casualties is Saddam [Hussein] worth?
gulf_war: The White House rejected the proposal.
gulf_war: It was also feared that if Israel used Syrian or Jordanian airspace to attack Iraq, they would intervene in the war on Iraq's side or attack Israel.
gulf_war: The 1st Marine Division destroyed around 60 Iraqi tanks near the Burgan oil field without suffering any losses.
gulf_war: They were supported by the U.S.
gulf_war: 190 coalition troops were killed by Iraqi combatants, the rest of the 379 coalition deaths were from friendly fire or accidents.
gulf_war: The 1st Squadron, 4th Armored Cavalry Regiment handled similar responsibilities in its sector of operations.
gulf_war: US Army General Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr.
gulf_war: Once special operations were combined with air patrols, the number of attacks fell sharply, then increased slightly as Iraqi forces adjusted to coalition tactics.
gulf_war: I would guess if we had gone in there, we would still have forces in Baghdad today.
gulf_war: In the process of clearing the bunkers, Task Force 1–41 captured two brigade command posts and the command post of the Iraqi 26th Infantry Division.
gulf_war: They were joined by 36 F-15 A-Ds from the 36th Tactical Fighter Wing at Bitburg, Germany.
gulf_war: Counter-reconnaissance generally includes destroying or repelling the enemy's reconnaissance elements and denying their commander any observation of friendly forces.
gulf_war: The largest single loss of life among coalition forces happened on 25 February 1991, when an Iraqi Al Hussein missile hit a US military barrack in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, killing 28 US Army Reservists from Pennsylvania.
gulf_war: A Project on Defense Alternatives study found that 3,664 Iraqi civilians were killed in the conflict.
gulf_war: Gulf War veterans found evidence of a causal link between GWS and exposure to low levels of the nerve agent sarin, which was released into the air by coalition bombing of Iraqi chemical weapons facilities.
gulf_war: A patrolling E-8 Joint STARS aircraft observed the retreating forces and relayed the information to the DDM-8 air operations center in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: On 12 August 1990, Saddam "propose[d] that all cases of occupation, and those cases that have been portrayed as occupation, in the region, be resolved simultaneously".
gulf_war: It had more modern equipment than the other regular Iraqi units.
gulf_war: Some children born after the war to Gulf War veterans had a certain kidney defect that was not found in Gulf War veterans' children born before the war.
gulf_war: In 1992, the US defense secretary during the war, Dick Cheney, made the same point:
gulf_war: The Saudi government issued all its citizens and expatriates with gas masks in the event of Iraq using missiles with warheads containing chemical weapons.
gulf_war: When US secretary of state James Baker met with Tariq Aziz in Geneva, for last minute peace talks in early 1991, Aziz reportedly made no concrete proposals and did not outline any hypothetical Iraqi moves.
gulf_war: The plan was implemented and became the basis for US preparedness to respond to the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait in 1991.
gulf_war: The battle featured the "Reveille Engagement" which went on to become the largest tank battle in United States Marine Corps' entire history.
gulf_war: The war was named Umm al-Ma'arik ("mother of all battles") by Iraqi officials.
gulf_war: The Iraqi Army did commit well-documented crimes during its occupation, such as the summary execution without trial of three brothers, after which their bodies were stacked and left to decay in a street.
gulf_war: That same evening the Task Force identified an Iraqi mortar position and engaged it with both direct and indirect fires.
gulf_war: Israel prepared to militarily retaliate, as its policy for the previous 40 years had always been retaliation.
gulf_war: Much of the material was airlifted or carried to the staging areas via fast sealift ships, allowing a quick buildup.
gulf_war: The Battle of Khafji was an example of how air power could single-handedly hinder the advance of enemy ground forces.
gulf_war: Once the allies had penetrated deep into Iraqi territory, they turned eastward, launching a flank attack against the elite Republican Guard before it could escape.
gulf_war: In addition, medical teams were deployed aboard a US hospital ship, and a naval clearance diving team took part in de-mining Kuwait's port facilities following the end of combat operations.
gulf_war: When Iraqi president Saddam Hussein expelled Abu Nidal to Syria at the US's request in November 1983, the Reagan administration sent Donald Rumsfeld to meet Saddam as a special envoy and to cultivate ties.
gulf_war: So what can it mean when America says it will now protect its friends?
gulf_war: On 24 February 1991, the coalition launched a decisive ground assault liberating Kuwait and promptly advancing into Iraqi territory.
gulf_war: Two examples of this are the US Navy's Grumman E-2 Hawkeye and the US Air Force's Boeing E-3 Sentry.
gulf_war: The invasion was primarily over Kuwait's alleged slant drilling in Iraq's Rumaila oil field, and Iraq's large debt to Kuwait from the recently ended Iran–Iraq War.
gulf_war: The increased importance of air attacks from both coalition warplanes and cruise missiles led to controversy over the number of civilian deaths caused during Desert Storm's initial stages.
gulf_war: Both the US Army and the missile manufacturers maintained the Patriot delivered a "miracle performance" in the Gulf War.
gulf_war: The ground campaign consisted of three or possibly four of the largest tank battles in American military history.
gulf_war: Initial draining of the Central Marshes was intended to reclaim land for agriculture but later all three marshes would become a tool of war and revenge.
gulf_war: But repeated American statements last year made it apparent that America did not regard us as friends.
gulf_war: A group of Afghan mujahideen soldiers also reportedly joined towards the end of the war.
gulf_war: Argentina was later classified by the US as a major non-NATO ally due to its contributions during the war.
gulf_war: In 1996, bin Laden issued a fatwa, calling for US troops to leave Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: The Iraqis fielded them in great numbers.
gulf_war: Between 11 and 74 died from incorrect use of gas masks, heart attacks, and incorrect use of the anti-chemical weapons drug atropine.
gulf_war: The group's commander stated his unit lost 83 of its 100 guns to the artillery preparation.
gulf_war: The 101st Airborne Division conducted a combat air assault into enemy territory.
gulf_war: However, Iraqi air defenses shot down nine US aircraft.
gulf_war: The Palestinians who fled Kuwait were Jordanian citizens.
gulf_war: The coalition's efforts were in two phases: Operation Desert Shield, which marked the military buildup from August 1990 to January 1991; and Operation Desert Storm, from the bombing campaign against Iraq on 17 January until the American-led liberation of Kuwait on 28 February.
gulf_war: In one noted incident, two USAF stealth planes bombed a bunker in Amiriyah, killing 408 Iraqi civilians.
gulf_war: Iraqi commandos infiltrated the Kuwaiti border first to prepare for the major units, which began the attack at midnight.
gulf_war: About 25% of Saudi Arabia's contribution was paid with in-kind services to the troops, such as food and transportation.
gulf_war: Many returning coalition soldiers reported illnesses following their action in the war, a phenomenon known as Gulf War syndrome (GWS) or Gulf War illness (GWI).
gulf_war: In a US bid to open full diplomatic relations with Iraq, the country was removed from the US list of State Sponsors of Terrorism.
gulf_war: A few combat sorties were flown against Iraqi ground forces.
gulf_war: US Marines fought for hours before securing the airport, after which Kuwait was declared secure.
gulf_war: Luxembourg provided financial support.
gulf_war: Most of the press information came from briefings organized by the military.
gulf_war: The coalition halted its ground advance after one hundred hours, and declared a ceasefire.
gulf_war: Nevertheless, some people back home wrongly chose to believe we were cruelly and unusually punishing our already whipped foes.
gulf_war: In Kuwait, the Emir was restored, and suspected Iraqi collaborators were repressed.
gulf_war: Iraqi troops offered only light resistance.
gulf_war: Iraqi secret police broke his nose, dislocated his shoulder and punctured his eardrum.
gulf_war: To permit these to be used to best effect, the "selective availability" feature of the GPS system was turned off for the duration of Desert Storm, allowing these commercial receivers to provide the same precision as the military equipment.
gulf_war: These missile attacks were to continue throughout the war.
gulf_war: Later that evening the Task Force received enemy artillery fire but suffered no casualties.
gulf_war: As part of a scorched earth policy, they set fire to nearly 700 oil wells and placed land mines around the wells to make extinguishing the fires more difficult.
gulf_war: Precision-guided munitions amounted to approximately 7.4% of all bombs dropped by the coalition.
gulf_war: The use of Italian aircraft as part of the Desert Storm operation represented the first operational employment in combat missions of Italian Air Force aircraft since the end of World War II.
gulf_war: By the end of these raids Iraqi artillery assets had all but ceased to exist.
gulf_war: It is estimated that Iraqi forces suffered 20,000–50,000 troops killed during combat operations.
gulf_war: Yemen had a cost of $830 million, 10% of GDP, while it cost Jordan $1.8 billion, 32% of GDP.
gulf_war: It has been suggested that the sturdy construction techniques used in Israeli cities, coupled with the fact that Scuds were only launched at night, played an important role in limiting the number of casualties from Scud attacks.
gulf_war: A-10 "Warthog" crews would destroy 900 Iraqi tanks, 2,000 other military vehicles and 1,200 artillery pieces during combat operations.
gulf_war: The Iraqi 3rd Armored Division would be totally destroyed.
gulf_war: In January, the Division was placed under the tactical control of the XVIII Airborne Corps.
gulf_war: Task Force 3–37th Armor breached the Iraqi defense clearing four passage lanes and expanding the gap under direct enemy fire.
gulf_war: Prior to this action the Task Force's primary fire support battalion, 4th Battalion of the 3rd Field Artillery Regiment, participated in a massive artillery preparation.
gulf_war: MacArthur's Second Front: Censorship and Propaganda in the Gulf War, and came to public attention when an Op-ed by MacArthur was published in The New York Times.
gulf_war: Coalition air forces were also extensively exercised in "Scud hunts" in the Iraqi desert, trying to locate the camouflaged trucks before they fired their missiles at Israel or Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: Iraqi reconnaissance elements continued to patrol the area between the Task Force and the 1st Cavalry Division.
gulf_war: So it would be quite foolish to think that, if we go to Kuwait, then America would like that.
gulf_war: A British Challenger 1 achieved the longest range confirmed tank kill of the war, destroying an Iraqi tank with an armour-piercing fin-stabilized discarding-sabot (APFSDS) round fired over 4,700 metres (2.9 mi)—the longest tank-on-tank kill shot ever recorded.
gulf_war: After 48 hours of combat the British 1st Armoured Division destroyed or isolated four Iraqi infantry divisions (the 26th, 48th, 31st, and 25th) and overran the Iraqi 52nd Armored Division in several sharp engagements.
gulf_war: US troops represented 73% of the coalition's 956,600 troops in Iraq.
gulf_war: The Dutch Ministry of Defense, which also sent Patriot missiles to protect civilians in Israel and Turkey, later disputed the higher claim.
gulf_war: On March 1, 1991, one day after the Gulf War ceasefire, a revolt broke out in Basra against the Iraqi government.
gulf_war: The result of the Jeddah talks was an Iraqi demand for $10 billion to cover the lost revenues from Rumaila; Kuwait offered $500 million.
gulf_war: More than 600 Kuwaitis went missing during Iraq's occupation, and approximately 375 remains were found in mass graves in Iraq.
gulf_war: They'd already learned to scamper off into the desert when our aircraft started to attack.
gulf_war: The resistance predominantly consisted of ordinary citizens who lacked any form of training and supervision.
gulf_war: On 24 February 2nd Brigade, 1st Infantry Division rolled through the breach in the Iraqi defense west of Wadi al-Batin and also cleared the northeastern sector of the breach site of enemy resistance.
gulf_war: Operation Granby was the code name for the operations in the Persian Gulf.
gulf_war: It was the deepest air assault operation in history.
gulf_war: The battles at 73 Easting, Norfolk, and Medina Ridge are well noted for their historical significance.
gulf_war: 11th Aviation Group.
gulf_war: Under enemy fire, the 1st and 9th Engineer Battalions marked and proofed assault lanes to secure a foothold in enemy territory and pass the 1st Infantry Division and the 1st Armoured Division forward.
gulf_war: Task Force 1-41 Infantry was a US Army heavy battalion task force from the 2nd Armored Division (Forward).
gulf_war: US decoy attacks by air attacks and naval gunfire the night before Kuwait's liberation were designed to make the Iraqis believe the main coalition ground attack would focus on central Kuwait.
gulf_war: During the 42 days of war, Italian fighters made 226 sorties for a total of 589 flight hours.
gulf_war: Among the American combat dead were four female soldiers.
gulf_war: Patrick Day Sloyan of Newsday reported, "Bradley Fighting Vehicles and Vulcan armored carriers straddled the trench lines and fired into the Iraqi soldiers as the tanks covered them with mounds of sand.
gulf_war: The Gulf War was an armed conflict between Iraq and a 42-country coalition led by the United States.
gulf_war: The British 1st Armoured Division was responsible for protecting the right flank of VII Corps.
gulf_war: It was equipped with T-72 and T-62 tanks.
gulf_war: Overall the primary tank of the Iraqi forces was the T-55 tank.
gulf_war: The light aircraft carrier HMS Ark Royal was deployed to the Mediterranean Sea.
gulf_war: Many of the targets were chosen only secondarily to contribute to the military defeat of Iraq ...
gulf_war: It was the largest coalition since World War II.
gulf_war: In 1989, it appeared that Saudi–Iraqi relations, strong during the war, would be maintained.
gulf_war: But we have no opinion on the Arab-Arab conflicts, like your border disagreement with Kuwait ...
gulf_war: It was a feint attack, designed to make the Iraqis think that a coalition invasion would take place from the south.
gulf_war: The young woman was found to be a member of Kuwait's royal family and the daughter of Kuwait's ambassador to the US.
gulf_war: The missiles were fired at both military and civilian targets.
gulf_war: This "wholly defensive" doctrine was quickly abandoned when, on 8 August, Iraq declared Kuwait to be Iraq's 19th province and Saddam named his cousin, Ali Hassan Al-Majid, as its governor.
gulf_war: The United Nations Special Commission sought to end Iraq's weapons of mass destruction programs.
gulf_war: The Iran–Iraq war had been going on for five years and both had sustained casualties into the hundreds of thousands.
gulf_war: However, when no US support came, Iraqi generals remained loyal to Saddam and brutally crushed the Kurdish uprising and the uprising in the south.
gulf_war: It earned the nickname Video Game War, after the daily broadcast of images from cameras onboard American military aircraft.
gulf_war: Approximately 400 helicopters transported 2,000 soldiers into Iraq where they destroyed Iraqi columns trying to flee westward and prevented the escape of Iraqi forces.
gulf_war: In a press conference, General Schwarzkopf stated that these exercises were intended to deceive the Iraqi forces, forcing them to continue their defense of the Kuwaiti coastline.
gulf_war: The artillery bombardment was supplemented by Boeing B-52 Stratofortress bombing raids and Lockheed AC-130 attacks.
gulf_war: Another 44 soldiers were killed and 57 wounded by friendly fire.
gulf_war: After the war, Saddam felt he should not have to repay the loans due to the help he had given the Saudis by fighting Iran.
gulf_war: The Canadian Task Group led the coalition's maritime logistics forces in the Persian Gulf.
gulf_war: The marshes are typically divided into three main sub-marshes, the Hawizeh, Central, and Hammar Marshes and all three were drained at different times for different reasons.
gulf_war: US bombing and demolition of Iraqi chemical weapons facilities were concluded to be the primary cause of Gulf War syndrome, experienced by over 40% of US veterans.
gulf_war: The 3rd Battalion claimed 57 T-55s and T-62s along with 5 T-72s, 7 APCs, and 10 trucks.
gulf_war: The exact number of Iraqi combat casualties is unknown, but is believed to have been heavy.
gulf_war: By 2000, the United Nations Environment Programme estimated that 90% of the marshlands had disappeared, causing desertification of over 7,500 square miles (19,000 km2).
gulf_war: After his conquest of Kuwait, Saddam verbally attacked the Saudis.
gulf_war: It was reported as a deliberate natural resources attack to keep US Marines from coming ashore (Missouri and Wisconsin had shelled Failaka Island during the war to reinforce the idea that there would be an amphibious assault attempt).
gulf_war: The Iraqi 3rd Armored Division losses included more than 250 T-55/62s and 70 T-72 tanks by the end of combat operations.
gulf_war: US policy regarding media freedom was much more restrictive than in the Vietnam War.
gulf_war: They deliberately did great harm to Iraq's ability to support itself as an industrial society ...
gulf_war: International response to the crisis on developing states came with the channeling of aid through The Gulf Crisis Financial Co-ordination Group.
gulf_war: and RFA ships were also deployed.
gulf_war: The 1st Infantry Division's 5th Battalion, 16th Infantry also played a significant role clearing the trenches and captured 160 Iraqi soldiers in the process.
gulf_war: The Italian Air Force recorded the loss of a single aircraft in the Gulf War.
gulf_war: A UN mission to the Israeli-occupied territories, where riots had resulted in Palestinian deaths, was vetoed by the US, making Iraq deeply skeptical of US foreign policy aims in the region, combined with the reliance of the US on Middle Eastern energy reserves.
gulf_war: Some estimate that Iraq sustained between 20,000 and 35,000 fatalities.
gulf_war: The 1st Tank Battalion claimed 50 Iraqi T-55 and T-62 tanks and 25 APCs.
gulf_war: On 29 January, Iraqi forces attacked and occupied the lightly defended Saudi city of Khafji with tanks and infantry.
gulf_war: The European Community offered $2 billion in assistance.
gulf_war: Studies dispute the number of people who died in south and central Iraq during the years of the sanctions.
gulf_war: The primary American artillery system was the self propelled M109 howitzer.
gulf_war: The United Kingdom was represented by its 1st Armoured Division known as the Desert Rats.
gulf_war: They were 24 states, comprising most of the OECD countries plus some Gulf states: Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Kuwait.
gulf_war: Resulting revenues struggled to support the government's basic costs, let alone repair Iraq's damaged infrastructure.
gulf_war: Ostensibly, this was because of improvement in the regime's record, although former US assistant defense secretary Noel Koch later stated: "No one had any doubts about [the Iraqis'] continued involvement in terrorism ...
gulf_war: Saddam stated that he would attempt last-ditch negotiations with the Kuwaitis but Iraq "would not accept death."
According to Glaspie's own account, she stated in reference to the precise border between Kuwait and Iraq, "...
gulf_war: And the answer is, not that damned many.
gulf_war: It was not only the limitation of information in the Middle East; media were also restricting what was shown about the war with more graphic depictions like Ken Jarecke's image of a burnt Iraqi soldier being pulled from the American AP wire whereas in Europe it was given extensive coverage.
gulf_war: In the war's aftermath, the Iraqi government suppressed a series of uprisings until 5 April 1991.
gulf_war: Imagine a surrealistic painting by Salvador Dalí".
gulf_war: On 27 February, Saddam ordered a retreat from Kuwait, and President Bush declared it liberated.
gulf_war: The ODI factored in elements of "cost" which included oil imports, remittance flows, re-settlement costs, loss of export earnings and tourism.
gulf_war: The British had their full contingent of engineer, logistics, and medical units.
gulf_war: The Iraqis resisted fiercely from dug-in positions and stationary vehicles, and even mounted armored charges.
gulf_war: A US soldier was killed by an Iraqi land mine, another five by friendly fire, and 30 wounded during the battle.
gulf_war: In the process, the Iraqis killed Fahad Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, the Emir's youngest brother.
gulf_war: These events drew little notice outside the Arab world because of fast-moving events directly related to the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe.
gulf_war: The division also took over 7,000 Iraqi prisoners of war including two division commanders and two other general officers.
gulf_war: Other justifications for foreign involvement included Iraq's history of human rights abuses under Saddam.
gulf_war: On 23 February, fighting resulted in the capture of 500 Iraqi soldiers.
gulf_war: Baker moved to enter talks with Egypt, whose leadership he considered "the moderate voice of the Middle East".
gulf_war: He argued the US-supported Saudi state was an illegitimate and unworthy guardian of the holy cities of Mecca and Medina.
gulf_war: The division commander Maj.
gulf_war: One Iraqi unit that was totally destroyed during the preparation was the Iraqi 48th Infantry Division Artillery Group.
gulf_war: The coalition rejected the proposal, but said that retreating Iraqi forces would not be attacked, and gave 24 hours for Iraq to withdraw its forces.
gulf_war: The rebellions were encouraged by an airing of "The Voice of Free Iraq" on 24 February 1991, which was broadcast from a CIA-run radio station out of Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: Terms in other languages include French: la Guerre du Golfe and Guerre du Koweït (War of Kuwait); German: Golfkrieg (Gulf War) and Zweiter Golfkrieg (Second Gulf War).
gulf_war: The Australians played a significant role in enforcing the sanctions put in place against Iraq following Kuwait's invasion.
gulf_war: At the conference, Iraq was authorized to fly armed helicopters on their side of the temporary border, ostensibly for government transit due to the damage done to civilian infrastructure.
gulf_war: This move was supported by the US, who believed that Iraqi ties with pro-Western Gulf states would help bring and maintain Iraq inside the US' sphere of influence.
gulf_war: The British 1st Armoured Division had captured or destroyed about 300 Iraqi tanks and a very large number of armored personnel carriers, trucks, reconnaissance vehicles, etc.
gulf_war: In March 1982, Iran began a successful counteroffensive (Operation Undeniable Victory), and the US increased its support for Iraq to prevent Iran from forcing a surrender.
gulf_war: This was ostensibly to protect sensitive information from being revealed to Iraq.
gulf_war: The stolen banknotes are a collectible for numismatists.
gulf_war: These eight-man patrols landed behind Iraqi lines to gather intelligence on the movements of Scud mobile missile launchers, which could not be detected from the air, as they were hidden under bridges and camouflage netting during the day.
gulf_war: troops in Saudi Arabia after the war was one of the stated motivations behind the 11 September terrorist attacks, the Khobar Towers bombing, and the date chosen for the 1998 US embassy bombings (7 August), which was eight years to the day that US troops were sent to Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: On 23 August, Saddam appeared on state television with Western hostages to whom he had refused exit visas.
gulf_war: The United Arab Emirates and Kuwait were consistently overproducing; the latter at least in part to repair losses caused by Iranian attacks in the Iran–Iraq War and to pay for the losses of an economic scandal.
gulf_war: The Iraqis fiercely resisted, and the Americans eventually withdrew as planned back into the Wadi al-Batin.
gulf_war: On the ground, special operations forces also infiltrated Iraq, tasked with locating and destroying Scuds – including the ill-fated Bravo Two Zero patrol of the SAS.
gulf_war: Bush decided that he would rather gamble on a violent and potentially unpopular ground war than risk the alternative: an imperfect settlement hammered out by the Soviets and Iraqis that world opinion might accept as tolerable."
Chuck Horner, Commander of US and allied air operations, has written:
gulf_war: Precision-guided munitions, informally "smart bombs", were heralded as key in allowing military strikes to be made with a minimum of civilian casualties compared to previous wars, although they were not used as often as more traditional, less accurate bombs.
gulf_war: The Iraq–Kuwait border dispute involved Iraqi claims to Kuwaiti territory.
gulf_war: She didn't tell us in the sense that we concluded that the Americans will not retaliate.
gulf_war: The uprising spread within days to all of the largest Shia cities in southern Iraq: Najaf, Amarah, Diwaniya, Hilla, Karbala, Kut, Nasiriyah and Samawah.
gulf_war: Following the war's end, Australia deployed a medical unit on Operation Habitat to northern Iraq as part of Operation Provide Comfort.
gulf_war: However, if allowed to enter the body, depleted uranium, like natural uranium, has the potential for both chemical and radiological toxicity with the two important target organs being the kidneys and the lungs.
gulf_war: In 2012, 80,000 Palestinians (without Jordanian citizenship) lived in Kuwait.
gulf_war: Once the 1st Marine Division reached Kuwait International Airport they found what remained of the Iraqi 12th Armored Brigade, 3rd Armored Division defending it.
gulf_war: VII Corps was the primary combat formation of the coalition forces.
gulf_war: Normally that would not be any of our business.
gulf_war: Democracy advocates had been calling for restoration of Parliament that the emir had suspended in 1986.
gulf_war: According to the Project on Defense Alternatives study, between 20,000 and 26,000 Iraqi military personnel were killed in the conflict while 75,000 others were wounded.
gulf_war: The Senate supported the military actions in a 52–47 vote.
gulf_war: The 1st Marine Division Task Force Ripper led the drive to the Kuwait International Airport on 27 February 1991.
gulf_war: American, British, and French forces continued to pursue retreating Iraqi forces over the border and back into Iraq, eventually moving to within 240 km (150 mi) of Baghdad, before withdrawing back to Iraq's border with Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: The French force quickly overcame Iraq's 45th Infantry Division, suffering light casualties and taking a large number of prisoners, and took up blocking positions to prevent an Iraqi counterattack on the coalition's flank.
gulf_war: Frankly, we can only see that you have deployed massive troops in the south.
gulf_war: On 22 January 1991, a Scud missile hit the Israeli city of Ramat Gan, after two coalition Patriots failed to intercept it.
gulf_war: Kuwaiti forces were tasked with liberating the city.
gulf_war: Only one, Chris Ryan, evaded capture while the group's other surviving members were violently tortured.
gulf_war: On 17 February 1991 the Task Force took enemy mortar fire, but the enemy forces managed to escape.
gulf_war: I don't think you could have done all of that without significant additional US casualties, and while everybody was tremendously impressed with the low cost of the conflict, for the 146 Americans who were killed in action and for their families, it wasn't a cheap war.
gulf_war: Iraq had grievances with Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: The 101st had lost 16 soldiers in action during the 100-hour war and captured thousands of enemy prisoners of war.
gulf_war: Fleeing soldiers were bombed with a device known as a 'fuel-air explosive.'"
gulf_war: The 101st Airborne Division travelled a further 80 to 100 km (50 to 60 mi) into Iraq.
gulf_war: The coalition advance was preceded by a heavy artillery and rocket barrage, after which 150,000 troops and 1,500 tanks began their advance.
gulf_war: Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) and satellite communication systems were also important.
gulf_war: The 8th Battalion destroyed more than three dozen tanks and a number of other vehicles.
gulf_war: The story helped tip the public and Congress towards a war with Iraq: six Congressmen said the testimony was enough for them to support military action against Iraq and seven Senators referenced the testimony in debate.
gulf_war: The US remained officially neutral after Iraq's invasion of Iran in 1980, which became the Iran–Iraq War, although it provided resources, political support, and some "non-military" aircraft to Iraq.
gulf_war: This led to Iraq annexing Kuwait's territories establishing Basra Governorate in the north and Kuwait Governorate in the south.
gulf_war: The US force destroyed military hardware and took prisoners, while suffering no casualties.
gulf_war: Kuwait rejected Iraqi attempts to secure further provisions in the region.
gulf_war: As a result, Israel's government issued gas masks to its citizens.
gulf_war: He wanted her to carry a message to George Bush—not to receive a message through her from Washington.
gulf_war: It is one of several reasons coalition forces dominated the air war.
gulf_war: The first units to move into Iraq were three patrols of the British Special Air Service's B squadron, call signs Bravo One Zero, Bravo Two Zero, and Bravo Three Zero, in late January.
gulf_war: Osama bin Laden interpreted the Islamic prophet Muhammad as banning the "permanent presence of infidels in Arabia".
gulf_war: The Marines also destroyed 25 APCs and took 300 prisoners of war.
gulf_war: The following names have been used to describe the conflict itself:
Gulf War and Persian Gulf War are the most common terms for the conflict used within western countries, though it may also be called the First Gulf War (to distinguish it from the 2003 invasion of Iraq and the subsequent Iraq War).
gulf_war: The largest tank battles in American military history were also fought, surpassed only by the Battle of the Bulge: the Battle of Medina Ridge, the Battle of Norfolk, and the Battle of 73 Easting.
gulf_war: Both were used in command and control area of operations.
gulf_war: A 1991 report by Middle East Watch said that at least one Saudi civilian was killed after they were hit by Iraqi shelling in Riyadh.
gulf_war: An investigation in 1992 by Beth Osborne Daponte estimated about 13,000 civilians were directly killed in the war, while another 70,000 died indirectly from the war's other effects.
gulf_war: The Iraqis continued probing operations against the Task Force for approximately two hours.
gulf_war: These vehicles and the retreating soldiers were subsequently attacked by two A-10 aircraft, resulting in a 60 kilometres (37 mi) stretch of highway strewn with debris—the Highway of Death.
gulf_war: would often encounter the Iraqi 3rd Armored Division in their theater of operations.
gulf_war: Despite the successes of coalition forces, it was feared that the Iraqi Republican Guard would escape into Iraq before it could be destroyed.
gulf_war: Iraq pressured both nations to forgive the debts, but they refused.
gulf_war: In 2004, Iraq had the highest mortality rate due to leukemia of any country.
gulf_war: A 90,000 round artillery preparation fire on Iraqi defensive positions preceded the major ground assault, lasting 2.5 hours.
gulf_war: The role of Iraq's Scud missiles featured prominently in the war.
gulf_war: In the end, however, many governments were persuaded by Iraq's belligerence towards other Arab states, offers of economic aid or debt forgiveness, and threats to withhold aid.
gulf_war: had in the 1980s supplied Saddam Hussein with chemical and biological warfare technology, that Saddam had used such chemical weapons against Iran and his own native Kurds, and possibly against U.S.
gulf_war: We place it where we want our friends to be and we try to be friends.
gulf_war: 3rd Armored Division also fought a significant battle at Objective Dorset not far from where the Battle of Norfolk was taking place.
gulf_war: It hired the public relations firm Hill & Knowlton for about $11 million, paid by Kuwait's government.
gulf_war: This number was much lower than expected.
gulf_war: Saddam's foreign minister Tariq Aziz later told PBS Frontline in 1996 that the Iraqi leadership was under "no illusion" about America's likely response to the Iraqi invasion: "She [Glaspie] didn't tell us anything strange.
gulf_war: Kuwait's ruling dynasty, the al-Sabah family, had concluded a protectorate agreement in 1899 that assigned responsibility for Kuwait's foreign affairs to the United Kingdom.
gulf_war: There has been widespread speculation and disagreement about the causes of the illness and the possibly related birth defects.
gulf_war: Eventually, privately contracted crews extinguished the fires, at a total cost of US$1.5 billion to Kuwait.
gulf_war: Iraqi ground forces consolidated their control of Kuwait City, then headed south and redeployed along the Saudi border.
gulf_war: 2nd Armored Division (Forward) included the 1st Battalion, 41st Infantry Regiment, the 2nd and 3rd Battalions, 66th Armor Regiment, and the 4th Battalion, 3rd Field Artillery Regiment.
gulf_war: In early July 1990, Iraq complained about Kuwait's behavior, such as not respecting their quota, and openly threatened to take military action.
gulf_war: A concern in the Western world was the significant threat Iraq posed to Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: The draining occurred in Iraq and to a smaller degree in Iran between the 1950s and 1990s to clear large areas of the marshes.
gulf_war: Iraq was known to have a nuclear weapons program; the report about it from January 1991 was partially declassified by the CIA in May 2001.
gulf_war: Once persuaded, US officials insisted on Iraqi pullout, without any linkage to other Middle Eastern problems, accepting the British view that any concession would strengthen Iraqi influence.
gulf_war: A disputed number of people were also killed during the Iraqi rocket attacks on Israel.
gulf_war: Task Force 2–16 continued the attack clearing over 21 km (13 mi) of entrenched enemy positions resulting in the capture and destruction of numerous enemy vehicles, equipment, personnel and command bunkers.
gulf_war: A long convoy of retreating Iraqi troops formed along the main Iraq–Kuwait highway.
gulf_war: This was the "bulldozer assault", wherein two brigades from the US 1st Infantry Division (Mechanized) were faced with a large and complex trench network, as part of the heavily fortified "Saddam Hussein Line".
gulf_war: The continued presence of U.S.
gulf_war: Saddam believed an anti-Iraq conspiracy was developing – Kuwait had begun talks with Iran, and Iraq's rival Syria had arranged a visit to Egypt.
gulf_war: Global Positioning System (GPS) units were relatively new at the time and were important in enabling coalition units to easily navigate across the desert.
gulf_war: However, Baker believed that Saudi Arabia should assume some of the cost of to defend it.
gulf_war: The British 1st Armoured Division fielded approximately 176 Challenger 1 tanks.
gulf_war: Somewhere around 6 million barrels (950,000 m3) of oil were lost each day.
gulf_war: After the invasion, the Iraqi military looted over $1 billion in banknotes from Kuwait's Central Bank.
gulf_war: The Marines destroyed 30 to 40 Iraqi T-72 tanks which had taken up defensive positions around the airport.
gulf_war: The resulting fires burned uncontrollably because of the dangers of sending in firefighting crews.
gulf_war: As the Scud attacks continued, the Israelis grew increasingly impatient, and considered taking unilateral military action against Iraq.
gulf_war: Its primary full strength fighting formations were the 1st Armored Division (United States), the 3rd Armored Division (United States) and the 1st Infantry Division (United States).
gulf_war: Later that evening another group of Iraqi vehicles was spotted moving towards the center of the Task Force.
gulf_war: Iraq fired missiles at Israel and at Saudi Arabia, but failed to provoke the Israeli military response it hoped would split Muslim-majority countries from the coalition.
gulf_war: For the next hour the Task Force fought several small battles with Iraqi reconnaissance units.
gulf_war: It can only mean prejudice against Iraq.
gulf_war: But we too can harm you.
gulf_war: Members of British Special Air Service Bravo Two Zero were captured while providing information about an Iraqi supply line of Scud missiles to coalition forces.
gulf_war: The Security Council issued an ultimatum to Iraq on 29 November 1990, expiring on 15 January 1991, to withdraw from Kuwait, with member-states thereafter empowered to use "all necessary means" to force withdrawal.
gulf_war: A National Security Planning Group meeting was formed, chaired by then vice president George H.
gulf_war: We were not interested in governing Iraq.
gulf_war: Some of the copiers contained concealed high-tech transmitters that revealed their positions to American electronic warfare aircraft, leading to more precise bombings.
gulf_war: However, an Iraqi unit at Kuwait International Airport appeared not to have received the message and fiercely resisted.
gulf_war: After the conflict ended, many of the stolen banknotes made their way back into circulation.
gulf_war: During a speech in a special joint session of the US Congress given on 11 September 1990, Bush summed up the reasons with the following remarks: "Within three days, 120,000 Iraqi troops with 850 tanks had poured into Kuwait and moved south to threaten Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: The coalition's advance was much swifter than US generals had expected.
gulf_war: They appeared to be Iraqi Soviet-made BTRs and tanks.
gulf_war: Two of these losses are the result of aircraft colliding with the ground while evading Iraqi ground-fired weapons.
gulf_war: Precision stand-off attacks were conducted during the night and through to the next day.
gulf_war: Within 12 hours, most resistance had ended within Kuwait, and the royal family had fled, allowing Iraq to control most of Kuwait.
gulf_war: On the 23rd, the CIA reported that Iraq had moved 30,000 troops to the Iraq–Kuwait border, and the US naval fleet in the Persian Gulf was placed on alert.
gulf_war: Some authors have called it the Second Gulf War to distinguish it from the Iran–Iraq War.
gulf_war: They encountered trenches, barbed wire, and minefields.
gulf_war: The US was concerned with Iraq's position on Israeli–Palestinian politics.
gulf_war: So how could we imagine that such a step was going to be appreciated by the Americans?
gulf_war: On 26 February, after setting 737 of Kuwait's oil wells on fire, Iraqi troops began retreating.
gulf_war: The 2nd Marine Division also faced heavy resistance during the Battle of Kuwait International Airport.
gulf_war: In the video, he asks a British boy, Stuart Lockwood, whether he is getting his milk, and goes on to say, through his interpreter, "We hope your presence as guests here will not be for too long.
gulf_war: Iraq's relations with its Arab neighbors, particularly Egypt, were degraded by mounting violence in Iraq against expatriate groups, who were well-employed during the war, by unemployed Iraqis, among them demobilized soldiers.
gulf_war: Shortly after arrival in theatre "..the battalion received, for planning, a brigade cross-boundary counter-reconnaissance mission." 1–41 Infantry was assisted by the 1st Squadron, 4th Armored Cavalry Regiment.
gulf_war: Task Force 1–41 Infantry elements dismounted and prepared to engage the enemy soldiers who occupied these well-prepared and heavily fortified bunkers.
gulf_war: The 2nd Armored Division (Forward) was assigned to the 1st Infantry Division as its third maneuver brigade.
gulf_war: Iraqi troops ransacked and looted private homes; one residence was repeatedly defecated in.
gulf_war: Following the first attacks, Israeli Air Force jets were deployed to patrol the northern airspace with Iraq.
gulf_war: The US, UK, and Soviet Union rejected it; US ambassador to the UN Thomas Pickering stated that the French proposal was unacceptable, because it went beyond Council resolutions on the Iraqi invasion.
gulf_war: Some missiles caused extensive casualties, while others caused little damage.
gulf_war: Three of the battles at Norfolk, Medina Ridge, and 73 Easting are considered among the largest tank battles in history.
gulf_war: A resident later commented: "The whole thing was violence for the sake of violence, destruction for the sake of destruction ...
gulf_war: The US military claimed a high effectiveness against Scuds at the time, but later analysis gives figures as low as 9%, with 45% of the 158 Patriot launches being against debris or false targets.
gulf_war: The operation began on 7 August 1990, when US troops were sent to Saudi Arabia, due also to the request of its monarch, King Fahd, who had called for US military assistance.
gulf_war: Marine armor units mostly consisted of the older M-60 tank.
gulf_war: In August 1990, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney committed the Canadian Forces to deploy a Naval Task Group.
gulf_war: After the Gulf War, the Kuwaiti authorities forcibly pressured nearly 200,000 Palestinians to leave Kuwait in 1991.
gulf_war: After stops in Helsinki and Moscow to smooth out Iraqi demands for a Middle-Eastern peace conference with the Soviet Union, Baker traveled to Syria to discuss its role with President Hafez Assad.
gulf_war: Acting on the Carter Doctrine policy, and out of fear the Iraqi Army could invade Saudi Arabia, Bush announced that the US would launch a "wholly defensive" mission to prevent Iraq from invading Saudi Arabia, under the codename Operation Desert Shield.
gulf_war: Marine Corps armor units would destroy hundreds of Iraqi tanks by the end of combat operations.
gulf_war: Scud missiles utilize inertial guidance which operates for the duration that the engines operate.
gulf_war: Several tank battles took place, but otherwise coalition troops encountered minimal resistance, as most Iraqi troops surrendered.
gulf_war: On 17 January, the coalition began aerial and naval bombardment of Iraq and Kuwait, which continued for five weeks.
gulf_war: The British 1st Armoured Division destroyed or isolated four Iraqi infantry divisions (the 26th, 48th, 31st, and 25th) and overran the Iraqi 52nd Armored Division in several sharp engagements.
gulf_war: VII Corps air units and artillery conducted combat operations against Iraqi defensive positions.
gulf_war: The Iraqi government hoped that many Arab states would withdraw from the Coalition, as they would be reluctant to fight alongside Israel.
gulf_war: In response, Sheikh Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah ruled the banknotes as invalid and refused to reimburse stolen notes, which became worthless because of a UN embargo.
gulf_war: To ensure the US received economic backing, James Baker went on an 11-day journey to nine countries in September 1990, which the press dubbed "The Tin Cup Trip".
gulf_war: Iraqi resistance was light, and four Americans were killed.
gulf_war: A further 11 died in detonations of coalition munitions.
gulf_war: There was some criticism of the Bush administration, as they chose to allow Saddam to remain in power instead of pushing on to capture Baghdad and overthrowing his government.
gulf_war: This was the first time since the Korean War that the Canadian Armed Forces had participated in an offensive.
gulf_war: The Arabic service of the Voice of America supported the uprising by stating that the rebellion was well supported, and that they would soon be liberated from Saddam.
gulf_war: Military buildup continued, reaching 543,000 troops, twice that used in the 2003 invasion.
gulf_war: Soon after, these helicopters and much of Iraq's military were used to fight an uprising in the south.
gulf_war: Kuwaiti aircraft scrambled to meet the invading force, but approximately 20% were lost or captured.
gulf_war: It is also estimated that over 75,000 Iraqi soldiers were wounded.
gulf_war: The US military used depleted uranium in tank kinetic energy penetrators and 20–30 mm (0.79–1.18 in) cannon ordnance.
gulf_war: There were certainly a lot of dead vehicles, but not so many dead Iraqis.
gulf_war: The success of "Operación Alfil" (English: "Operation Bishop") with more than 700 interceptions and 25,000 nautical miles (46,000 km) sailed in the theatre of operations helped to overcome the so-called "Malvinas syndrome".
gulf_war: This policy was heavily influenced by the military's experience with the Vietnam War, in which public opposition within the US grew throughout the war's course.
gulf_war: Iraq also accused Kuwait of exceeding its OPEC quotas for oil production.
gulf_war: Iraq lost close to 22 artillery battalions during the initial stages of this barrage, including the destruction of approximately 396 Iraqi artillery pieces.
gulf_war: A Harvard University study released in June 1991 predicted that there would be tens of thousands of additional Iraqi civilian deaths by the end of 1991 due to the "public health catastrophe" caused by the destruction of the country's electrical generating capacity.
gulf_war: Resolution 678, passed on 29 November 1990, gave Iraq a withdrawal deadline until 15 January 1991 and authorized "all necessary means to uphold and implement Resolution 660", and a diplomatic formulation authorizing the use of force if Iraq failed to comply.
gulf_war: The United Kingdom committed the largest contingent of any European state that participated in the war's combat operations.
gulf_war: Many international organizations such as the UN Human Rights Commission, the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq, the Wetlands International, and Middle East Watch have described the project as a political attempt to force the Marsh Arabs out of the area through water diversion tactics.
gulf_war: After this attack, the Israelis warned that if the US failed to stop the attacks, they would.
gulf_war: Marine Corps also fought the biggest tank battle in its history at Kuwait International Airport.
gulf_war: We cannot come all the way to you in the United States, but individual Arabs may reach you ...
gulf_war: In addition, the US moved to support its ally Saudi Arabia, whose importance in the region, and as a key supplier of oil, made it of considerable geopolitical importance.
gulf_war: The Task Force also captured a brigade commander, several battalion commanders, company commanders, and staff officers.
gulf_war: A report commissioned by the US Air Force estimated 10,000–12,000 Iraqi combat deaths in the air campaign, and as many as 10,000 casualties in the ground war.
gulf_war: Operating on the left flank of the US XVIII Airborne Corps, the French Army force was the Division Daguet, including troops from the French Foreign Legion.
gulf_war: Kuwait was free.
gulf_war: However, the UN subsequently spent billions rebuilding hospitals, schools, and water purification facilities throughout the country.
gulf_war: It was determined that the conflict would likely spread into Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states, but the US had little capability to defend the region.
gulf_war: The International Monetary Fund adopted two lending facilities – the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and the Compensatory & Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF).
gulf_war: Baker flew to Rome for a meeting with the Italians in which he was promised the use of military equipment, before journeying to Germany to meet with American ally Chancellor Kohl.
gulf_war: One artillery mission struck a series of Iraqi bunkers, reinforced by Iraqi T-55 tanks, in the sector of the Iraqi 25th Infantry Division.
gulf_war: Approximately 230 Israelis were injured.
gulf_war: The Gulf War was notable for some of the first large-scale uses of precision-guided munitions, and stealth aircraft, via the Lockheed F-117 Nighthawk.
gulf_war: The UN Security Council demanded Iraq's immediate withdrawal and imposed a total embargo on products from Iraq and Kuwait.
gulf_war: The British 1st Armoured Division had two brigades (the 4th and 7th) which participated in Operation Granby, the name given to the British military operations during the 1991 Gulf War.
gulf_war: Following Saddam's declaration that "binary chemical weapons" would be used on Israel if it used military force against Iraq, Washington halted part of its funding.
gulf_war: As combat operations progressed Task Force 1–41 Infantry engaged at short range multiple dug in enemy tanks in ambush positions.
gulf_war: It said the "use of measures commensurate to the specific circumstances as may be necessary ...
gulf_war: Eventually, over 400,000 people were expelled from the country, including a large number of Palestinians, because of PLO support of Saddam.
gulf_war: The general pattern was that the Iraqis would put up a short fight before surrendering.
gulf_war: By the end of combat operations on 28 February 1991, U.S.
gulf_war: The first stop was Saudi Arabia, which had already granted permission to the US to use its facilities.
gulf_war: A further 145 Americans died in non-combat accidents.
gulf_war: Iraq's debts to Kuwait amounted to $14 billion.
gulf_war: In spite of Iraqi sabre-rattling, Kuwait did not mobilize its force; the army had been stood-down on 19 July, and during the Iraqi invasion many Kuwaiti military personnel were on leave.
gulf_war: In December 1990, Iraq made a proposal to withdraw from Kuwait provided foreign troops left the region and that an agreement was reached regarding the Palestinian problem and the dismantlement of Israel's and Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.
gulf_war: Three US soldiers were killed and nine wounded, with one M2 Bradley IFV turret destroyed, but they had taken 40 prisoners and destroyed five tanks, and successfully deceived the Iraqis.
gulf_war: Iraq used Scud missiles, launching them into both Saudi Arabia and Israel.
gulf_war: I know you need funds.
gulf_war: Several times Iraqi mortars fired on Task Force 1–41 Infantry positions.
gulf_war: The plan was approved by Reagan and affirmed by the G7 leaders headed by the UK's prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, in the 10th G7 summit, held in London in June.
gulf_war: The Iraqi attack had two prongs, with the primary attack force driving south straight for Kuwait City down the main highway, and a supporting attack force entering Kuwait farther west, but then turning and driving east, cutting off Kuwait City from the country's southern half.
gulf_war: On 15 February 1991 4th Battalion of the 3rd Field Artillery Regiment fired on a trailer and a few trucks in the Iraqi sector observing American forces.
gulf_war: Separately, Sudan, also an Arab League member, aligned itself with Saddam.
gulf_war: He was met with a symbolic arrival with several dozen cars filled with people honking their horns and waving Kuwaiti flags who tried to follow the emir's convoy.
gulf_war: VII Corps had driven 260 kilometres (160 mi), captured 22,000 Iraqi soldiers, and destroyed 1,350 Iraqi tanks, 1,224 armored personnel carriers, 285 artillery pieces, 105 air defense systems, and 1,229 trucks.
gulf_war: Coalition countries responded by establishing two no-fly zones over Iraq's north and south.
gulf_war: Saudi-backed development projects were hampered by Iraq's large debts, even with the demobilization of 200,000 soldiers.
gulf_war: In order for the cartel to maintain its desired price of $18 per barrel, discipline was required.
gulf_war: Other bombs included cluster bombs, which disperse numerous submunitions, and daisy cutters, 15,000-pound bombs which can disintegrate everything within hundreds of yards.
gulf_war: The allied forces used extensive artillery fire.
gulf_war: Despite the intense combat, the Americans repulsed the Iraqis and continued to advance towards Kuwait City.
gulf_war: These are sometimes incorrectly used as the conflict's overall name, especially the US Desert Storm:
gulf_war: Elements of the 2nd Brigade, 1st Battalion 5th Cavalry of the 1st Cavalry Division of the US Army performed a direct attack into Iraq on 15 February 1991, followed by one in force on 20 February that led directly through seven Iraqi divisions which were caught off guard.
gulf_war: Bush repeated the incubator allegations on television.
gulf_war: News World Order was the title of another program in the series; it focused on the media's complicity in promoting the war, as well as Americans' reactions to the media coverage.
gulf_war: The Iraqis attacked the Dasman Palace, the Royal Residence of Kuwait's emir, Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, which was defended by the Emiri Guard supported with M-84 tanks.
gulf_war: Initially, the French operated independently under national command and control, but coordinated closely with the Americans (via CENTCOM) and Saudis.
gulf_war: Since the war, the US has had a continued presence of 5,000 troops stationed in Saudi Arabia – a figure that rose to 10,000 during the 2003 conflict in Iraq.
gulf_war: Gil Scott-Heron's song 'Work for Peace' from the album 'Spirits' was a response to the war.
gulf_war: The Iraqi 10th Armored Division was considered the best regular division in the Iraqi Army.
gulf_war: Nine British military personnel were killed in a friendly fire incident when a USAF A-10 Thunderbolt II destroyed a group of two Warrior IFVs.
gulf_war: There have also been numerous depictions in film including Jarhead (2005), which is based on US Marine Anthony Swofford's 2003 memoir of the same name.
gulf_war: The Soviet Union condemned Baghdad's aggression against Kuwait, but did not support the US and allied intervention in Iraq and tried to avert it.
gulf_war: On 24 February 1991 the 1st Cavalry Division fired its artillery against Iraqi artillery units.
gulf_war: The members of this group agreed to disperse $14 billion in development assistance.
gulf_war: Shortly after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, the organization Citizens for a Free Kuwait was formed in the US.
gulf_war: Australia contributed a Naval Task Group, which formed part of the multi-national fleet in the Persian Gulf and Gulf of Oman, under Operation Damask.
gulf_war: In 2013, 280,000 Jordanian citizens of Palestinian origin lived in Kuwait.
gulf_war: The US and UK stuck to their position there would be no negotiations until Iraq withdrew, and should not grant Iraq concessions, lest they give the impression Iraq benefited from its military campaign.
gulf_war: The Scud missiles targeting Israel were relatively ineffective, as firing at extreme range resulted in a dramatic reduction in accuracy and payload.
gulf_war: In addition to the attacks on Israel, 47 Scud missiles were fired into Saudi Arabia, and one missile was fired at Bahrain and another at Qatar.
gulf_war: Also, the uranium-235 that remains in depleted uranium emits only a small amount of low-energy gamma radiation.
gulf_war: Considered the "first space war", the US adopted satellite-based reconnaissance, communications, and GPS navigation.
gulf_war: The Iraqis suffered massive losses and lost dozens of tanks and vehicles, while US casualties were comparatively low, with a single Bradley knocked out.
gulf_war: Marine Reserve unit Bravo Company, 4th Tank Battalion, 4th Marine division was assigned to the 2nd Marine Division.
gulf_war: The UK drew the border between Kuwait and Iraq in 1922, making Iraq almost entirely landlocked.
gulf_war: TF 1–41 IN fired TOW missiles at the Iraqi formation destroying one tank.
gulf_war: to halt all inward and outward maritime shipping in order to inspect and verify their cargoes and destinations and to ensure strict implementation of resolution 661."
The US administration had at first been indecisive with an "undertone ...
gulf_war: The Royal Netherlands Air Force also deployed a Patriot missile squadron to Israel and Turkey.
gulf_war: They are inspired by America to undermine Arab interests and security." The US sent aerial refuelling planes and combat ships to the Persian Gulf in response to these threats.
gulf_war: On 25 February 1991, Iraqi forces fired a Scud missile at an American barracks in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.
gulf_war: This later became known as checkbook diplomacy.
gulf_war: The 36th TFW would be responsible for 11 confirmed Iraqi Air Force aircraft shot down during the war.
gulf_war: The primary combat vehicles of the American divisions were the M1A1 Abrams tank and the Bradley Fighting Vehicle.
gulf_war: The Dutch Defense Ministry later stated that the military use of the Patriot missile system was largely ineffective, but its psychological value for the affected populations was high.
gulf_war: Flight surgeon (later General) Rhonda Cornum was sexually assaulted by one of her captors after the Black Hawk helicopter in which she was riding was shot down while searching for a downed F-16 pilot.
gulf_war: Iraq fired 88 Scud missiles during the war's seven weeks.
gulf_war: Foreign Minister, if war starts ...
gulf_war: In a December 1999 interview with Rahimullah Yusufzai, bin Laden said he felt that Americans were "too near to Mecca" and considered this a provocation to the entire Islamic world.
gulf_war: Everyone can cause harm according to their ability and their size.
gulf_war: We should not forget that the whole period before August 2 witnessed a negative American policy towards Iraq.
gulf_war: soldiers as well, plausibly contributing to the GWS.
gulf_war: The 2016 Bollywood movie Airlift is based on the 1990 airlift of Indians from Kuwait, the evacuation of Indian citizens stranded in Kuwait during the Gulf War.
gulf_war: Amphibious exercises were carried out in the Gulf, including Operation Imminent Thunder, which involved the USS Midway and 15 other ships, 1,100 aircraft, and a thousand Marines.
gulf_war: By the time the ceasefire with Iran was signed in August 1988, Iraq was heavily debt-ridden and tensions within society were rising.
gulf_war: The Iraqis suffered the loss of over 3,000 tanks and over 2,000 other combat vehicles during these battles against the American-led coalition.
gulf_war: On 3 August 1990, the Arab League passed a resolution, which called for a solution from within the league, and warned against outside intervention.
gulf_war: We do not place America among the enemies.
gulf_war: This stance plus maneuvers and statements which have been made has encouraged the UAE and Kuwait to disregard Iraqi rights ...
gulf_war: It was decided to send British armored forces into Kuwait 15 hours ahead of schedule, and to send US forces after the Republican Guard.
gulf_war: Coalition forces pressed another 10 km (6.2 mi) into Iraqi territory, and captured their objective within three hours.
gulf_war: The details of the Hill & Knowlton public relations campaign, including the incubator testimony, were published in John R.
gulf_war: On 23 January, Iraq dumped 400 million US gallons (1,500,000 m3) of crude oil into the Persian Gulf, causing the largest offshore oil spill in history at that time.
gulf_war: This came after the Kuwaiti government formally forgave the group.
gulf_war: The US Patriot missile was used in combat for the first time.
gulf_war: The cost of the war to the United States was calculated by the US Congress in April 1992 to be $61.1 billion (equivalent to $122 billion in 2024).
gulf_war: The invasion of Kuwait was met with immediate international condemnation.
gulf_war: The Iraqi 10th and 12th Armored Divisions were also present.
gulf_war: 48 US Air Force F-15s from the 1st Fighter Wing at Langley Air Force Base, Virginia, landed in Saudi Arabia and commenced round-the-clock air patrols of the Saudi–Kuwait–Iraq border to discourage Iraqi military advances.
gulf_war: The US government refused to release its own study of the effects of the Iraqi public health crisis.
gulf_war: The 101st Airborne Division had struck 249 km (155 mi) behind enemy lines.
gulf_war: It sent a destroyer, ARA Almirante Brown (D-10), a corvette, ARA Spiro (P-43) (later replaced by another corvette, ARA Rosales (P-42)) and a supply ship, ARA Bahía San Blas (B-4) to participate on the United Nations blockade and sea control effort of the Persian Gulf.
gulf_war: In the Jan/Feb 1995 edition of Foreign Affairs, French diplomat Eric Rouleau wrote:
gulf_war: In their co-written 1998 book, A World Transformed, Bush and Brent Scowcroft argued that such a course would have fractured the alliance, and would have had many unnecessary political and human costs associated with it.
gulf_war: Your presence here, and in other places, is meant to prevent the scourge of war."
Another Iraqi proposal communicated was delivered to US national security advisor Brent Scowcroft by an unidentified Iraqi official.
gulf_war: 145 soldiers died of exploding munitions or non-combat accidents.
gulf_war: By contrast, GWS was inversely associated with higher levels of the type Q isozyme, which is more efficient at breaking down sarin than its type R counterpart.
gulf_war: Iraq was known to possess biological weapons and chemical weapons, which Saddam had used against Iranian troops during the Iran–Iraq War and his own country's Kurdish population in the Al-Anfal campaign.
gulf_war: However, a year after the war, this allegation was revealed to be a fabrication.
gulf_war: Their air support consisted of Gazelle helicopters, used for reconnaissance, and the Lynx helicopter which was comparable to the American AH-1 Cobra.
gulf_war: After finding no evidence to support it, the organization issued a retraction.
gulf_war: Iraqi forces inflicted very minimal damage on Coalition forces.
gulf_war: We know that you can harm us although we do not threaten you.
gulf_war: The only CF-18 Hornet to record an official victory during the conflict was an aircraft involved in the beginning of the Battle of Bubiyan against the Iraqi Navy.
gulf_war: These combat operations resulted in the destruction of 50 enemy tanks, 139 APCs, 30 air defense systems, 152 artillery pieces, 27 missile launchers, 108 mortars, and 548 wheeled vehicles, 61 trench lines and bunker positions, 92 dug in and open infantry targets, and 34 logistical sites.
gulf_war: Chemical and Biological Warfare-Related Dual Use Exports to Iraq and their Possible Impact on the Health Consequences of the Gulf War".
gulf_war: Some crews simply abandoned their vehicles upon realizing that they could be destroyed by guided bombs, stopping the divisions from massing for an organized attack on the town.
gulf_war: The destroyers HMCS Terra Nova and HMCS Athabaskan joined the maritime interdiction force supported by the supply ship HMCS Protecteur in Operation Friction.
gulf_war: During the Iraqi mortar attacks two American soldiers were wounded.
gulf_war: Amongst several testimonies to poor treatment, USAF Captain Richard Storr was allegedly tortured by Iraqis during the Persian Gulf War.
gulf_war: A figure was supported by Israeli sources who speak of "one to two hundred thousand Iraqi casualties." Most of the killing "took place during the ground war.
gulf_war: Task Force 1–41 Infantry was the first coalition force to breach the Saudi Arabian border on 15 February 1991 and conduct ground combat operations in Iraq engaging in direct and indirect fire fights with the enemy on 17 February 1991.
gulf_war: Land mines had been placed in areas around the oil wells, and a military cleaning of the areas was necessary before the fires could be put out.
gulf_war: Glaspie replied:
gulf_war: The United Kingdom played a major role in the Battle of Norfolk, where its forces destroyed over 200 Iraqi tanks and a large quantity of other vehicles.
gulf_war: Scud is a tactical ballistic missile that the Soviet Union developed and deployed among the forward deployed Soviet Army divisions in East Germany.
gulf_war: Another incident during the war highlighted the question of large-scale Iraqi combat deaths.
gulf_war: Eisenhower and USS Independence to the Gulf, where they were ready by 8 August.
gulf_war: They were responsible for a report which included an "infamous cruise missile that travelled down a street and turned left at a traffic light."
Alternative media outlets provided views opposing the war.
gulf_war: On 2 August 1990, Iraq, governed by Saddam Hussein, invaded neighboring Kuwait and occupied the country within two days.
gulf_war: We'd be running the country.
gulf_war: The first three of these had a strength of over 660 tanks, 660 infantry fighting vehicles, and thousands of antitank weapons, self propelled artillery, and other combat systems.
gulf_war: Petersburg Times acquired commercial Soviet satellite images which showed nothing but empty desert.
gulf_war: This attack led the way for the XVIII Airborne Corps to sweep around behind the 1st Cav and attack Iraqi forces to the west.
gulf_war: Several SAS squadrons were deployed.
gulf_war: Formerly covering an area of around 20,000 km2 (7,700 sq mi), the large complex of wetlands was 90% drained before the 2003 Invasion of Iraq.
gulf_war: He threatened force against Kuwait and the UAE, saying: "The policies of some Arab rulers are American ...
gulf_war: US troops represented about 74% of the combined force, and the global cost was therefore higher.
gulf_war: Another enemy platoon, including six vehicles, was reported as being to the northeast of the Task Force.
gulf_war: This movement's left flank was protected by the French Division Daguet.
gulf_war: In May 1984, President Reagan was briefed on the project conclusions by William Flynn Martin who had served as the head of the NSC staff that organized the study.
gulf_war: In exchange for Iran's support for the US-led intervention, the US promised Iran to end US opposition to World Bank loans to Iran.
gulf_war: He requested an "immediate freeze of all boycott and siege decisions" and a normalization of relations with Iraq.
gulf_war: will you attack Israel?" His response was: "Yes, absolutely, yes."
Five hours after the first attacks, Iraq's state radio broadcast declared that "The dawn of victory nears as this great showdown begins." Iraq fired eight missiles the next day.
gulf_war: France also deployed several combat aircraft and naval units.
gulf_war: From 15 to 20 February, the Battle of Wadi al-Batin took place inside Iraq; this was the first of two attacks by 1 Battalion 5th Cavalry of the 1st Cavalry Division.
gulf_war: Meanwhile, forces from Arab states advanced into Kuwait from the east, encountering little resistance and suffering few casualties.
gulf_war: The same day the 2nd Brigade, 1st Cavalry Division with the 1st Battalion, 5th Cavalry, 1st Battalion, 32nd Armor, and the 1st Battalion, 8th Cavalry destroyed Iraqi bunkers and combat vehicles in the sector of the Iraqi 25th Infantry Division.
gulf_war: Iraq and Libya were the only Arab League states that opposed the resolution for Iraq to withdraw; the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) opposed it as well.
gulf_war: Germany and Japan provided financial assistance and donated military hardware, although they did not send direct military assistance.
gulf_war: The movement's right flank was protected by the United Kingdom's 1st Armoured Division.
gulf_war: During the nationwide uprisings against the Ba'athist Iraqi government that directly followed the end of the Gulf War in March and April, an estimated 25,000 to 100,000 Iraqis were killed, overwhelmingly civilians.
gulf_war: Iraq's government made no secret that it would attack Israel if invaded.
gulf_war: The Kuwaiti resistance's casualty rate far exceeded that of the coalition military forces and Western hostages.
gulf_war: Some felt that the war was an internal Arab affair or did not want to increase US influence in the Middle East.
gulf_war: France dropped this proposal when it found "no tangible sign of interest" from Baghdad.
gulf_war: The pre-war strength of the Kuwait Air Force was around 2,200 Kuwaiti personnel, with 80 fixed-wing aircraft and 40 helicopters.
gulf_war: If you use pressure, we will deploy pressure and force.
gulf_war: Specific buildings in downtown Baghdad could be bombed while journalists in their hotels watched cruise missiles fly by.
gulf_war: A pact of non-interference and non-aggression was signed between the countries, followed by a Kuwaiti-Iraqi deal for Iraq to supply Kuwait with water for drinking and irrigation, although a request for Kuwait to lease Iraq Umm Qasr was rejected.
gulf_war: After the decisive Iraqi victory, Saddam initially installed a puppet regime known as the "Provisional Government of Free Kuwait" before installing his cousin Ali Hassan al-Majid as Kuwait's governor on 8 August.
gulf_war: A prolonged war in the region would induce much higher oil prices and threaten the recovery of the world economy, which was just beginning to gain momentum.
gulf_war: Its most notable participants were its elite Republican Guard Divisions Tawakalna, Medina, Hammurabi, and Adnan.
gulf_war: Bravo Company destroyed a total of 119 enemy vehicles and took over 800 POWs by the end of combat operations.
gulf_war: On 6 August, Resolution 661 placed economic sanctions on Iraq.
gulf_war: This prompted a reexamination by Amnesty International, which had promoted an account alleging even greater numbers of babies torn from incubators than the fake testimony.
gulf_war: The operations were designed to prevent any possible Israeli intervention.
gulf_war: Analysts refer to it as the "first space war" for the US usage of satellite-based reconnaissance, communications, and navigation.
gulf_war: Within hours of the invasion, Kuwait and US delegations requested a meeting of the UN Security Council, which passed Resolution 660, condemning the invasion and demanding a withdrawal of Iraqi troops.
gulf_war: The coalition promised to deploy Patriot missiles to defend Israel if it refrained from responding to the Scud attacks.
gulf_war: So the question became "How do we stop the killing."
gulf_war: The war's ground phase was officially designated Operation Desert Saber.
gulf_war: In response to the threat of Scuds on Israel, the US rapidly sent a Patriot missile air defense artillery battalion to Israel along with two batteries of MIM-104 Patriot missiles for the protection of civilians.
