hiking: The Leave No Trace movement offers a set of guidelines for low-impact hiking: "Leave nothing but footprints.
hiking: The Abraham Path is a cultural route believed to have been the path of Abraham's journey across the Ancient Near East.
hiking: A significant example is Johann Gottfried Seume, who set out on foot from Leipzig to Sicily in 1801, and returned to Leipzig via Paris after nine months.
hiking: Numerous travellers explored Europe on foot in the last third of the 18th century and recorded their experiences.
hiking: The AT was completed in August 1937, running from Maine to Georgia.
hiking: There are also numerous references to Petrarch as an "alpinist", although Mont Ventoux is not a hard climb, and is not usually considered part of the Alps.
hiking: Many follow its routes as a form of spiritual path or retreat for their spiritual growth.
hiking: The Scottish-born, American naturalist John Muir (1838 –1914), was another important early advocate of the preservation of wilderness in the United States.
hiking: 1010 – 1075) climbed his beloved mountain oftener than usual".
hiking: Because ropes, ladders and iron hooks were used during the ascent, this event is widely recognized as being the birth of mountaineering.
hiking: In the Middle East, the Jordan Trail is a 650 km (400 miles) long hiking trail in Jordan established in 2015 by the Jordan Trail Association.
hiking: However, the idea of taking a walk in the countryside only really developed during the 18th century in Europe, and arose because of changing attitudes to the landscape and nature associated with the Romantic movement.
hiking: The path was established in 2007 as a pilgrimage route between Urfa, Turkey, possibly his birthplace, and his final destination of the desert of Negev.
hiking: Hypothermia is a danger for all hikers and especially inexperienced hikers.
hiking: The Inca Trail to Machu Picchu in Peru is very popular and a permit is required.
hiking: New York: Viking.
hiking: The original concept of the trail was to establish a single long distance trekking trail from the east end to the west end of Nepal that includes a total of roughly 1,700 kilometres (1,100 mi) of path.
hiking: However, the land in England, particularly around the urban areas of Manchester and Sheffield, was privately owned and trespass was illegal.
hiking: Crampons may be needed in icy conditions, and an ice axe is recommended on steep, snow covered paths.
hiking: Great Hiking Trails of the World.
hiking: Walkers in high mountains may encounter hazardous snow and ice conditions.
hiking: One of the first such clubs was 'Sunday Tramps' founded by Leslie White in 1879.
hiking: The spiritual quality and enthusiasm toward nature expressed in his writings inspired others, including presidents and congressmen, to take action to help preserve large areas of undeveloped countryside.
hiking: It now extends for more than 1,100 km (680 miles) today.
hiking: Cross country skiing is a form of winter hiking and in Norway the Norwegian Trekking Association maintains over 400 huts stretching across thousands of kilometres of trails which hikers can use in the summer and skiers in the winter.
hiking: Hiking can be hazardous because of terrain, inclement weather, potential to get lost, or pre-existing medical conditions.
hiking: The first ascent of any technical difficulty to be officially verified took place on June 26, 1492, when Antoine de Ville, a chamberlain and military engineer for Charles VIII, King of France, was ordered to ascend Mont Aiguille.
hiking: In Africa a major trekking destination is Mount Kilimanjaro, a dormant volcano in Tanzania, which is the highest mountain in Africa and the highest single free-standing mountain in the world: 5,895 metres (19,341 ft) above sea level and about 4,900 metres (16,100 ft) above its plateau base.
hiking: In Northern England, including the Lake District and Yorkshire Dales, fell walking describes hill or mountain walks, as fell is the common word for both features in these locations.
hiking: Petrarch recounts that on April 26, 1336, with his brother and two servants, he climbed to the top of Mont Ventoux, which is 1,912 meters (6,273 ft) tall.
hiking: The French long-distance path GR 65 (of the Grande Randonnée network), is an important variant route of the old Christian pilgrimage way.
hiking: This typically occurs only above 2,500 metres (8,000 ft), though some are affected at lower altitudes.
hiking: Walking tours were popular in the 19th century.
hiking: Year-round glaciers are potentially hazardous.
hiking: The effort to improve access led after World War II to the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949, and in 1951 to the creation of the first national park in the UK, the Peak District National Park.
hiking: In 1916, the National Park Service was created to protect national parks and monuments.
hiking: The Grande Randonnée (France), Grote Routepaden, or Lange-afstand-wandelpaden (The Netherlands), Grande Rota (Portugal), Gran Recorrido (Spain) is a network of long-distance footpaths in Europe, mostly in France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Spain.
hiking: Despite attempts on the part of the police to prevent the trespass from going ahead, it was successfully achieved due to massive publicity.
hiking: In 1938, one of the first long-distance hiking trails in Europe, the Hungarian National Blue Trail, was established.
hiking: The proposed trail will link together a range of the less explored tourism destinations of Nepal's mountain region.
hiking: The crossing of rivers may be dangerous and requires special techniques.
hiking: Ramble On: A History of Hiking.
hiking: This 8.5-mile path is the oldest continually used hiking trail in the United States.
hiking: It was founded to protect the trails and mountains in the northeastern United States.
hiking: Stevenson also published in 1876 his famous essay "Walking Tours".
hiking: It takes its name from the ancient civilization, which once ruled the area.
hiking: In extreme cases of bushwhacking, where the vegetation is so dense that human passage is impeded, a machete is used to clear a pathway.
hiking: According to the Kilimanjaro National Park Authority, 467,190 travelers visited Mount Kilimanjaro between 2013 and 2022, with over 45,000 climbers recorded in 2023.
hiking: Eventually, there were similar clubs formed in the Midwest and following the Appalachian range.
hiking: However, in bear country, hikers use intentional noise-making as a safety precaution to avoid startling bears.
hiking: Mount Ventoux was climbed by Jean Buridan, on his way to the papal court in Avignon before the year 1334, "in order to make some meteorological observations".
hiking: The equipment required depends on a variety of factors, such as terrain, climate and time of year.
hiking: Common terms for hiking used by New Zealanders are tramping (particularly for overnight and longer trips), walking or bushwalking.
hiking: Access to Mountains bills, that would have legislated the public's 'right to roam' across some private land, were periodically presented to Parliament from 1884 to 1932 without success.
hiking: In New Zealand a long, vigorous walk or hike is called tramping.
hiking: John Keats, who belonged to the next generation of Romantic poets, began in June 1818 a walking tour of Scotland, Ireland, and the Lake District with his friend Charles Armitage Brown.
hiking: Multi-day hikes are referred to as backpacking, that can involve camping, mountain huts, or using other forms of accommodation.
hiking: Weather does not need to be very cold to be dangerous since ordinary rain or mist has a strong cooling effect.
hiking: Petrarch's implication that he was the first to climb mountains for pleasure, and Burckhardt's insistence on Petrarch's sensitivity to nature have been often repeated since.
hiking: The term bushwalking is endemic to Australia.
hiking: Other early examples of individuals hiking or climbing mountains for pleasure include the Roman Emperor, Hadrian, who ascended Mount Etna during a return trip from Greece in 125 CE.
hiking: At times hiking may involve scrambling, as well as the use of ropes, ice axes and crampons and the skill to properly use them.
hiking: He is today referred to as the "Father of the National Parks".
hiking: When two groups of hikers meet on a steep trail, a custom has developed in some areas whereby the group moving uphill has the right-of-way.
hiking: These clubs established and upheld their own paths during the 19th and 20th centuries, prioritizing the development of extended hiking routes.
hiking: It is over 500 km (310 mi) in length and stretches from Hisarönü (Ovacık), near Fethiye, to Geyikbayırı in Konyaaltı about 20 km (12 mi) from Antalya.
hiking: Solnit, Rebecca (2000).
hiking: ISBN 978-1-78168-270-8.
hiking: The British National Trail the North Downs Way closely follows that of the Pilgrims' Way to Canterbury.
hiking: Hiking in winter offers additional opportunities, challenges and hazards.
hiking: New York: Rizzoli.
hiking: It was conceived by Briton Kate Clow, who lives in Turkey.
hiking: Walking for pleasure developed in Europe during the eighteenth century.
hiking: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
hiking: Natural environments are often fragile and may be accidentally damaged and some species are very sensitive to the presence of humans, especially around mating season.
hiking: Potential hazards involving physical ailments may include dehydration, frostbite, hypothermia, sunburn, sunstroke, or diarrhea, and such injuries as ankle sprains, or broken bones.
hiking: "Hiking" is the preferred term in Canada and the United States; the term "walking" is used in these countries for shorter, particularly urban walks.
hiking: Boots, however, are still common in mountainous terrain.
hiking: The influence of British and European Romanticism reached North America through the transcendentalist movement, and both Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803–1882) and Henry David Thoreau (1817–1862) were important influences on the outdoors movement in North America.
hiking: Conrad Gessner, a 16th-century Swiss physician, botanist and naturalist, is widely recognized as being the first person to hike and climb for sheer pleasure.
hiking: See summary of contents
Berger, Karen (2017).
hiking: This implicit claim of Petrarch and Burckhardt, that Petrarch was the first to climb a mountain for pleasure since antiquity, was disproven by Lynn Thorndike in 1943.
hiking: Other recommend items are a hat, gloves, and an emergency blanket.
hiking: The establishment of this and similar national parks helped to improve access for all outdoors enthusiasts.
hiking: Cambridge University Press.
hiking: Kill nothing but time.
hiking: In Latin America, Peru and Chile are important hiking destinations.
hiking: Jakob Burckhardt, in The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy (in German in 1860) declared Petrarch "a truly modern man", because of the significance of nature for his "receptive spirit"; even if he did not yet have the skill to describe nature.
hiking: Thoreau's writing on nature and on walking include the posthumously published "Walking" (1862)".
hiking: Hikers have traditionally worn sturdy hiking boots for stability, however, in recent decades trail running shoes have become more popular.
hiking: Nowadays, long-distance hikes (walking tours) are often undertaken along long-distance paths, including the National Trails in England and Wales, the Kungsleden (Sweden) and the National Trail System in the United States.
hiking: Yale University Press.
hiking: However, the Mountain Access Bill that was passed in 1939 was opposed by many walkers' organizations, including The Ramblers, who felt that it did not sufficiently protect their rights, and it was eventually repealed.
hiking: Paths from the cities of Tours, Vézelay, and Le Puy-en-Velay meet at Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port.
hiking: Finally, in 1932, the Rambler's Right Movement organized a mass trespass on Kinder Scout in Derbyshire.
hiking: In high mountains a further danger is altitude sickness.
hiking: Another famous early exponent of walking for pleasure was the English poet William Wordsworth.
hiking: They would escape the confines of the city by rambling about in the countryside.
hiking: "Haller, Albrecht von".
hiking: It is especially hazardous in high mountains, crossing rivers and glaciers, and when there is snow and ice.
hiking: Snowshoes and hiking poles, or cross country skis are useful aid for those hiking in deep snow.
hiking: Numerous modern hiking trail follow such ancient routes.
hiking: Researchers have noted that hiking may motivate individuals seeking weight loss or weight management, mainly because of its diverse nature and also by the associated fun and enjoyment of life found through hiking with others (group hiking).
hiking: Established in 1876, the Appalachian Mountain Club has the distinction of being the oldest hiking club in America.
hiking: A GPS navigation device can also be helpful and trekking poles are also recommended, especially when carrying a heavy backpack.
hiking: The word hiking is also often used in the UK, along with rambling, hillwalking, and fell walking (a term mostly used for hillwalking in northern England).
hiking: Fire is a particular source of danger.
hiking: Doran, Jeffrey J.
hiking: It is a common activity with numerous hiking organizations worldwide.
hiking: Published in 1778 the book was a major success.
hiking: In the late 20th century, there has been a proliferation of official and unofficial long-distance routes, which mean that hikers now are more likely to refer to using a long-distance way (Britain), trail (US), The Grande Randonnée (France), etc., than setting out on a walking tour.
hiking: The French Way is the most popular of the routes and runs from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port on the French side of the Pyrenees to Roncesvalles on the Spanish side and then another 780 kilometres (480 mi) on to Santiago de Compostela through the major cities of Pamplona, Logroño, Burgos and León.
hiking: There are extensive networks in other European countries of long-distance trails, as well as in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Nepal, and to a lesser extent other Asiatic countries, like Turkey, Israel, and Jordan.
hiking: Trekking describes multi-day hiking in mountainous regions.
hiking: Hikers are advised not to feed wild animals, because they will become a danger to other hikers if they become habituated to human food, and may have to be killed, or relocated.
hiking: Lightning is also a threat, especially on high ground.
hiking: The 14th-century Italian poet Petrarch is frequently mentioned as an early example of someone hiking.
hiking: However, some have suggested that Petrarch's climb was fictional.
hiking: A typical walk on the Camino francés takes at least four weeks, allowing for one or two rest days on the way.
hiking: London, New York: Verso.
hiking: Wanderlust: a history of walking.
hiking: Because hikers may come into conflict with other users of the land or may harm the natural environment, hiking etiquette has developed.
hiking: ISBN 978-0-8147-0502-5.
hiking: He petitioned the U.S.
hiking: A Philosophy of Walking.
hiking: In 2009, Iran imprisoned three Americans for hiking across the Iran-Iraq border.
hiking: Chamberlin, Silas (2016).
hiking: National parks are often important hiking destinations, such as National Parks of England and Wales; of Canada; of New Zealand, of South Africa, etc.
hiking: The dangerous circumstances hikers can face include specific accidents or physical ailments.
hiking: This included the very short-lived (first) Rocky Mountain Club in 1875, the White Mountain Club of Portland in 1873, the Alpine Club of Williamstown in 1863, and the Exploring Circle, which was established by four men from Lynn, Massachusetts in 1850.
hiking: Gros, Frédéric (2014).
hiking: For longer routes in snowy conditions, hikers may resort to ski touring, using special skis and boots.
hiking: The Sierra Club, which he founded, is now one of the most important conservation organizations in the United States.
hiking: Hikers are advised to verify whether tour operators adhere to fair treatment practices for their support crews, including providing proper wages and working conditions for porters.
hiking: In the United Kingdom and Ireland, the word "walking" describes all forms of walking, whether it is a walk in a park or backpacking in the Alps.
hiking: Some travel the Camino on bicycle or on horseback.
hiking: Going south to north it is more straightforward and a crossing can be made, if advanced arrangements are made with Canada Border Services.
hiking: Prior to its founding, four other hiking clubs had already been established in America.
hiking: Although not a hiking club in the same sense as the clubs that would emerge later, the National Park Service recognizes the Exploring Circle as being "the first hiking club in New England." All four of these clubs would disband within a few years of their founding.
hiking: In previous centuries long walks were undertaken as part of religious pilgrimages and this tradition continues throughout the world.
hiking: And Israel has been described as "a trekker's paradise" with over 9,656 km (6,000 miles) of trails.
hiking: Other threats include attacks by animals (e.g., bears, snakes, and insects such as ticks that carry  Lyme) or contact with noxious plants (e.g., poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac.
hiking: Within the Schengen Area, which includes most of the E.U., and associated nations like Switzerland and Norway, there are no impediments to crossing by path, and borders are not always obvious.
hiking: The Great Himalaya Trail is a route across the Himalayas.
hiking: In southwestern Turkey the Lycian Way is a marked long-distance trail around part of the coast of ancient Lycia.
hiking: Various organizations recommend that hikers generally avoid making loud sounds, such as shouting or loud conversation, playing music, or the use of mobile phones.
hiking: The longest hiking trail in Chile is the informal 3,000 km (1,850 mi) Greater Patagonia Trail that was created by a non-governmental initiative.
hiking: An early American example of a book that describes an extended walking tour is the naturalist John Muir's A Thousand Mile Walk to the Gulf (1916), a posthumously published account of a long botanizing walk, undertaken in 1867.
hiking: Despite clubs such as the Appalachian Mountain Club, hiking during the early twentieth century was still primarily in New England, San Francisco, and the Pacific Northwest.
hiking: His famous poem Tintern Abbey was inspired by a visit to the Wye Valley made during a walking tour of Wales in 1798 with his sister Dorothy Wordsworth.
hiking: The Pacific Crest Trail ("PCT") was first explored in the 1930s by the YMCA hiking groups and was eventually registered as a complete border to border trail from Mexico to Canada.
hiking: Hiking sometimes involves bushwhacking and is sometimes referred to as such.
hiking: James, has become more recently the source for a number of long-distance hiking routes.
hiking: The Australian term bushwalking refers to both on and off-trail hiking.
hiking: In 1790, William Wordsworth set off on an extended tour of France, Switzerland, and Germany, which he describes in his autobiographical poem The Prelude (1850).
hiking: Hiking has also been noted as being more economically viable for exercise compared to other alternatives.
hiking: In earlier times walking generally indicated poverty and was also associated with vagrancy.
hiking: New York: New York University Press.
hiking: ISBN 978-0-847-86093-7.
hiking: This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
hiking: Thomas West, a Scottish priest, popularized the idea of walking for pleasure in his guide to the Lake District of 1778.
hiking: Many hikers adopt the philosophy of Leave No Trace, following strict practices on dealing with food waste, and other impacts on the environment.
hiking: Take nothing but photos.
hiking: Rambling clubs soon sprang up in the north and began politically campaigning for the legal 'right to roam'.
hiking: In the mountains of Norway, Sweden, Austria, Slovenia, Switzerland, Germany, France, and Italy walking tours can be made from 'hut-to-hut', using an extensive system of mountain huts.
hiking: His earlier essay  "A Walk to Wachusett" (1842) describes a four-day walking tour Thoreau took with a companion from Concord, Massachusetts to the summit of Mount Wachusett, Princeton, Massachusetts and back.
hiking: More and more people undertook walking tours through the 19th century, of which the most famous is probably Robert Louis Stevenson's journey through the Cévennes in France with a donkey, recorded in his Travels with a Donkey (1879).
hiking: In 1921, Benton MacKaye, a forester, conceived the idea of what would become America's first National Scenic Trail, the Appalachian Trail (AT).
hiking: On Foot, A History of Walking.
hiking: Early examples of long-distance paths include the Appalachian Trail in the US and the Pennine Way in Britain.
hiking: An early example of an interest in hiking in the United States is Abel Crawford and his son Ethan's clearing of a trail to the summit of Mount Washington, New Hampshire in 1819.
hiking: Risk factors include a prior episode of altitude sickness, a high degree of activity, and a rapid increase in elevation.
hiking: It is illegal to cross into the US on the Pacific Crest Trail from Canada.
hiking: The ancient pilgrimage, the Camino de Santiago, or Way of St.
hiking: A day hike refers to a hike that can be completed in a single day.
hiking: On the Trail: A History of American Hiking.
hiking: Amazon Digital Services LLC – Kdp.
hiking: This is a feat which he undertook for recreation rather than necessity.
hiking: Translated by Howe, John.
hiking: In 1275, Peter III of Aragon claimed to have reached the summit of Pic du Canigou, a 9134-foot mountain located near the southern tip of France.
hiking: Hiking a long-distance trail from end-to-end is also referred to as trekking or thru-hiking.
hiking: Congress for the National Park bill that was passed in 1890, establishing Yosemite and Sequoia National Parks.
hiking: As interest grew hiking culture was spread throughout the nation.
hiking: A hike is a long, vigorous walk, usually on trails or footpaths in the countryside.
hiking: The subgenre of travel writing produced many classics in the subsequent 20th century.
hiking: The first national grouping, the Federation of Rambling Clubs, was formed in London in 1905 and was heavily patronized by the peerage.
hiking: Long hikes as part of a religious pilgrimage have existed for a much longer time.
hiking: Hiking means walking outdoors on a trail or off-trail for recreational purposes.
hiking: Wordsworth's friend Coleridge was another keen walker and in the autumn of 1799, he and Wordsworth undertook a three-week tour of the Lake District.
hiking: The exploit is described in a celebrated letter addressed to his friend and confessor, the Augustinian friar Dionigi di Borgo San Sepolcro, composed some time after the fact.
hiking: In earlier times people mainly hiked for practical reasons, or on religious pilgrimages.
hiking: ISBN 979-8-2782-5927-5.
hiking: This specifically refers to difficult walking through dense forest, undergrowth, or bushes where forward progress requires pushing vegetation aside.
hiking: The Mountaineers club recommends a list of "Ten Essentials" equipment for hiking, including a compass, sunglasses, sunscreen, a head lamp, a first aid kit, a fire starter, and a knife.
hiking: Organized hiking clubs emerged in Europe at approximately the same time as official hiking trails.
hiking: The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 considerably extended the right to roam in England and Wales.
hiking: Due to industrialisation in England, people began to migrate to the cities where living standards were often cramped and unsanitary.
hiking: This is a network of pilgrims' ways leading to the shrine of the apostle Saint James the Great in the cathedral of Santiago de Compostela in Galicia in northwestern Spain.
hiking: Keep nothing but memories".
