hydrology: The water in lakes, rivers, and aquifers then either evaporates back to the atmosphere or eventually flows back to the ocean, completing a cycle.
hydrology: Soil moisture can be measured in various ways; by capacitance probe, time domain reflectometer or tensiometer.
hydrology: "Groundwater Hydrology".
hydrology: In addition, water quality is affected by the interaction of dissolved oxygen with organic material and various chemical transformations that may take place.
hydrology: Mariotte combined velocity and river cross-section measurements to obtain a discharge value, again in the Seine.
hydrology: Water movement is a significant means by which other materials, such as soil, gravel, boulders or pollutants, are transported from place to place.
hydrology: Conceptual models link simplified representations of the hydrological processes in an area, whereas deterministic models seek to resolve as much of the physics of a system as possible.
hydrology: The layer that is already saturated provides a resistance that is proportional to its thickness, while that plus the depth of water above the soil provides the driving force (hydraulic head).
hydrology: Water resources engineering - application of hydrological and hydraulic principles to the planning, development, and management of water resources for beneficial human use.
hydrology: There are a number of geophysical methods for characterizing aquifers.
hydrology: When making assessments of how often relatively rare events will occur, analyses are made in terms of the return period of such events.
hydrology: Models based on process descriptions.
hydrology: Marcus Vitruvius, in the first century BC, described a philosophical theory of the hydrologic cycle, in which precipitation falling in the mountains infiltrated the Earth's surface and led to streams and springs in the lowlands.
hydrology: Horton, and C.V.
hydrology: Other water-related fields
Oceanography is the more general study of water in the oceans and estuaries.
hydrology: Other quantities of interest include the average flow in a river, in a year or by season.
hydrology: Part of the hazard module in catastrophe modeling.
hydrology: Domains of hydrology include hydrometeorology, surface hydrology, hydrogeology, drainage-basin management, and water quality.
hydrology: Aquifers are also described in terms of hydraulic conductivity, storativity and transmissivity.
hydrology: Hydrology studies the availability of those resources, but usually not their uses.
hydrology: Higher temperatures reduce viscosity, increasing infiltration.
hydrology: Pioneers of the modern science of hydrology include Pierre Perrault, Edme Mariotte and Edmund Halley.
hydrology: Using various analytical methods and scientific techniques, they collect and analyze data to help solve water related problems such as environmental preservation, natural disasters, and water management.
hydrology: Remote sensing of hydrologic processes can provide information on locations where in situ sensors may be unavailable or sparse.
hydrology: Within this category, models can be divided into conceptual and deterministic.
hydrology: It is partly affected by humidity, which can be measured by a sling psychrometer.
hydrology: Hydrologists are scientists studying earth or environmental science, civil or environmental engineering, and physical geography.
hydrology: Real-time flood forecasting, flood warning, Flood Frequency Analysis
Designing irrigation schemes and managing agricultural productivity.
hydrology: Typically, such models contain representations of surface runoff, subsurface flow, evapotranspiration, and channel flow, but they can be far more complicated.
hydrology: Providing drinking water.
hydrology: Ancient Egyptians were some of the first to employ hydrology in their engineering and agriculture, inventing a form of water management known as basin irrigation.
hydrology: MIT OpenCourseWare.
hydrology: Some of the water is absorbed, and the rest percolates down to the water table.
hydrology: Aqueducts were built by the Greeks and Romans, while history shows that the Chinese built irrigation and flood control works.
hydrology: Hydroinformatics is the adaptation of information technology to hydrology and water resources applications.
hydrology: Hydrogeology is the study of the presence and movement of groundwater.
hydrology: They are primarily used for hydrological prediction and for understanding hydrological processes, within the general field of scientific modeling.
hydrology: Infiltration is the process by which water enters the soil.
hydrology: One of the major current concerns in hydrologic research is "Prediction in Ungauged Basins" (PUB), i.e.
hydrology: Analyzing the impacts of antecedent moisture on sanitary sewer systems.
hydrology: The infiltration capacity, the maximum rate at which the soil can absorb water, depends on several factors.
hydrology: Compaction reduces the porosity and the pore sizes.
hydrology: A practitioner of hydrology is called a hydrologist.
hydrology: Determining the water balance of a region.
hydrology: Detailed studies of evaporation involve boundary layer considerations as well as momentum, heat flux, and energy budgets.
hydrology: Models based on data.
hydrology: Drainage basin management covers water storage, in the form of reservoirs, and floods protection.
hydrology: Statistical information is utilized to formulate operating rules for large dams forming part of systems which include agricultural, industrial and residential demands.
hydrology: Estimating the water resource potential of river basins.
hydrology: Hydrological models are simplified, conceptual representations of a part of the hydrologic cycle.
hydrology: Water changes its state of being several times throughout this cycle.
hydrology: Meteorology is the more general study of the atmosphere and of weather, including precipitation as snow and rainfall.
hydrology: There are also problems in characterizing the vadose zone (unsaturated zone).
hydrology: Sources of remote sensing include land-based sensors, airborne sensors and satellite sensors which can capture microwave, thermal and near-infrared data or use lidar, for example.
hydrology: Assessing the impacts of natural and anthropogenic environmental change on water resources.
hydrology: Recent research in hydrological modeling tries to have a more global approach to the understanding of the behavior of hydrologic systems to make better predictions and to face the major challenges in water resources management.
hydrology: Mesopotamian towns were protected from flooding with high earthen walls.
hydrology: These models can be subdivided into single-event models and continuous simulation models.
hydrology: Other topics include chemical transport as part of surface water, sediment transport and erosion.
hydrology: One of the important areas of hydrology is the interchange between rivers and aquifers.
hydrology: It covers the biological, chemical, physical, geological, and other attributes of all inland waters (running and standing waters, both fresh and saline, natural or man-made).
hydrology: By measuring rainfall, runoff, and drainage area, Perrault showed that rainfall was sufficient to account for the flow of the Seine.
hydrology: (See also GIS and hydrology)
hydrology: Isotope hydrology is the study of the isotopic signatures of water.
hydrology: It involves assessing water availability, quality, and demand; designing and operating water infrastructure; and implementing strategies for sustainable water management.
hydrology: Direct measurement of evaporation can be obtained using Simon's evaporation pan.
hydrology: Hydrology considers quantifying surface water flow and solute transport, although the treatment of flows in large rivers is sometimes considered as a distinct topic of hydraulics or hydrodynamics.
hydrology: Of particular importance were Leroy Sherman's unit hydrograph, the infiltration theory of Robert E.
hydrology: These clouds drift over the land and produce rain.
hydrology: Mitigating and predicting flood, landslide and Drought risk.
hydrology: The rainwater flows into lakes, rivers, or aquifers.
hydrology: With the adoption of a more scientific approach, Leonardo da Vinci and Bernard Palissy independently reached an accurate representation of the hydrologic cycle.
hydrology: Water resources management.
hydrology: Designing sewers and urban drainage systems.
hydrology: The most vivid image of this is in the evaporation of water from the ocean, which forms clouds.
hydrology: Hydrology considers evaporation of various forms: from water surfaces; as transpiration
from plant surfaces in natural and agronomic ecosystems.
hydrology: In hydrology, studies of water quality concern organic and inorganic compounds, and both dissolved and sediment material.
hydrology: Predicting geomorphologic changes, such as erosion or sedimentation.
hydrology: Methods for measuring flow once the water has reached a river include the stream gauge (see: discharge), and tracer techniques.
hydrology: It was not until the 17th century that hydrologic variables began to be quantified.
hydrology: Determining the agricultural water balance.
hydrology: Measurements of water quality may involve either in-situ methods, in which analyses take place on-site, often automatically, and laboratory-based analyses and may include microbiological analysis.
hydrology: Hydrology.nl – Portal to international hydrology and water resources
Decision tree to choose an uncertainty method for hydrological and hydraulic modelling (archived 1 June 2013)
Experimental Hydrology Wiki
hydrology: Halley showed that the evaporation from the Mediterranean Sea was sufficient to account for the outflow of rivers flowing into the sea.
hydrology: in basins where no or only very few data exist.
hydrology: Theis' aquifer test/equation describing well hydraulics.
hydrology: Limnology is the study of lakes, rivers and wetlands ecosystems.
hydrology: Two major types of hydrological models can be distinguished:
hydrology: Surface water flow can include flow both in recognizable river channels and otherwise.
hydrology: The 19th century saw development in groundwater hydrology, including Darcy's law, the Dupuit-Thiem well formula, and Hagen-Poiseuille's capillary flow equation.
hydrology: Other methods include solute sampling and geophysical methods.
hydrology: Assessing contaminant transport risk and establishing environmental policy guidelines.
hydrology: Advances in the 18th century included the Bernoulli piezometer and Bernoulli's equation, by Daniel Bernoulli, and the Pitot tube, by Henri Pitot.
hydrology: By analyzing the statistical properties of hydrologic records, such as rainfall or river flow, hydrologists can estimate future hydrologic phenomena.
hydrology: An example of such an aspect is the well-known behavior that a catchment will respond much more quickly and strongly when it is already wet than when it is dry.
hydrology: Water resources are sources of water that are useful or potentially useful.
hydrology: Ecohydrology is the study of interactions between organisms and the hydrologic cycle.
hydrology: Calculation of Evapotranspiration
Calculating surface runoff and precipitation.
hydrology: These estimates are important for engineers and economists so that proper risk analysis can be performed to influence investment decisions in future infrastructure and to determine the yield reliability characteristics of water supply systems.
hydrology: Parts of hydrology concern developing methods for directly measuring these flows or amounts of water, while others concern modeling these processes either for scientific knowledge or for making a prediction in practical applications.
hydrology: Designing bridges.
hydrology: Designing dams for water supply or hydroelectric power generation.
hydrology: Since the 1950s, hydrology has been approached with a more theoretical basis than in the past, facilitated by advances in the physical understanding of hydrological processes and by the advent of computers and especially geographic information systems (GIS).
hydrology: Since the 1960s rather complex mathematical models have been developed, facilitated by the availability of high-speed computers.
hydrology: It also enables observations over large spatial extents.
hydrology: It is also affected by the presence of snow, hail, and ice and can relate to dew, mist and fog.
hydrology: Water quality includes the chemistry of water in rivers and lakes, both of pollutants and natural solutes.
hydrology: Ground water is water beneath Earth's surface, often pumped for drinking water.
hydrology: Oceanography and meteorology are not included because water is only one of many important aspects within those fields.
hydrology: Measurements here can be made using a piezometer.
hydrology: Hydrometeorology is the study of the transfer of water and energy between land and water body surfaces and the lower atmosphere.
hydrology: These models are black box systems, using mathematical and statistical concepts to link a certain input (for instance rainfall) to the model output (for instance runoff).
hydrology: These models try to represent the physical processes observed in the real world.
hydrology: Problems in describing the saturated zone include the characterization of aquifers in terms of flow direction, groundwater pressure and, by inference, groundwater depth (see: aquifer test).
hydrology: Surface cover increases capacity by retarding runoff, reducing compaction and other processes.
hydrology: Hydrological research can inform environmental engineering, policy, and planning.
hydrology: Hydrology has been subject to investigation and engineering for millennia.
hydrology: Dry soil can allow rapid infiltration by capillary action; this force diminishes as the soil becomes wet.
hydrology: Hydrology subdivides into surface water hydrology, groundwater hydrology (hydrogeology), and marine hydrology.
hydrology: Commonly used techniques are regression, transfer functions, and system identification.
hydrology: Hydrogeochemistry is the study of how terrestrial water dissolves minerals weathering and this effect on water chemistry.
hydrology: Groundwater hydrology (hydrogeology) considers quantifying groundwater flow and solute transport.
hydrology: The central theme of hydrology is that water circulates throughout the Earth through different pathways and at different rates.
hydrology: Designing riparian-zone restoration projects.
hydrology: The ancient Sinhalese used hydrology to build complex irrigation works in Sri Lanka, also known for the invention of the valve pit (bisokotuwas) which allowed construction of large reservoirs, anicuts and canals which still function.
hydrology: The areas of research within hydrology concern the movement of water between its various states, or within a given state, or simply quantifying the amounts in these states in a given region.
hydrology: In some considerations, hydrology is thought of as starting at the land-atmosphere boundary and so it is important to have adequate knowledge of both precipitation and evaporation.
hydrology: Hydrology (from Ancient Greek  ὕδωρ (húdōr) 'water' and  -λογία (-logía) 'study of') is the scientific study of the movement, distribution, and management of water on Earth and other planets, including the water cycle, water resources, and drainage basin sustainability.
hydrology: Evaporation is an important part of the water cycle.
hydrology: Surface hydrology is the study of hydrologic processes that operate at or near Earth's surface.
hydrology: Rational analyses began to replace empiricism in the 20th century, while governmental agencies began their own hydrological research programs.
hydrology: Initial input to receiving waters may arise from a point source discharge or a line source or area source, such as surface runoff.
hydrology: The simplest of these models may be linear models, but it is common to deploy non-linear components to represent some general aspects of a catchment's response without going deeply into the real physical processes involved.
hydrology: Many of the variables constituting the terrestrial water balance, for example surface water storage, soil moisture, precipitation, evapotranspiration, and snow and ice, are measurable using remote sensing at various spatial-temporal resolutions and accuracies.
hydrology: The most common pollutant classes analyzed are nutrients, pesticides, total dissolved solids and sediment.
