ice_skating: A course of 660 yards was measured out on the ice, and a barrel with a flag on it placed at either end.
ice_skating: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
ice_skating: It is not known when the first skating matches were held, but by the early nineteenth century racing was well established and the results of matches were reported in the press.
ice_skating: The fundamental construction of modern ice skates has stayed largely the same since then, although differing greatly in the details, particularly in the method of binding and the shape and construction of the steel blades.
ice_skating: People skate for various reasons, including recreation (fun), exercise, competitive sports, and commuting.
ice_skating: It means that the deformation caused by the skate is plastic rather than elastic.
ice_skating: The International Skating Union was founded in 1892 as the first international ice skating organisation in Scheveningen, in the Netherlands.
ice_skating: The championship matches took the form of a Welsh main or "last man standing" contest (single-elimination tournament).
ice_skating: He was also the first to wear blades that were permanently attached to the boot.
ice_skating: The next skating club to be established was in London and was not founded until 1830.
ice_skating: A number of recreational and sporting activities take place on ice:
ice_skating: Also, if the skater becomes disoriented under the water, they might not be able to find the hole in the ice through which they have fallen.
ice_skating: A skater leaves a visible trail behind on virgin ice and skating rinks have to be regularly resurfaced to improve the skating conditions.
ice_skating: The Dutch added edges to ice skates in the 13th or 14th century.
ice_skating: The molecules in this "quasi-fluid" or "water-like" layer are less mobile than liquid water, but are much more mobile than the molecules deeper in the ice.
ice_skating: This is a self-stabilizing mechanism of skating.
ice_skating: The event had four competitors and was won by Gilbert Fuchs.
ice_skating: In England "the London boys" had improvised butcher's bones as skates since the 12th century.
ice_skating: King Louis XVI of France brought ice skating to Paris during his reign.
ice_skating: A significant danger when skating outdoors on a frozen body of water is falling through the ice into the freezing water underneath.
ice_skating: As a result the sum of the water-layer friction and the ploughing friction only increases slightly with V, making skating at high speeds (>90 km/h) possible.
ice_skating: Skating on metal skates seems to have arrived in England at the same time as the garden canal, with the English Restoration in 1660, after the king and court returned from an exile largely spent in the Netherlands.
ice_skating: On the Continent, participation in ice skating was limited to members of the upper classes.
ice_skating: Experts have warned not to ice skate alone, and also warned parents not to leave children unattended on a frozen body of water.
ice_skating: True skating emerged when a steel blade with sharpened edges was used.
ice_skating: Ice hockey, bandy, rinkball, and ringette are team sports played with, respectively, a flat sliding puck, a ball, and a rubber ring.
ice_skating: The founder of modern figure skating as it is known today was Jackson Haines, an American.
ice_skating: The skate ploughs through the ice in particular due to the sharp edges.
ice_skating: The friction generated in the sheared layer of water between skate and ice grows as √V with V the velocity of the skater, such that for low velocities the friction is also low.
ice_skating: These molecules are in a semiliquid state, providing lubrication.
ice_skating: A person's ability to ice skate depends on the roughness of the ice, the design of the ice skate, and the skill and experience of the skater.
ice_skating: In the 20th century, an alternative explanation, called "friction melting", proposed by Lozowski, Szilder, Le Berre, Pomeau, and others showed that because of the viscous frictional heating, a macroscopic layer of melt ice is in-between the ice and the skate.
ice_skating: In the Fens, skates were called pattens, fen runners, or Whittlesey runners.
ice_skating: Figure skating, ice cross downhill, speed skating, and barrel jumping (a discipline of speed skating) are among the sporting disciplines for individuals.
ice_skating: Members wore a silver skate hanging from their buttonhole and met on The Serpentine, Hyde Park on 27 December 1830.
ice_skating: At about −157 °C (−250 °F) the slippery layer is one molecule thick; as the temperature increases the slippery layer becomes thicker.
ice_skating: This explanation, called "pressure melting", originated in the 19th century.
ice_skating: The book titled The Art of Figure Skating, written by a British artillery lieutenant, Robert Jones, describes basic figure skating forms such as circles and figure eights.
ice_skating: Skating and Science (a bibliography)
"Skating" .
ice_skating: The metal blades were slightly higher at the back than the front.
ice_skating: In these local matches men (or sometimes women or children) would compete for prizes of money, clothing, or food.
ice_skating: There were holes in the footstock for leather straps to fasten it to the foot.
ice_skating: As the technology for the maintenance of natural ice did not exist, these early rinks used a substitute consisting of a mixture of hog's lard and various salts.
ice_skating: The hypothesis was that the blade of an ice skate, exerting pressure on the ice, melts a thin layer, providing lubrication between the ice and the blade.
ice_skating: The newly formed Association held their first one-and-a-half-mile British professional championship at Thorney in December 1879.
ice_skating: Man-made ice surfaces include ice rinks, ice hockey rinks, bandy fields, ice tracks required for the sport of ice cross downhill, and arenas.
ice_skating: In the 1890s, fen skaters started to race in Norwegian style skates.
ice_skating: On Saturday 1 February 1879, a number of professional ice skaters from Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire met in the Guildhall, Cambridge, to set up the National Skating Association, the first national ice skating body in the world.
ice_skating: Haines also invented the sit spin and developed a shorter, curved blade for figure skating that allowed for easier turns.
ice_skating: By the mid-19th century, ice skating was a popular pastime among the British upper and middle classes.
ice_skating: The book was written solely for men, as women did not normally ice skate in the late 18th century.
ice_skating: For a one-and-a-half-mile race the skaters completed two rounds of the course, with three barrel turns.
ice_skating: With this they fully explained the low friction with nothing else but macroscopic physics, whereby the frictional heat generated between skate and ice melts a layer of ice.
ice_skating: Whatever the origin of the water layer, skating is more destructive than simply gliding.
ice_skating: Various formal sports involving ice skating have emerged since the 19th century.
ice_skating: Ice skating was also practiced in China during the Song dynasty, and became popular among the ruling family of the Qing dynasty.
ice_skating: Ice skating may be performed on naturally frozen bodies of water, such as ponds, lakes, canals, and rivers, and on human-made ice surfaces both indoors and outdoors.
ice_skating: The calculated frictions are of the same order as the measured frictions in real skating in a rink.
ice_skating: While serious injury is rare, a number of short track speed skaters have been paralysed after a heavy fall when they collided with the boarding.
ice_skating: It is often difficult or impossible for the skater to climb out of the water, due to the weight of their ice skates and thick winter clothing, and the ice repeatedly breaking as they struggle to get back onto the surface.
ice_skating: An item in the 8 May 1844 issue of Littell's 'Living Age' headed the 'Glaciarium' reported that "This establishment, which has been removed to Grafton Street East' Tottenham Court Road, was opened on Monday afternoon.
ice_skating: Van Leeuwen proposed that another component has to be added to the friction: the "ploughing friction".
ice_skating: The ploughing friction decreases with the velocity V, since the pressure in the water layer increases with V and lifts the skate (aquaplaning).
ice_skating: Synchronized skating is a unique artistic team sport derived from figure skating.
ice_skating: When the waters froze, skating matches were held in towns and villages all over the Fens.
ice_skating: For admission to the club, candidates had to pass a skating test where they performed a complete circle on either foot (e.g., a figure eight), and then jumped over first one hat, then two and three, placed over each other on the ice.
ice_skating: A screw at the back was screwed into the heel of the boot, and three small spikes at the front kept the skate steady.
ice_skating: Natural ice surfaces used by skaters can accommodate a variety of winter sports which generally require an enclosed area, but are also used by skaters who need ice tracks and trails for distance skating and speed skating.
ice_skating: Skating as a sport developed on the lakes of Scotland and the canals of the Netherlands.
ice_skating: He was the first skater to incorporate ballet and dance movements into his skating, as opposed to focusing on tracing patterns on the ice.
ice_skating: In the 13th and 14th centuries wood was substituted for bone in skate blades, and in 1572 the first iron skates were manufactured.
ice_skating: Madame de Pompadour, Napoleon I, Napoleon III, and the House of Stuart were, among others, royal and upper-class fans of ice skating.
ice_skating: This was done to save energy during winter journeys.
ice_skating: Accidents are rare but there is a risk of injury from collisions, particularly during hockey games or in pair skating.
ice_skating: The first instructional book concerning ice skating was published in London in 1772.
ice_skating: Both Samuel Pepys and John Evelyn, the two leading diarists of the day, saw it on the "new canal" there on 1 December 1662, the first time Pepys had ever seen it ("a very pretty art").
ice_skating: Although this can prove fatal, it is also possible for the rapid cooling to produce a condition in which a person can be revived up to hours after falling into the water.
ice_skating: It had long been believed that ice is slippery because the pressure of an object in contact with it causes a thin layer to melt.
ice_skating: Skates now cut into the ice instead of gliding on top of it.
ice_skating: It was with the publication of this manual that ice skating split into its two main disciplines, speed skating and figure skating.
ice_skating: Racing was the preserve of workers, most of them agricultural labourers.
ice_skating: These ice skates were made of steel, with sharpened edges on the bottom to aid movement.
ice_skating: If by fluctuation the friction gets high, the layer grows in thickness and lowers the friction, and if it gets low, the layer decreases in thickness and increases the friction.
ice_skating: Ice skating is the self-propulsion and gliding of a person across a flat ice surface, using metal-bladed ice skates.
ice_skating: Emperor Rudolf II of the Holy Roman Empire enjoyed ice skating so much, he had a large ice carnival constructed in his court in order to popularise the sport.
ice_skating: Then it was "performed before their Majesties and others, by diverse gentlemen and others, with scheets after the manner of the Hollanders".
ice_skating: The area of artificial ice is extremely convenient for such as may be desirous of engaging in the graceful and manly pastime of skating."
ice_skating: Death can result from shock, hypothermia, or drowning.
ice_skating: Archeologists say these ancient skates are "clear evidence for communication between China and Europe" in the Bronze Age era, as they are very similar to bone skates unearthed in Europe.
ice_skating: Skating became popular as a recreation, a means of transport and spectator sport in The Fens in England for people from all walks of life.
ice_skating: Early attempts at the construction of artificial ice rinks were made during the "rink mania" of 1841–44.
ice_skating: In London the ornamental "canal" in  St James's Park was the main centre until the 19th century.
ice_skating: (See Regelation.) Pressure melting could not account for skating on ice temperatures lower than −3.5 °C, whereas skaters often skate on lower-temperature ice.
ice_skating: Ancient ice skates, made of animal bones, were found at the bronze age Gaotai Ruins in north west China, and are estimated to be likely 3,500 years old.
ice_skating: The first Championship, known as the Championship of the Internationale Eislauf-Vereinigung, was held in Saint Petersburg in 1896.
ice_skating: The footstock was made of beechwood.
ice_skating: Albert continued to skate after their marriage and on falling through the ice was once rescued by Victoria and a lady in waiting from a stretch of water in the grounds of Buckingham Palace.
ice_skating: The Union created the first codified set of figure skating rules and governed international competition in speed and figure skating.
ice_skating: The winners of local matches were invited to take part in the grand or championship matches, in which skaters from across the Fens would compete for cash prizes in front of crowds of thousands.
ice_skating: Queen Victoria became acquainted with her future husband, Prince Albert, through a series of ice skating trips.
ice_skating: The competitors, 16 or sometimes 32, were paired off in heats and the winner of each heat went through to the next round.
ice_skating: A fall can be fatal if a helmet is not worn to protect against severe head injury.
ice_skating: In the Netherlands, ice skating was considered proper for all classes of people, as shown in many pictures from Dutch Golden Age painters.
