imperialism: By now, relations with the Allied powers were at the bottom, and an international boycott against Japan to deprive it of natural resources was enforced.
imperialism: European Marxists picked up Hobson's ideas incorporated them their own theory of imperialism, most notably in Vladimir Lenin's Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism (1916).
imperialism: The most successful Chinese imperial dynasties in terms of territorial expansion were the Han, Tang, Yuan, and Qing dynasties.
imperialism: Malden, MA; Oxford, England; Carlton, Victoria: Blackwell Publishing.
imperialism: Its growth was reversed by the loss of the American colonies in 1776.
imperialism: Later, in a split with the Soviet Union, Mao Zedong criticized its leaders as social imperialists.
imperialism: Britain continued to expand by colonizing countries such as New Zealand and Australia, both of which were not empty land as they had their own locals and cultures.
imperialism: The empire Great Britain would go on to found was the largest empire that the world has ever seen both in terms of landmass and population.
imperialism: At its territorial peak under Emperor Trajan around 117 AD, the Roman Empire covered approximately 5 million square kilometres and ruled over 60–70 million people.
imperialism: Among historians, there is substantial support in favor of approaching imperialism as a conceptual theory emerging during the 18th–19th centuries, particularly within Britain, propagated by key exponents such as Joseph Chamberlain and Benjamin Disraeli.
imperialism: Europe's expansion into territorial imperialism was largely focused on economic growth by collecting resources from colonies, in combination with assuming political control by military and political means.
imperialism: Lawrence River and claiming it as "New France".
imperialism: In 1883–84 Germany began to build a colonial empire in Africa and the South Pacific.
imperialism: While the end of the period is commonly dated to 1914, the date of the beginning of it varies between 1760 and 1870.
imperialism: A period of conflicts and political revolutions followed due to socioeconomic uncertainty, ending in 1868 with the reunification of political power under the Japanese Emperor during the Meiji Restoration.
imperialism: the Zulus in Southern Africa during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879).
imperialism: One of the first demands of the emerging nationalist movement after World War II was the introduction of full metropolitan-style education in French West Africa with its promise of equality with Europeans.
imperialism: Using its superior technological advances in naval aviation and its modern doctrines of amphibious and naval warfare, Japan achieved one of the fastest maritime expansions in history.
imperialism: In South Vietnam from 1955 to 1975 there were two competing powers in education, as the French continued their work and the Americans moved in.
imperialism: Historians and political theorists have long debated the correlation between capitalism, class, and imperialism.
imperialism: By the '30s, economic depression, urgency of resources and a growing distrust in the Allied powers made Japan lean to a hardened militaristic stance.
imperialism: ISBN 978-0-8133-1359-7.
imperialism: Some scholars hold that the Soviet Union was a hybrid entity containing elements common to both multinational empires and nation-states.
imperialism: The Portuguese Empire gradually declined after World War I and, later, after World War II, as independence movements arose in Africa and Asia.
imperialism: At the start of World War II, President Franklin D.
imperialism: In twentieth century French-Canadian discourse the "imperialists" were all the Anglo-Saxon countries including Canada who were oppressing French-speakers and the province of Quebec.
imperialism: However, after 1945 anti-colonial movements began to challenge the Empire.
imperialism: This provided incentives for imperial and colonial powers to obtain "information to fill in blank spaces on contemporary maps".
imperialism: Spain placed significant strategic emphasis on the acquisition, extraction, and exportation of precious metals (primarily gold and silver).
imperialism: Bolshevik leaders had effectively reestablished a polity with roughly the same extent as that empire by 1921, however with an internationalist ideology: Lenin in particular asserted the right to limited self-determination for national minorities within the new territory.
imperialism: Precisely, the victory against the Russian Empire shook the world: never before had an Asian nation defeated a European power, and in Japan it was seen as a feat.
imperialism: Much more important was informal control of independent areas.
imperialism: imperialism in the form of political and financial hegemony.
imperialism: At its peak, the Italian Empire covered several million square kilometers in Africa and the Mediterranean, ruling over millions of inhabitants.
imperialism: The British settlement in Australia in the 18th century was arguably premised on terra nullius, as its settlers considered it unused by its original inhabitants.
imperialism: In congruence with the colonialist activities of competing European imperial powers throughout the 15th – 19th centuries, the Spanish were equally engrossed in extending geopolitical power.
imperialism: German colonies included the present territories of in Africa: Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, Namibia, Cameroon, Ghana and Togo; in Oceania: New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Nauru, Marshall Islands, Mariana Islands, Caroline Islands and Samoa; and in Asia: Qingdao, Yantai and the Jiaozhou Bay.
imperialism: Orientalism is a view of a people based on their geographical location.
imperialism: Stein, Burton (2010), A History of India, John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-1-4443-2351-1, retrieved 15 July 2019.
imperialism: She says that this likely fuelled war crimes against Ukrainians and that "the behavior of Russian forces bore all hallmarks of imperial violence".
imperialism: So, although domestic wages remained higher, they did not grow nearly as fast as they might otherwise have.
imperialism: Because of the resources which were made available by imperialism, the world's economy grew significantly and it became much more interconnected in the decades before World War I, making the many imperial powers rich and prosperous.
imperialism: It was followed by French East India Company's trading posts in Africa and Asia in the 17th century.
imperialism: Some Marxists within the Russian Empire and later the USSR, like Sultan Galiev and Vasyl Shakhrai, considered the Soviet regime a renewed version of the Russian imperialism and colonialism.
imperialism: a form of soft power, which changes the moral, cultural, and societal worldview of the subordinate culture.
imperialism: They were often backed by military force, but were more often affected from behind the scenes.
imperialism: The Caribbean basin functioned as a key geographic focal point for advancing Spanish imperialism.
imperialism: The emergence of the Encomienda system during the 16th–17th centuries in occupied colonies within the Caribbean basin reflects a gradual shift in imperial prioritization, increasingly focusing on large-scale production and exportation of agricultural commodities.
imperialism: By independence, the quality of Tunisian education nearly equalled that in France.
imperialism: In 1939, Italy invaded Albania and incorporated it into the Fascist state.
imperialism: ISBN 9781845118303.
imperialism: Tranquebar was sold to the British in 1845.
imperialism: The Mongols (2nd ed.).
imperialism: It was coined in the 19th century to describe Napoleon III's attempts to gain political support by invasion.
imperialism: Irish War of Independence in 1919–1921 led to the сreation of the Irish Free State.
imperialism: The war resulted in eastern Poland being conquered by Imperial Russia as a colony until 1918.
imperialism: Rather, these activities are more accurately classified as representing a form of colonialism.
imperialism: Encyclopædia Iranica (Online ed.).
imperialism: One of the main tools used by imperialists was cartography.
imperialism: Therefore, Orientalism was the ideological justification of early Western imperialism—a body of knowledge and ideas that rationalized social, cultural, political, and economic control of other, non-white peoples.
imperialism: France did slightly better.
imperialism: Later Marxist theoreticians echo this conception of imperialism as a structural feature of capitalism, which explained the world wars as the battle between imperialists for control of external markets.
imperialism: Roman authorities promoted Roman law, language (Latin), religion (including the adoption of Christianity in the 4th century), architecture, and infrastructure, presenting conquest as a way to integrate and stabilize conquered peoples.
imperialism: Russia has also established domination over Belarus.
imperialism: Concomitant with Spanish endorsement and sponsorship of transatlantic expeditionary voyages was the deployment of Conquistadors, which further expanded Spanish imperial boundaries through the acquisition and development of territories and colonies.
imperialism: After World War II, the Soviet Union installed socialist regimes modeled on those it had installed in 1919–20 in the old Russian Empire, in areas its forces occupied in Eastern Europe.
imperialism: Many of those maps were highly regarded for their accuracy" but were not printed in Europe unless Europeans verified them.
imperialism: They are now autonomous territories.
imperialism: The term was applied to the British Empire during the 1870s; by the 1880s it had acquired a positive connotation in the West.
imperialism: After the First Boer War, the South African Republic and Orange Free State were recognised by the United Kingdom but eventually re-annexed after the Second Boer War.
imperialism: The Roman Empire was the post-Republican period of ancient Rome.
imperialism: China was home to some of the world's oldest empires.
imperialism: Cabinet decisions to annex or not to annex were made, usually on the basis of political or geopolitical considerations."
Looking at the main empires from 1875 to 1914, there was a mixed record in terms of profitability.
imperialism: French Republicans, at first hostile to empire, only became supportive when Germany started to build her own colonial empire.
imperialism: Those goals were rejected by the Moslem Arabs, who prized mental agility and their distinctive religious tradition.
imperialism: Colonies often adopt aspects of their colonists' cultures.
imperialism: Unchallenged at sea, British dominance was later described as Pax Britannica ("British Peace"), a period of relative peace in Europe and the world (1815–1914) during which the British Empire became the global hegemon and adopted the role of global policeman.
imperialism: The latter date makes the Age of Imperialism identical with the New Imperialism.
imperialism: Contrasting from Britain, France sent small numbers of settlers to its colonies, with the only notable exception of Algeria, where French settlers nevertheless always remained a small minority.
imperialism: Notable examples of these indigenous groups include the Taίno populations inhabiting Puerto Rico and segments of Cuba.
imperialism: European expansion greatly accelerated in the 19th century.
imperialism: The western world forgets during this process of converting the other that enlightenment and democracy are concepts that not all will agree upon".
imperialism: The extermination of indigenous Siberian tribes was so complete that a relatively small population of only 180,000 are said to exist today.
imperialism: According to Indian Economist Utsa Patnaik, the scale of the wealth transfer out of India, between 1765 and 1938, was an estimated $45 Trillion.
imperialism: While these non-Marxist writers were at their most prolific before World War I, they remained active in the interwar years.
imperialism: In 1871 the Mudan incident happened: Taiwanese aborigines murdered 54 Ryūkyūan sailors that became shipwrecked.
imperialism: The result was to immerse the next generation of leaders in the growing anti-colonial diaspora centered in Paris.
imperialism: The Pan-African movement helped with the eventual end of Colonialism in Africa.
imperialism: John Cabot claimed Newfoundland for the British while the French established colonies along the St.
imperialism: Compulsory labor and slavery were widely institutionalized across Spanish-occupied territories and colonies, with an initial emphasis on directing labor towards mining activity and related methods of procuring semi-precious metals.
imperialism: It also showed difference in the United States' formation of "colonies" abroad.
imperialism: Similar to the strategic prioritization Spain placed towards achieving victory in the conquests of the Aztec Empire and Inca Empire, Spain placed equal strategic emphasis on expanding the nation's imperial footprint within the Caribbean basin.
imperialism: Italian authorities established administrative structures and educational institutions in the colonies to govern local populations and train an elite loyal to Italy.
imperialism: According to Bassett, "[n]ineteenth-century explorers commonly requested Africans to sketch maps of unknown areas on the ground.
imperialism: American foreign policy was denounced as a "racket" by Smedley Butler, a former American general who had become a spokesman for the far left.
imperialism: This was taken over by the Italian government in 1882, becoming modern Italy's first overseas territory.
imperialism: Although cartographic processes advanced through imperialism, further analysis of their progress reveals many biases linked to eurocentrism.
imperialism: By 1942 Japan had conquered much of East Asia and the Pacific, including the east of China, Hong Kong, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, Burma (Myanmar), Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia, part of New Guinea and many islands of the Pacific Ocean.
imperialism: European industrialists sought raw materials such as dyes, cotton, vegetable oils, and metal ores from overseas.
imperialism: However, with the United States and Soviet Union emerging from World War II as the sole superpowers, Britain's role as a worldwide power declined significantly and rapidly.
imperialism: Safavid Iran: Rebirth of a Persian Empire.
imperialism: They advocated that modern imperialism was primarily a political product caused by the national mass hysteria rather than by the capitalists.
imperialism: Fieldhouse, David Landes, and Oron Hale argued that the Hobsonian conception of imperialism was no longer supported.
imperialism: For Harley, maps serve as an example of Foucault's power and knowledge concept.
imperialism: Hobson identifies this justification on general grounds as: "It is desirable that the earth should be peopled, governed, and developed, as far as possible, by the races which can do this work best, i.e.
imperialism: Made up of former colonies itself, the early United States expressed its opposition to imperialism, at least in a form distinct from its own Manifest Destiny, through policies such as the Monroe Doctrine.
imperialism: In 1898, Americans who opposed imperialism created the Anti-Imperialist League to oppose the US annexation of the Philippines and Cuba.
imperialism: Through the decade, it would grow closer to Germany and Italy, forming together the Axis alliance.
imperialism: By the 1880s, the machine gun had become a reliable battlefield weapon.
imperialism: Eventually, the spoils for winning the First Sino-Japanese War in 1894 included Taiwan.
imperialism: French settlers and many local supporters relocated to France.
imperialism: The empire had a lasting impact on Western civilization, including law, language, architecture, engineering, literature, and governance models.
imperialism: Some also argued that the USSR practiced colonialism as did other imperial powers and was carrying on the old Russian tradition of expansion and control.
imperialism: In the late 19th and early 20th, to be an "imperialist" meant thinking of Canada as a part of the British nation not a separate nation.
imperialism: A fundamental source of contention stems from the inadvertent conflation of theoretical conceptions of imperialism and colonialism.
imperialism: Christian IV first initiated the policy of expanding Denmark-Norway's overseas trade, as part of the mercantilist wave that was sweeping Europe.
imperialism: Most of the African colonies gained independence in the 1970s, marking the end of Portugal's overseas empire.
imperialism: After Ottoman defeat in the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878), Bulgaria, Serbia and Montenegro gained independence and Britain took colonial control of Cyprus, while Bosnia and Herzegovina were occupied and annexed by Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1908.
imperialism: Kenneth Waltz suggests that the root cause of imperialism is great power.
imperialism: The United Kingdom now had a practically continuous line of controlled territories from Egypt to Burma and another one from Cairo to Cape Town.
imperialism: The emerging French-educated indigenous elite saw little value in educating rural peoples.
imperialism: During the 16th century, the French colonization of the Americas began with the creation of New France.
imperialism: Representatives at the 1900 Pan African Conference demanded moderate reforms for colonial African nations.
imperialism: But the concept of the Age of Imperialism refers to the period which pre-dates World War I.
imperialism: The concept of Drang Nach Osten was a core element of German nationalism and a major element of Nazi ideology.
imperialism: With the invention of railroads and telegraphs, it became easier to communicate with other countries and to extend the administrative control of a home nation over its colonies.
imperialism: Imperial control, territorial and cultural, is justified through discourses about the imperialists' understanding of different spaces.
imperialism: Fieldhouse suggests that in the 19th and 20th centuries in places such as Africa and Asia, this idea is not necessarily valid:
imperialism: In contrast, tropical climates allegedly yielded lazy attitudes, sexual promiscuity, exotic culture, and moral degeneracy.
imperialism: They constrained, and at their best, tried to transcend, the potentially savage ethnic or religious antagonisms among the peoples.
imperialism: A controversial aspect of imperialism is the defense and justification of empire-building based on seemingly rational grounds.
imperialism: Exporting capital, he concluded, put a lid on the growth of domestic wages and the domestic standard of living.
imperialism: Hobson (1858–1940), Joseph Schumpeter (1883–1950), Thorstein Veblen (1857–1929), and Norman Angell (1872–1967).
imperialism: This is consistent with the general notion of hegemony and imperium of historical empires.
imperialism: He said that Tsar Peter had returned "Russian land" to the empire, and that "it is now also our responsibility to return (Russian) land".
imperialism: The regime promoted the spread of Italian language, culture, and institutions in its colonies, presenting colonial expansion as a way to assert Italy's prestige and modernize the territories under its control.
imperialism: Its repeated invasions, and brutal treatment of Slavs led to the Great Migrations of the Serbs to escape persecution.
imperialism: Portugal aimed to maintain its historical overseas possessions while spreading Portuguese language, culture, and Catholicism.
imperialism: Along with advancements in communication, Europe also continued to advance in military technology.
imperialism: The British spirit of imperialism was expressed by Joseph Chamberlain and Lord Rosebury, and implemented in Africa by Cecil Rhodes.
imperialism: In a lecture on April 16, 2003, Edward Said described modern imperialism in the United States as an aggressive means of attack towards the contemporary Orient stating that "due to their backward living, lack of democracy and the violation of women's rights.
imperialism: And Japan was eager to take every opportunity.
imperialism: In World War II, Charles de Gaulle and the Free French used the overseas colonies as bases from which they fought to liberate France.
imperialism: Moreover, the ideas of imperialism were widely spread in action on the higher levels of government.
imperialism: Its power, both military and economic, remained unmatched for a few decades.
imperialism: Hence moral self-criticism in respect of the colonial past is out of place.
imperialism: As a polity, it included large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean Sea in Europe, North Africa, and Western Asia, ruled by emperors.
imperialism: Canada, Australia, and New Zealand became self-governing dominions.
imperialism: While related to the concept of colonialism, imperialism is a distinct concept that can apply to other forms of expansion and many forms of government.
imperialism: It implies that maps are objective representations of the world when in reality they serve political means.
imperialism: Beginning in the late 19th and early 20th century, policies such as Theodore Roosevelt's interventionism in Central America and Woodrow Wilson's mission to "make the world safe for democracy" changed all this.
imperialism: Streusand, Douglas E.
imperialism: Full citizenship rights – assimilation – were offered, although in reality assimilation was always on the distant horizon.
imperialism: International reactions condemned this move, but Japan's already strong skepticism against Allied nations meant that it nevertheless carried on.
imperialism: The Treaty of Versailles made them mandates under the control the Allied victors.
imperialism: At least some of the great modern empires—the British, French, Austro-Hungarian, Russian, and even the Ottoman—have virtues that have been too readily forgotten.
imperialism: The British Empire expanded to include India, large parts of Africa and many other territories throughout the world.
imperialism: Georgia's accession to Russia in 1783 was marked by the Treaty of Georgievsk.
imperialism: Having a moderately trained lower bureaucracy was of great use to colonial officials.
imperialism: Imperialism focuses on establishing or maintaining hegemony and a more formal empire.
imperialism: Steam railroads and steam-driven ocean shipping made possible the fast, cheap transport of massive amounts of goods to and from colonies.
imperialism: In Algeria, the debate was polarized.
imperialism: Religious imperialism involves the extension of religious authority modeled on colonial power structures.
imperialism: The Putin regime has revived imperial ideas such as the "Russian world" and the ideology of Eurasianism.
imperialism: The Americans looked at the great mass of people and sought to make South Vietnam a nation strong enough to stop communism.
imperialism: Beginning in 1923, the policy of "Indigenization" [korenizatsiya] was intended to support non-Russians develop their national cultures within a socialist framework.
imperialism: The Pan-African movement instead tried to reverse those ideas by uniting Africans and creating a sense of brotherhood among all African people.
imperialism: Hobson, and in 1917, Lenin, attempted to redefine imperialism as the "highest stage of capitalism", as firms exported capital to dominate economically rather than territorially.
imperialism: British imperialism showed its frailty in Egypt during the Suez Crisis in 1956.
imperialism: The purportedly scientific nature of "Social Darwinism" and a theory of races formed a supposedly rational justification for imperialism.
imperialism: In ancient China, Tianxia denoted the lands, space, and area divinely appointed to the Emperor by universal and well-defined principles of order.
imperialism: Cossacks were then used in Imperial Russian campaigns against other tribes.
imperialism: France also twice attempted to make Mexico a colony in 1838–39 and in 1861–67 (see Pastry War and Second French intervention in Mexico).
imperialism: Japan's victory against Russia would act as an antecedent for Asian countries in the fight against the Western powers for Decolonization.
imperialism: In 1767, the Anglo-Mysore Wars and other political activity caused exploitation of the East India Company causing the plundering of the local economy, almost bringing the company into bankruptcy.
imperialism: Overall, Great Britain extracted profits from India, especially Mughal Bengal, but not from most of the rest of its empire.
imperialism: In the 1970s, the British historians John Gallagher (1919–1980) and Ronald Robinson (1920–1999) argued that European leaders rejected the notion that "imperialism" required formal, legal control by one government over a colonial region.
imperialism: Stephen Howe has summarized his view on the beneficial effects of the colonial empires:
imperialism: Furthermore, significant variation exists in the definition and interpretation of these terms as expounded by historians, anthropologists, philosophers, and political scientists.
imperialism: Outside Africa, Italy possessed the Dodecanese Islands off the coast of Turkey (following the Italo-Turkish War) and a small concession in Tianjin in China following the Boxer War of 1900.
imperialism: In the late 19th century, they were joined by the United States and Japan.
imperialism: The older words for the same concepts were "loyalism" or "unionism", which continued to be used as well.
imperialism: Anglophone academic studies often base their theories regarding imperialism on the British Empire.
imperialism: And the aristocracies which ruled most of them were often far more liberal, humane, and cosmopolitan than their supposedly ever more democratic successors.
imperialism: Modern empires were not artificially constructed economic machines.
imperialism: Marshall further pushed the term to encompass phenomena such as space development.
imperialism: Islamic Gunpowder Empires: Ottomans, Safavids, and Mughals.
imperialism: During this time, European merchants had the ability to "roam the high seas and appropriate surpluses from around the world (sometimes peaceably, sometimes violently) and to concentrate them in Europe".
imperialism: Russia occupies parts of neighboring countries and has engaged in expansionism, most notably with the 2008 Russian invasion of Georgia, the 2014 annexation of Crimea, and the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine and annexation of its southeast.
imperialism: It has used disinformation and the Russian diaspora to undermine the sovereignty of other countries.
imperialism: At first, planners expected that colonies would provide an excellent captive market for manufactured items.
imperialism: Britain's nationalistic movements were evident with the creation of the commonwealth countries where there was a shared nature of national identity.
imperialism: In 1453, Mehmed the Conqueror captured Constantinople and made it his capital.
imperialism: The Belgian Congo was notoriously profitable when it was a capitalistic rubber plantation owned and operated by King Leopold II as a private enterprise.
imperialism: This internal form of empire has been referred to as "internal colonialism".
imperialism: Mao Zedong once argued that the Soviet Union had itself become an imperialist power while maintaining a socialist façade.
imperialism: Although then relations with the USSR deteriorated, but the USSR was the only world power that provided military assistance to China against Japanese aggression in 1937–1941 (see Sino-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact).
imperialism: Imperialism has been present and prominent since the beginning of history, and its most intensive phase occurred in the Axial Age.
imperialism: At first, Japan was in good standing with the victorious Allied powers of World War I, but different discrepancies and dissatisfaction with the rewards of the treaties cooled the relations with them, for example American pressure forced it to return the Shandong area.
imperialism: By the early 21st century, "colonialism" was used to highlight supposed anti-indigenous attitudes and actions of Canada inherited from the British period.
imperialism: By the end of the 19th century, the term was used to describe the behavior of empires at all times and places.
imperialism: Individual colonies might serve an economic purpose; collectively no empire had any definable function, economic or otherwise.
imperialism: But British power was fading, as the reunited German state founded by the Kingdom of Prussia posed a growing threat to Britain's dominance.
imperialism: German expansion into Slavic lands begins in the 12th–13th-century (see Drang Nach Osten).
imperialism: Those changes reflect—among other shifts in sensibility—a growing unease, even great distaste, with the pervasiveness of such power, specifically, Western power.
imperialism: The crushing of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and Soviet–Afghan War have been cited as examples.
imperialism: Nearly all of France's colonies gained independence by 1960, but France retained significant financial and diplomatic influence.
imperialism: Prussia unified the other states into the second German Empire in 1871.
imperialism: In 1875 Japan took its first operation against Joseon Korea, another territory that for centuries it coveted; the Ganghwa Island incident made Korea open to international trade.
imperialism: However, this period was also one of emergence of independence movements based on nationalism and new experiences the colonists had gained in the war.
imperialism: In Imperialism, he argued that the financing of overseas empires drained money that was needed at home.
imperialism: But the United Kingdom gained control of former German and Ottoman colonies with the League of Nations mandate.
imperialism: Hannah Arendt and Joseph Schumpeter defined imperialism as expansion for the sake of expansion.
imperialism: The colony was administered by Paul Cambon, who built an educational system for colonists and indigenous people alike that was closely modeled on mainland France.
imperialism: For instance, American geographer Ellen Churchill Semple argued that even though human beings originated in the tropics they were only able to become fully human in the temperate zone.
imperialism: Concurrently, industrialization was quickly making Europe the centre of manufacturing and economic growth, driving resource needs.
imperialism: Morgan, David (2007).
imperialism: This means more than just "foreign" music, television or film becoming popular with young people; rather that a populace changes its own expectations of life, desiring for their own country to become more like the foreign country depicted.
imperialism: He pulled back when Britain's Winston Churchill demanded that victory in the war be the first priority.
imperialism: Following the defeat of Napoleonic France in 1815, the United Kingdom enjoyed a century of almost unchallenged dominance and expanded its imperial holdings around the globe.
imperialism: Imperialism, by Emile Perreau-Saussine
imperialism: The bulk of British emigration, trade, and capital went to areas outside the formal British Empire.
imperialism: In Imperialism: A Study (1902), Hobson developed a highly influential interpretation of imperialism that expanded on his belief that free-enterprise capitalism had a harmful effect on the majority of the population.
imperialism: Other 19th century episodes included the Scramble for Africa and Great Game.
imperialism: Admiral Ove Gjedde led the expedition that established the colony.
imperialism: France fought and lost a bitter war in Vietnam in the 1950s.
imperialism: Supporters of "imperialism" such as Joseph Chamberlain quickly appropriated the concept.
imperialism: This plan helped the Japanese gain support from native populations during its conquests especially in Indonesia.
imperialism: Imperialism has been subject to moral or immoral censure by its critics, and thus the term "imperialism" is frequently used in international propaganda as a pejorative for expansionist and aggressive foreign policy.
imperialism: Britain made compensating gains in India, Australia, and in constructing an informal economic empire through control of trade and finance in Latin America after the independence of Spanish and Portuguese colonies in about 1820.
imperialism: They sharply disagreed on goals.
imperialism: Although the Soviet Union declared itself anti-imperialist, critics argue that it exhibited traits common to historic empires.
imperialism: Spanish imperialism in the colonial era corresponds with the rise and decline of the Spanish Empire, conventionally recognized as emerging in 1402 with the conquest of the Canary Islands.
imperialism: To better illustrate this idea, Bassett focuses his analysis of the role of 19th-century maps during the "Scramble for Africa".
imperialism: Although a substantial number of colonies had been designed to provide economic profit and to ship resources to home ports in the 17th and 18th centuries, D.
imperialism: In 1932, scholar Clifford Manshardt defined religious imperialism as "the attitude of mind which says that that which I believe should be believed by everyone else; and which is willing to undergo hardships and make sacrifices for the extension of that belief."
imperialism: It was granted a trust to administer former Italian Somaliland under United Nations supervision in 1950.
imperialism: Since the 2010s, Russia under Vladimir Putin has been described as neo-imperialist.
imperialism: A total of six Pan-African conferences that were held, and these allowed the African people to have a voice in ending colonial rule.
imperialism: The conference also discussed African populations in the Caribbean and the United States and their rights.
imperialism: In 1599 the British East India Company was established and was chartered by Queen Elizabeth in the following year.
imperialism: Imperialism and colonialism both involve political and economic advantage over a land and its population.
imperialism: The Portuguese colonial project was justified by a combination of economic interests, strategic considerations, and a sense of civilizing mission.
imperialism: The Russian conquest of Siberia over the Khanate of Sibir took place in the 16th and 17th centuries, and resulted in the slaughter of various indigenous tribes by Russians, including the Daur, the Koryaks, the Itelmens, Mansi people and the Chukchi.
imperialism: This internal form is distinct from informal U.S.
imperialism: By 1810 Egypt was effectively independent.
imperialism: These societies also served as a space for travellers to share these stories.
imperialism: By the 1890s, imperialists saw the economic benefit primarily in the production of inexpensive raw materials to feed the domestic manufacturing sector.
imperialism: In accordance with this theoretical perspective, the activities of the Spanish in the Caribbean are not components of a preeminent, ideologically driven form of imperialism.
imperialism: Hobson theorized that domestic social reforms could cure the international disease of imperialism by removing its economic foundation, while state intervention through taxation could boost broader consumption, create wealth, and encourage a peaceful, tolerant, multipolar world order.
imperialism: In 1884 the leading exponent of colonialism, Jules Ferry declared France had a civilising mission: "The higher races have a right over the lower races, they have a duty to civilize the inferior".
imperialism: As it developed, the new empire took on roles of trade with France, supplying raw materials and purchasing manufactured items, as well as lending prestige to the motherland and spreading French civilization and language as well as Catholicism.
imperialism: Communication became much more advanced during European expansion.
imperialism: The British experience failed to support it.
imperialism: Alongside the formal control it exerted over its own colonies, British dominance of much of world trade meant that it effectively controlled the economies of many regions, such as Asia and Latin America.
imperialism: Following the proto-industrialization, the "First" British Empire was based on mercantilism, and involved colonies and holdings primarily in North America, the Caribbean, and India.
imperialism: Its Chancellor, Otto von Bismarck (1862–90), long opposed colonial acquisitions, arguing that the burden of obtaining, maintaining, and defending such possessions would outweigh any potential benefits.
imperialism: He emphasized female and vocational education.
imperialism: Apart from the Indian subcontinent, this was seldom true.
imperialism: Germany also lost the portions of its Eastern territories that had Polish majorities to independent Poland as a result of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919.
imperialism: It also provided crucial manpower in both World Wars.
imperialism: This period coincided with the broader maximum territorial extent of the European imperial powers during the interwar years.
imperialism: In 1815 to 1914 the Ottoman Empire could exist only in the conditions of acute rivalry of the great powers, with Britain its main supporter, especially in the Crimean War 1853–1856, against Russia.
imperialism: It began with explorations along the West African coast and the establishment of trading posts in Morocco, then expanded to Brazil, India (Goa), and parts of Southeast Asia and Africa, including Angola and Mozambique.
imperialism: Tropicality can be paralleled with Edward Said's Orientalism as the west's construction of the east as the "other".
imperialism: This competition was evident in the colonization of what is now known as Canada.
imperialism: Said stated that colonialism implies geographic separation between the colony and the imperial power.
imperialism: Nor is such a usage of culture recent – as part of Roman imperialism, local elites would be exposed to the benefits and luxuries of Roman culture and lifestyle, with the aim that they would then become willing participants.
imperialism: The foundation of the empire is traditionally dated to 27 BC, when Augustus became the first emperor, and it continued in the West until 476 AD, while the Eastern Roman Empire (later called the Byzantine Empire) survived until 1453.
imperialism: The Soviet Union and later the People's Republic of China supported revolutionary and communist movements in foreign nations and colonies to advance their own interests, but were not always successful.
imperialism: At that time the Ryukyu Islands were claimed by both Qing China and Japan, and the Japanese interpreted the incident as an attack on their citizens.
imperialism: Josip Broz Tito and Milovan Djilas have referred to the Stalinist USSR's foreign policies, such as the occupation and economic exploitations of Eastern Europe and its aggressive and hostile policy towards Yugoslavia as Soviet imperialism.
imperialism: During the Age, European nations, helped by industrialization, intensified the process of colonizing, influencing, and annexing other parts of the world.
imperialism: Colonial expansion was also presented as a way to assert Portugal's prestige internationally.
imperialism: For some, imperialism designated a policy of idealism and philanthropy; others alleged that it was characterized by political self-interest, and a growing number associated it with capitalist greed.
imperialism: Other influential spokesmen included Lord Cromer, Lord Curzon, General Kitchener, Lord Milner, and the writer Rudyard Kipling.
imperialism: World War II decisively weakened Britain's position in the world, especially financially.
imperialism: The Early Muslim conquests and the pan-Islamic Caliphate have been described as religious imperialism motivated by Islamic supremacism.
imperialism: Lenin portrayed imperialism as monopoly capitalism at the global stage, resulting in colonial expansion in order to secure capitalist economic growth and profits.
imperialism: Also, in 1938–1939 Japan made an attempt to seize the territory of Soviet Russia and Mongolia, but suffered a serious defeats (see Battle of Lake Khasan, Battles of Khalkhin Gol).
imperialism: Roads, aqueducts, harbors, and public buildings facilitated communication, trade, and military movements across the vast empire.
imperialism: The success of this expedition emboldened the Japanese: not even the Americans could defeat the Taiwanese in the Formosa Expedition of 1867.
imperialism: They provided stability, security, and legal order for their subjects.
imperialism: The rhetoric of colonizers being racially superior appears still to have its impact.
imperialism: He felt that colonies did not pay for themselves, that the German bureaucratic system would not work well in the tropics and the diplomatic disputes over colonies would distract Germany from its central interest, Europe itself.
imperialism: The USSR provided great assistance to Kuomintang in 1926–1928 in the formation of a unified Chinese government (see Northern Expedition).
imperialism: Four months into the invasion of Ukraine, Putin compared himself to Russian emperor Peter the Great.
imperialism: In 1967 Frank claimed that "unequal exchange" (pricing controlled by the empire) itself reproduced empire.
imperialism: However, this peace was mostly a perceived one from Europe, and the period was still an almost uninterrupted series of colonial wars and disputes.
imperialism: During the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937, Japan's military invaded central China.
imperialism: Further divergence among historians can be attributed to varying theoretical perspectives regarding imperialism that are proposed by emerging academic schools of thought.
imperialism: The Portuguese Empire comprised the overseas possessions of Portugal from the 15th century until the mid-20th century.
imperialism: As a result, the country turned to imperialism and expansionism in part as a means of compensating for these shortcomings, adopting the national motto "Fukoku kyōhei" (富國強兵, "Enrich the state, strengthen the military").
imperialism: They have the duty to civilize the inferior races." J.
imperialism: The acquisition of Ukraine by Russia commenced in 1654 with the Pereiaslav Agreement.
imperialism: Cartography is "the art, science and technology of making maps" but this definition is problematic.
imperialism: Starting with the unification of China under the Qin dynasty, later Chinese dynasties continued to follow its form of expansions.
imperialism: During his analysis of 19th-century cartographic techniques, he highlights the use of blank space to denote unknown or unexplored territory.
imperialism: Impressionistic colonials could mingle with studious scholars or radical revolutionaries or so everything in between.
imperialism: During World War I, Japan took German-leased territories in China's Shandong Province, as well as the Mariana, Caroline, and Marshall Islands, and kept the islands as League of nations mandates.
imperialism: The British Conquest of India, its intervention against Mehemet Ali, the Anglo-Burmese Wars, the Crimean War, the Opium Wars and the Scramble for Africa to name the most notable conflicts mobilised ample military means to press Britain's lead in the global conquest Europe led across the century.
imperialism: The most notable example of Dutch imperialism is regarding Indonesia.
imperialism: This period coincided with the broader maximum territorial extent of the European imperial powers during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
imperialism: Following a long period of military setbacks against European powers, the Ottoman Empire gradually declined, losing control of much of its territory in Europe and Africa.
imperialism: They did not establish colonial school systems with the idea of furthering the ambitions of the local people, but rather exported the systems and methods in vogue in the mother nation.
imperialism: ISBN 978-1-4051-3539-9.
imperialism: To seek new markets and sources of raw materials, the Conservative Party under Disraeli launched a period of imperialist expansion in Egypt, South Africa, and elsewhere.
imperialism: The Russian Empire exploited and suppressed Cossacks hosts during this period, before turning them into the special military estate Sosloviye in the late 18th century.
imperialism: For example, depictions of opulent American lifestyles in the soap opera Dallas during the Cold War changed the expectations of Romanians; a more recent example is the influence of smuggled South Korean drama-series in North Korea.
imperialism: In the 17th century, following territorial losses on the Scandinavian Peninsula, Denmark-Norway began to develop colonies, forts, and trading posts in West Africa, the Caribbean, and the Indian subcontinent.
imperialism: However, the United States had a vastly stronger military and industrial base and defeated Japan, stripping it of conquests and returning its settlers back to Japan.
imperialism: The environmental determinist school of thought held that the environment in which certain people lived determined those persons' behaviours; and thus validated their domination.
imperialism: The French colonial empire of extended over 11,500,000 km2 (4,400,000 sq mi) at its height in the 1920s and had a population of 110 million people on the eve of World War II.
imperialism: Its "Second colonial empire" began with the seizure of Algiers in 1830 and came for the most part to an end with the granting of independence to Algeria in 1962.
imperialism: It began with the purchase in 1869 of Assab Bay on the Red Sea by an Italian navigation company which intended to establish a coaling station at the time the Suez Canal was being opened to navigation.
imperialism: Defining the East as a negative vision of the Western world, as its inferior, not only increased the sense-of-self of the West, but also was a way of ordering the East, and making it known to the West, so that it could be dominated and controlled.
imperialism: During this century, the population increased at a dramatic rate, accompanied by rapid urbanisation, causing significant social and economic stresses.
imperialism: Due to its long history of imperialist expansion, China has been seen by its neighboring countries as a threat due to its large population, giant economy, large military force as well as its territorial evolution throughout history.
imperialism: Encyclopædia Iranica Foundation.
imperialism: The Arabs refused to become patriotic and cultured Frenchmen and a unified educational system was impossible until the Pied-Noir and their Arab allies went into exile after 1962.
imperialism: In 1931 Japan took Manchuria from China.
imperialism: Herbert Lüthy notes that ex-colonial peoples themselves show no desire to undo the basic effects of this process.
imperialism: By the 1970s, historians such as David K.
imperialism: The Italian Empire (Impero italiano) comprised the overseas possessions of the Kingdom of Italy primarily in northeast Africa.
imperialism: That cultural differentiation was especially noticeable in the books and paintings of early Oriental studies, the European examinations of the Orient, which misrepresented the East as irrational and backward, the opposite of the rational and progressive West.
imperialism: For over 200 years, Japan maintained a feudal society during a period of relative isolation from the rest of the world.
imperialism: After losing its first Empire to the Americans, Britain then turned its attention towards Asia, Africa, and the Pacific.
imperialism: Under this doctrine, the French politician Jules Ferry could declare in 1883 that "Superior races have a right, because they have a duty.
imperialism: In Yarshater, Ehsan (ed.).
imperialism: In 1869 they took advantage of the defeat of the rebels of the Republic of Ezo to formally incorporate the island of Hokkaido into the Japanese Empire.
imperialism: Roosevelt expected that the United Nations would take up the problem of decolonization.
imperialism: Their combined work informed the study of imperialism and its impact on Europe, and contributed to reflections on the rise of the military-industrial complex in the United States from the 1950s.
imperialism: Imperial peripheries benefited from economic efficiency improved through the building of roads, other infrastructure and introduction of new technologies.
imperialism: Anti-imperialism gained a wide currency after the Second World War and at the onset of the Cold War as political movements in colonies of European powers promoted national sovereignty.
imperialism: He states that maps "contributed to empire by promoting, assisting, and legitimizing the extension of French and British power into West Africa".
imperialism: After 1946 the policy was to bring the best students to Paris for advanced training.
imperialism: Despite its rising population and increasingly industrialized economy, Japan lacked significant natural resources.
imperialism: According to Said, orientalism allowed Europe to establish itself as the superior and the norm, which justified its dominance over the essentialized Orient.
imperialism: Korea was annexed in 1910.
imperialism: As of 1913, the United Kingdom was the world's fourth economy, behind the U.S., Russia and Germany.
imperialism: During the First World War, Italy occupied southern Albania to prevent it from falling to Austria-Hungary.
imperialism: The Americans had far more money, as USAID coordinated and funded the activities of expert teams, and particularly of academic missions.
imperialism: Associated psychological tropes include the White Man's Burden and the idea of civilizing mission (French: mission civilatrice).
imperialism: The Eastern territories inhabited by a German majority since the Middle Ages were torn from Germany and became part of both Poland and the USSR as a result of the territorial reorganization established by the Potsdam Conference of the Allied powers in 1945.
imperialism: Schools for Italian settlers and selected local students were created, with curricula modeled on the Italian system, aiming to integrate the colonies culturally and politically into the empire.
imperialism: The French deeply resented the American invasion of their historical zone of cultural imperialism.
imperialism: Denmark-Norway's first colony was established at Tranquebar on India's southern coast in 1620.
imperialism: The French imperial history was marked by numerous wars, large and small, and also by significant help to France itself from the colonials in the world wars.
imperialism: British imperialism in some sparsely-inhabited regions applied a principle now termed Terra nullius (Latin expression which stems from Roman law meaning 'no man's land').
imperialism: (2009) [2006].
imperialism: Some anti-imperialist groups who opposed the United States supported the power of the Soviet Union, such as in Guevarism, while in Maoism this was criticized as social imperialism.
imperialism: Whereas they won the war in Algeria, de Gaulle decided to grant Algeria independence anyway in 1962.
imperialism: However, this internal colonialism faced resistance, as external colonialism did, but the anti-colonial presence was far less prominent due to the nearly complete dominance that the United States was able to assert over both indigenous peoples and African-Americans.
imperialism: The Philippines cost the United States much more than expected because of military action against rebels.
imperialism: France had its "First colonial empire" from 1534 until 1814, including New France (Canada, Acadia, Newfoundland and Louisiana), French West Indies (Saint-Domingue, Guadeloupe, Martinique), French Guiana, Senegal (Gorée), Mascarene Islands (Mauritius Island, Réunion) and French India.
imperialism: Educational institutions were limited, often focused on basic literacy and vocational training for selected local elites, while promoting Portuguese language and culture to integrate the colonies politically and culturally.
imperialism: Iceland became independent in 1944.
imperialism: The pseudo-sciences of Social Darwinism and theories of race formed an ideological underpinning and legitimation during this time.
imperialism: The Netherlands extracted wealth out of the East Indies.
imperialism: It has repeatedly sent troops to assist its former colonies in Africa in suppressing insurrections and coups d'état.
imperialism: Imperialism Entry in The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, 6th ed., Columbia University Press.
imperialism: Through the treatment of its indigenous peoples during westward expansion, the United States took on the form of an imperial power prior to any attempts at external imperialism.
imperialism: It was invested abroad because lower wages paid to workers overseas made for higher profits and higher rates of return, compared to domestic wages.
imperialism: Germany and Italy got little trade or raw materials from their empires.
imperialism: For centuries, Japan viewed the Ryukyu Islands as one of its provinces.
imperialism: Between 1800 and 1864, Imperial armies invaded south in the Russian conquest of the Caucasus, the Murid War, and the Russo-Circassian War.
imperialism: After 1814, when Norway was ceded to Sweden, Denmark retained what remained of Norway's great medieval colonial holdings.
imperialism: This technology gave European armies an advantage over their opponents, as armies in less-developed countries were still fighting with arrows, swords, and leather shields (e.g.
imperialism: Lenin's treatise became a standard textbook that flourished until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1989–91.
imperialism: African nationalists rejected such a public education system, which they perceived as an attempt to retard African development and maintain colonial superiority.
imperialism: Denmark–Norway (Denmark after 1814) possessed overseas colonies from 1536 until 1953.
imperialism: When Somalia became independent in 1960, Italy's eight-decade experiment with colonialism ended.
imperialism: The introduction of Roman citizenship, urban planning, and public institutions helped unify diverse populations and created a sense of shared identity.
imperialism: A second objective was the evangelization of subjugated indigenous populations residing in mineral-rich and strategically favorable locations.
imperialism: The importance of soft power is not lost on authoritarian regimes, which may oppose such influence with bans on foreign popular culture, control of the internet and of unauthorized satellite dishes, etc.
imperialism: Across the three major waves of European colonialism (the first in the Americas, the second in Asia and the last in Africa), environmental determinism served to place categorically indigenous people in a racial hierarchy.
imperialism: The Republic of Turkey was established.
imperialism: By the year 1670 Britain's imperialist ambitions were well off as she had colonies in Virginia, Massachusetts, Bermuda, Honduras, Antigua, Barbados, Jamaica and Nova Scotia.
imperialism: Some of these were later absorbed into the empire, while others were granted various types of autonomy during the course of centuries.
imperialism: The Ottoman Empire was an imperial state that lasted from 1299 to 1922.
imperialism: The Fascist government that came to power with Benito Mussolini in 1922 sought to increase the size of the Italian empire and to satisfy the claims of Italian irredentists.
imperialism: As the application of the term has expanded, its meaning has shifted along five distinct but often parallel axes: the moral, the economic, the systemic, the cultural, and the temporal.
imperialism: The tropical peoples were believed to be "less civilized" and in need of European guidance, therefore justifying colonial control as a civilizing mission.
imperialism: The Roman army was a key instrument of power, with disciplined legions stationed in strategic regions to maintain order and defend borders.
imperialism: Some have described the internal strife between various people groups as a form of imperialism or colonialism.
imperialism: The Turkish national movement, supported by Soviet Russia, achieved victory in the course of the Turkish War of Independence, and the parties signed and ratified the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923 and 1924.
imperialism: (2017) [2008].
imperialism: The southern campaigns involved a series of Russo-Persian Wars, which began with the Persian Expedition of 1796, resulting in the acquisition of Georgia as a protectorate.
imperialism: It became a moral justification to lift the world up to French standards by bringing Christianity and French culture.
imperialism: In mid-twentieth century Canada, the words "imperialism" and "colonialism" were used in English Canadian discourse to instead portray Canada as a victim of economic and cultural penetration by the United States.
imperialism: Imperialism is the maintaining and extending of power over foreign nations, particularly through expansionism, employing both hard power (military and economic power) and soft power (diplomatic power and cultural imperialism).
imperialism: According to Painter/Jeffrey, colonialism refers to one country in de facto control of another land (in many cases, colonies had no history as a recognized nation), while imperialism lately refers to less explicit political/economic dominance.
imperialism: At the beginning of the 17th century the empire contained 32 provinces and numerous vassal states.
imperialism: A military move to gain access to them was deemed necessary, and so Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, bringing the United States to World War II.
imperialism: At its apex there were colonies on four continents: Europe, North America, Africa and Asia.
imperialism: Tianxia's idea of hierarchy gave Chinese a privileged position and was justified through the promise of order and peace.
imperialism: The Polish–Russian War of 1792 took place after Polish nobility from the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth wrote the Constitution of 3 May 1791.
imperialism: For example, throughout Latin America "whiteness" is still prized today and various forms of blanqueamiento (whitening) are common.
imperialism: This sparked a period of rapid industrialization driven in part by a Japanese desire for self-sufficiency.
imperialism: The French set up schools based on the scientific method and French culture.
imperialism: In the early 19th century, the Industrial Revolution began to transform Britain; by the time of the Great Exhibition in 1851 the country was described as the "workshop of the world".
imperialism: This last conflict led to the ethnic cleansing of Circassians from their lands.
imperialism: Imperialism and colonialism have been distinguished by scholars such as Young who wrote that imperialism implements state policy, while colonialism may reflect commercial intentions, although supported by force.
imperialism: It was forced in the peace treaty of 1947 to relinquish sovereignty over all its colonies.
imperialism: They took steps to bring the islands in their jurisdiction: in 1872 the Japanese Ryukyu Domain was declared, and in 1874 a retaliatory incursion to Taiwan was sent, which was a success.
imperialism: Participation in the African slave trade and the subsequent treatment of its 12 to 15 million Africans is viewed by some to be a more modern extension of America's "internal colonialism".
imperialism: The Pied-Noir (Catholic migrants from Europe) welcomed this.
imperialism: While leveraging colonialism in the same geographic operating theater as its imperial rivals, Spain maintained distinct imperial objectives and instituted a unique form of colonialism in support of its imperial agenda.
imperialism: However, scandal after scandal regarding atrocities in the Congo Free State led the international community to force the government of Belgium to take it over in 1908, and it became much less profitable.
imperialism: Pan-Africanism is a movement across Africa and the world that came as a result of imperial ideas splitting apart African nations and pitting them against each other.
imperialism: "Safavid Dynasty".
imperialism: European chemists made new explosives that made artillery much more deadly.
imperialism: However the US may have unsuccessfully attempted to capture Canada in the War of 1812.
imperialism: A resurgence came in the late 19th century with the Scramble for Africa and major additions in Asia and the Middle East.
imperialism: By the 18th century, the Russian Empire extended its control to the Pacific, peacefully forming a common border with the Qing Empire and Empire of Japan.
imperialism: Roosevelt was opposed to European colonialism, especially in India.
imperialism: Decolonization movements arose nearly everywhere in the Empire, resulting in Indian independence and partition in 1947, the self-governing dominions break away from the empire in 1949, and the establishment of independent states in the 1950s.
imperialism: In 1917, it established a protectorate over Albania, which remained in place until 1920.
imperialism: Tunisia was exceptional.
imperialism: The term imperialism was originally introduced into English in its present sense in the late 1870s by opponents of the allegedly aggressive and ostentatious imperial policies of British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli.
imperialism: Within 25 years, German South West Africa had committed the Herero and Namaqua genocide in modern-day Namibia, the first genocide of the 20th century.
imperialism: The victory of the Chinese Communists in the civil war of 1946–1949 relied on the great help of the USSR (see Chinese Civil War).
imperialism: With the establishment of trading posts in India, the British were able to maintain strength relative to other empires such as the Portuguese who already had set up trading posts in India.
imperialism: By the early 1900s, Japan was a naval power that could hold its own against an established European power as it defeated Russia.
imperialism: However, the German involvement in the seizure of overseas territories was negligible until the end of the 19th century.
imperialism: However, in the 1850s, military pressure from the United States and other world powers coerced Japan to open itself to the global market, resulting in an end to the country's isolation.
imperialism: However, scholars sometimes find it difficult to illustrate the difference between the two.
imperialism: Empires represented only a particular phase in the ever-changing relationship of Europe with the rest of the world: analogies with industrial systems or investment in real estate were simply misleading.
imperialism: Imperialism was common in the form of expansionism through vassalage, irredentism, and conquest.
imperialism: The French educators sought to preserving French culture among the Vietnamese elites and relied on the Mission Culturelle – the heir of the colonial Direction of Education – and its prestigious high schools.
imperialism: Domestically, political attitudes favoured free trade and laissez-faire policies and a gradual widening of the voting franchise.
imperialism: Russia is also accused of neo-colonialism in Africa, mainly through the activities of the Wagner Group and Africa Corps.
imperialism: In 1965 Nkrumah went with calling neocolonialism "the last stage of imperialism", linking it to trade, bases, cultural dominance and the IMF.
imperialism: One by one the smaller colonies were lost or sold.
imperialism: At its height in the early 20th century, the Portuguese Empire controlled territories in Africa, Asia, and South America, including Angola, Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde, São Tomé and Príncipe, Goa, Macau, and East Timor.
imperialism: Due to the vast imperialist ambitions of European countries, Britain had several clashes with France.
imperialism: The Russian colonization of Central and Eastern Europe and Siberia and treatment of the resident indigenous peoples has been compared to European colonization of the Americas, with similar negative impacts on the indigenous Siberians as upon the indigenous peoples of the Americas.
imperialism: Kseniya Oksamytna wrote that in Russia media, the invasion was accompanied by discourses of Russian "supremacy".
imperialism: One year later, a war erupted in the Philippines causing business, labor and government leaders in the US to condemn America's occupation in the Philippines as they also denounced them for causing the deaths of many Filipinos.
imperialism: Some theoreticians on the non-Communist left have emphasized the structural or systemic character of "imperialism".
imperialism: The United States achieved significant territorial concessions from Mexico during the Mexican–American War.
imperialism: Portuguese authorities established administrative systems to govern local populations and maintain control over trade and resources.
imperialism: To obtain raw materials, Europe expanded imports from other countries and from the colonies.
imperialism: Roger Louis, "In their view, historians have been mesmerized by formal empire and maps of the world with regions colored red.
imperialism: In 1978 Edward Said used the term to describe domination and subordination reflecting an imperial core and a periphery.
imperialism: Ho Chi Minh and other young radicals in Paris formed the French Communist party in 1920.
imperialism: Most of these colonies were either closed down or collapsed quickly for various reasons.
imperialism: Local elites were often co-opted into the administration, ensuring loyalty and effective governance.
imperialism: Such writers have expanded the period associated with the term so that it now designates neither a policy, nor a short space of decades in the late 19th century, but a world system extending over a period of centuries, often going back to Colonization and, in some accounts, to the Crusades.
imperialism: According to Historians Daniel Hedinger and Nadin Heé, the widespread use of the term "Age of Empire" for this specific period reflects a Eurocentric bias in terms of time.
imperialism: The establishment of the German colonial empire started with German New Guinea in 1884.
imperialism: In Orientalism (1978), Edward Said said that the West developed the concept of The Orient—an imagined geography of the Eastern world—which functions as an essentializing discourse that represents neither the ethnic diversity nor the social reality of the Eastern world.
imperialism: As a result of winning the Russo-Japanese War in 1905, Japan took part of Sakhalin Island from Russia.
imperialism: During the Second World War (1939–1945), Italy occupied British Somaliland, parts of south-eastern France, western Egypt and most of Greece, but then lost those conquests and its African colonies, including Ethiopia, to the invading allied forces by 1943.
imperialism: Newman, Andrew J.
imperialism: However, public opinion and elite opinion in Germany demanded colonies for reasons of international prestige, so Bismarck was forced to oblige.
imperialism: Rosa Luxemburg, The Accumulation of Capital: A Contribution to an Economic Explanation of Imperialism.
imperialism: In 1821–1829 the Greeks in the Greek War of Independence were assisted by Russia, Britain and France.
imperialism: Roman administration relied on a system of provinces, each governed by officials appointed by the emperor.
imperialism: By the 1840s, the United Kingdom had adopted a highly successful policy of free trade that gave it dominance in the trade of much of the world.
imperialism: Never formally revoked, it stopped being implemented after 1932.
imperialism: According to Wm.
imperialism: In this context, colonialism functions as an instrument designed to achieve specific imperialist objectives.
imperialism: Despite political instability, economic challenges, and external invasions, the Eastern Roman Empire preserved Roman traditions, administration, and law for nearly a thousand years, influencing medieval and modern Europe.
imperialism: Ratzel believed expansion was necessary for a state's survival and this argument dominated the discipline of geopolitics for decades.
imperialism: The United States purchased the Danish West Indies in 1917.
imperialism: Political geographers such as Friedrich Ratzel of Germany and Halford Mackinder of Britain also supported imperialism.
imperialism: Some geographic scholars under colonizing empires divided the world into climatic zones.
imperialism: Colonialism attempts to develop resources for extraction by the colonizer,although not always successfully (as in Santo Domingo after 1520).
imperialism: Conceptually, imagined geographies explain the limitations of the imperialist understanding of the societies of the different spaces inhabited by the non–European Other.
imperialism: by the races of highest 'social efficiency'".
imperialism: Roman culture, law, and citizenship were extended gradually to conquered peoples.
imperialism: Today, the only remaining vestiges are two originally Norwegian colonies that are currently within the Danish Realm, the Faroe Islands and Greenland; the Faroes were a Danish county until 1948, while Greenland's colonial status ceased in 1953.
imperialism: The second expansion of Europe was a complex historical process in which political, social and emotional forces in Europe and on the periphery were more influential than calculated imperialism.
imperialism: That by reducing the East into cultural essences, the imperial discourse uses place-based identities to create cultural difference and psychologic distance between "We, the West" and "They, the East" and between "Here, in the West" and "There, in the East".
imperialism: These scholars believed that Northern Europe and the Mid-Atlantic temperate climate produced a hard-working, moral, and upstanding human being.
imperialism: Much of the debate was pioneered by such theorists as John A.
imperialism: After its second invasion of Ethiopia in 1936, Italy occupied Ethiopia until 1941.The Italian Empire is generally considered to have reached its greatest territorial extent between 1936 and 1940, following the conquest of Ethiopia and the proclamation of Italian East Africa.
imperialism: Japan occupied Taiwan for the rest of 1874 and then left owing to Chinese pressures, but in 1879 it finally annexed the Ryukyu Islands.
imperialism: Lenin, Imperialism: The Highest Stage of Capitalism, International Publishers, New York, 1997, ISBN 0717800989.
imperialism: This took place in a large number of military invasions of the lands east, west, and south of it.
imperialism: Westview Press.
imperialism: Few gave it much thought at the time, but this was the first move in the Japanese expansionism series.
imperialism: The empire allied with Germany in World War I, aiming to recover lost territories, but dissolved following its decisive defeat.
imperialism: Military innovations, fortifications, and strategic roads enabled Rome to control distant territories and respond quickly to threats.
imperialism: The Royal Geographical Society of London and other geographical societies in Europe had great influence and were able to fund travelers who would come back with tales of their discoveries.
imperialism: The expansion of Rome was driven by a combination of military conquest, economic interests, and cultural assimilation.
