india: They were imitated all over India and led to both the resurgence of Hinduism and the development of all modern languages of the subcontinent.
india: Migration from rural to urban areas has been an important dynamic in India's recent history.
india: Whether a dance is classical is determined by the Sangeet Natak Academi, the Indian government's organisation for performing arts.
india: India has unresolved territorial disputes with China and with Pakistan.
india: Primary schools taught literacy, so local diversity limited its growth.
india: Virtually no art survives from a long period following the Indus Valley Civilisation.
india: In response, the system of national parks and protected areas, first established in 1935, was expanded substantially.
india: Their long occupation, initially in varying forms of isolation as hunter-gatherers, has made the region highly diverse, second only to Africa in human genetic diversity.
india: The 2011 Census of India, the last conducted by the Indian government, gives the following breakdown:
india: It is one of the world's fastest-growing economies with an average annual growth rate exceeding 5% from 1990 to 2010.
india: In 1965, after bitter opposition from South India to Hindi becoming the sole official language, a compromise was reached to where English would continue to be an "associate official language" indefinitely.
india: Viswanathan Anand became the undisputed Chess World Champion in 2007 and held the status until 2013.
india: However, India has been hamstrung by persistent poverty, both rural and urban; religious- and caste-related violence; Maoist-inspired Naxalite insurgencies; and separatism in Jammu and Kashmir and in Northeast India.
india: It is the seventh-largest country by area, the most populous country in the world and, since its independence in 1947, the world's most populous democracy.
india: India's land is megadiverse with four biodiversity hotspots.
india: Disaffection with the company also grew during this time and set off the Indian Rebellion of 1857.
india: The middle and stiffer layer continued to push into Tibet, causing crustal thickening of the Tibetan Plateau.
india: Increasingly, in urban northern India, the sari is no longer the apparel of everyday wear, though they remain popular on formal occasions.
india: By the late 1960s, the Soviet Union was India's largest arms supplier.
india: The most significant import of cooking techniques into India during the last millennium occurred during the Mughal Empire, spreading into northern India from regions to its northwest, along with dishes such as pilaf.
india: After the rebellion was suppressed in 1858, the East India Company was disbanded, and the British government began to directly administer India.
india: In fortified cities, social differentiation by caste, or varna, had emerged.
india: Their work, completed two centuries before the invention of calculus in Europe, provided the first example of a power series.
india: A modern rendering of the historical name Bharatavarsha, which applied originally to North India, Bharat gained increased currency from the mid-19th century as a native name for India.
india: India, officially the Republic of India, is a country in South Asia.
india: There are six recognised national parties in the country, including the Indian National Congress (generally, "the Congress") and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP); there are over 50 regional parties.
india: According to an Indian government study, an additional 21 million girls are unwanted and do not receive adequate care.
india: India has two archipelagos: the Lakshadweep coral atolls off India's south-western coast; and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a volcanic chain in the Andaman Sea.
india: According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the English proper noun "India" derives most immediately from the Classical Latin India, a reference to a loosely-defined historical region of Asia stretching from South Asia to the borders of China.
india: 500 CE, is often regarded as a classical period whose influence lingered for many centuries after; it saw a new dominance of Hindu sculpture, as at the Elephanta Caves.
india: During this time, its nominal per capita income increased from US$64 annually to US$2,601, and its literacy rate from 16.6% to 74%.
india: India has the largest population of Hindus, Sikhs, and Jains, the third-largest population of Muslims (after Indonesia and Pakistan) and the ninth largest of Buddhists.
india: All states, as well as the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, Puducherry and the National Capital Territory of Delhi, have elected legislatures and governments following the Westminster system.
india: Early in the 2nd millennium Muslim armies from Central Asia intermittently overran India's northern plains.
india: The Indian economy has since become a fast-growing major economy and a hub for information technology, with an expanding middle class.
india: Eschewing tribal bonds and Islamic identity, especially under Akbar, the Mughals united their far-flung realms through loyalty—expressed through a Persianised culture—to an emperor who had near-divine status.
india: The prime minister of India is the head of government and exercises most executive power.
india: Modern humans arrived on the Indian subcontinent from Africa no later than 55,000 years ago.
india: During the rule of the founder's grandson, Ashoka (ca.
india: The Dravidian languages of India were supplanted in the north, creating a broad language family-divide, with the Indo-Aryan languages being spoken mainly in the north and west, and the Dravidian in some parts of east India and most of the south.
india: Noted for nonviolent resistance after 1920, it became the primary factor in ending British rule.
india: The sultanate's raiding and weakening of the regional kingdoms of South India paved the way for the indigenous Vijayanagara Empire.
india: The Indian biotech industry grew by 15.1% in 2012–2013, increasing its revenues from ₹204.4 billion (Indian rupees) to ₹235.24 billion (US$3.94 billion at June 2013 exchange rates).
india: A later landmark in Indian mathematics was the development of the series expansions for trigonometric functions (sine, cosine, and arc tangent) by mathematicians of the Kerala school in the 15th century CE.
india: Over the following centuries a distinctly Indian style of sculpting the human figure developed, with less interest in articulating precise anatomy than ancient Greek sculpture but showing smoothly flowing forms expressing prana ("breath" or life-force).
india: The Śulba Sūtras (literally, "Aphorisms of the Chords" in Vedic Sanskrit) (c.
india: Trigonometry was further advanced in India, and the modern definitions of sine and cosine were developed there.
india: There are over a quarter of a million local government bodies at city, town, district, block and village levels.
india: It strongly supported decolonisation in Africa and Asia in the 1950s, and played a leading role in the Non-Aligned Movement.
india: The central legislature has two houses: the Lok Sabha, whose delegates are directly elected by the people in general elections every five years, and the Rajya Sabha, whose members are nominated by the elected representatives in the states.
india: Dance in India has drawn heavily from Indian classical dance traditions.
india: For weddings and formal occasions, men in the middle and upper classes often wear bandhgala, or short Nehru jackets, with pants, with the groom and his groomsmen sporting sherwanis and churidars.
india: Its Andaman and Nicobar Islands share a maritime border with Myanmar, Thailand and Indonesia.
india: Significant mathematics began in India in the first millennium BCE.
india: The slowing down of the overall population growth rate was due to the sharp decline in the growth rate in rural areas since 1991.
india: Many Indian species have descended from those of Gondwana, the southern supercontinent from which India separated more than 100 million years ago.
india: The pervasive and ecologically devastating human encroachment of recent decades has critically endangered Indian wildlife.
india: Domestication of grain-producing plants (including barley) and animals (including humped zebu cattle) occurred here.
india: Its hymns recorded the early dawnings of Hinduism in India.
india: The use of stitched clothes became widespread after Muslim rule was established by the Delhi sultanate (c.
india: Several traditional indigenous sports such as kabaddi, kho kho, pehlwani and gilli-danda, and also martial arts, such as Kalarippayattu and marma adi remain popular.
india: In 2017, air pollution killed 1.24 million Indians.
india: India is one of the more successful cricket teams, having won two Cricket World Cups, three T20 World Cups, and three Champions Trophies.
india: 1300 CE) and continued by the Mughal Empire (c.
india: The Preamble to the Constitution of India declares India to be a secular state, and freedom of religion to be a fundamental right ("...
india: By the sixth century, the Pallavas had grown into a regional power.
india: However, commercial cropping, especially in the newly canalled Punjab, led to increased food production for internal consumption.
india: India's coastline measures 7,517 kilometres (4,700 mi) in length; of this distance, 5,423 kilometres (3,400 mi) belong to peninsular India and 2,094 kilometres (1,300 mi) to the Andaman, Nicobar, and Lakshadweep island chains.
india: By this time, with its economic power severely curtailed by the British parliament and having effectively been made an arm of British administration, the East India Company began more consciously to enter non-economic arenas, including education, social reform, and culture.
india: In 1950, there were 14 scheduled languages: Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Kashmiri, Malayalam, Marathi, Oriya, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.
india: Their sponsorship and promotion, however, has continued in secular, modern India.
india: It has the power to both strike down union or state laws which contravene the constitution and invalidate any government action it deems unconstitutional.
india: In 2001, over 70% lived in rural areas.
india: The compromise resolution became articles 343–351 of India's constitution, which came into effect on 26 January 1950.
india: The settling of the Ganges river plain took place during the next millennium, when large swathes of the river system's adjoining regions were deforested, at times by setting fires, or later by employing iron implements, and prepared for agriculture.
india: In 2018 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease was the leading cause of death after heart disease.
india: By the mid-millennium two new ethical and social systems had arisen: Jainism based on the teachings of Mahavira and Buddhism on those of the Buddha.
india: The appointment in 1848 of Lord Dalhousie as Governor General of the East India Company set the stage for changes essential to a modern state: the consolidation and demarcation of sovereignty, the surveillance of the population, and the education of citizens.
india: Among them Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad, in decreasing order by population.
india: All Hindus fall broadly into four castes, or varnas: Brahmin, or priests, at the top; below them Kshatriya, or warriors; further below, Vaishya, or merchants and farmers; and at the bottom, Shudra, or the service class.
india: Important tributaries of the Ganges include the Yamuna and the Kosi.
india: There was an increase in the number of large-scale famines, and, despite the risks of infrastructure development borne by Indian taxpayers, little industrial employment was generated for Indians.
india: Although at first disruptive for the Indian elites, the sultanate largely left its vast non-Muslim subject population to its own laws and customs.
india: The foundation of a typical Indian meal is a cereal cooked plainly and complemented with savoury dishes.
india: The best-known classical dance is Bharatnatyam, which began in the temple dances of Tamil devadasis.
india: Many historians consider this to be the onset of India's colonial period.
india: In 2008, India's share of world trade was 1.6%; in 2021, it was the world's ninth-largest importer and the sixteenth-largest exporter.
india: Embracing a strong Shaivite tradition and building upon the military technology of the sultanate, the empire came to control a large portion of peninsular India, and was to influence South Indian society for long afterwards.
india: Although meat is eaten widely, the proportional consumption of meat is low.
india: The decimal number system in use today was first recorded in Indian mathematics.
india: In the modern era Srinivasa Ramanujan made fundamental contributions to number theory.
india: A devdasi who went on to attain national and international prominence was Thanjavur Balasaraswati.
india: During this time, pastoral peoples, whose land had been cleared to make way for the growing agricultural economy, were accommodated within caste society, as were new non-traditional ruling classes.
india: However, volcanism and climatic changes later caused the extinction of many endemic Indian forms.
india: It is also commonly worn with an Indian blouse, or choli, which serves as the primary upper-body garment, the sari's end—passing over the shoulder—covering the midriff and obscuring the upper body's contours.
india: At the end of 2011, the Indian IT industry employed 2.8 million professionals, generated revenues close to US$100 billion equalling 7.5% of Indian GDP, and contributed 26% of India's merchandise exports.
india: The Constituent Assembly of India abolished untouchability in 1947, the Republic of India did more formally in 1950, and India has since enacted other anti-discriminatory laws and social welfare initiatives related to caste.
india: The sari was traditionally wrapped around the lower body and the shoulder.
india: Its government lasted two years; Morarji Desai and Charan Singh served as prime ministers.
india: The definition of fundamental rights is based on the Constitution of the United States, and the constitutional directives, or goals of endeavor, are based on the Constitution of Ireland.
india: Ancient paintings have only survived at a few sites, of which the crowded scenes of court life in the Ajanta Caves are some of the most important.
india: The cooked cereal could be steamed rice; chapati, a thin unleavened bread; idli, a steamed breakfast cake; or dosa, a griddled pancake.
india: The relative peace maintained by the empire during much of the 17th century was a factor in India's economic expansion, resulting in greater patronage of painting, literary forms, textiles, and architecture.
india: The federal structure was conspicuous for the strength of the central government, which exclusively exercised control of defence, foreign affairs, railways, ports, and currency.
india: India is a megadiverse country, a term employed for 17 countries that host high biological diversity and contain many species indigenous, or endemic, to them.
india: The Himalayas prevent cold Central Asian katabatic winds from blowing in, keeping the bulk of the Indian subcontinent warmer than most locations at similar latitudes.
india: Widespread state intervention and regulation largely walled the economy off from the outside world.
india: Most of the earliest large sculpture is Buddhist, either excavated from Buddhist stupas such as Sanchi, Sarnath and Amaravati, or is rock cut reliefs at sites such as Ajanta, Karla and Ellora.
india: Immediately south of the emerging Himalayas, plate movement created a vast crescent-shaped trough that rapidly filled with river-borne sediment and now constitutes the Indo-Gangetic Plain.
india: About 20% to 39% of India's population consists of vegetarians.
india: The sultanate was to control much of North India and to make many forays into South India.
india: India is the habitat for 8.6% of all mammals, 13.7% of bird species, 7.9% of reptile species, 6% of amphibian species, 12.2% of fish species, and 6.0% of all flowering plant species.
india: After a military operation against Sikh militants occupying the Golden Temple in Amritsar, Indira Gandhi was assassinated by a Sikh bodyguard on October 31, 1984.
india: Among the garments introduced during this time and still commonly worn are: the shalwars and pyjamas, both styles of trousers, and the tunics kurta and kameez.
india: The supreme court has original jurisdiction over cases involving fundamental rights and over disputes between states and the centre and has appellate jurisdiction over the high courts.
india: In the 2004 general election, the NDA was defeated.
india: Painted manuscripts of religious texts survive from Eastern India from 10th century onwards, most of the earliest being Buddhist and later Jain.
india: The life expectancy at birth has increased from 49.7 years in 1970–1975 to 72.0 years in 2023.
india: 700–400 BCE) contain the earliest extant verbal expression of the Pythagorean theorem (although very likely it had been known to the Old Babylonians.) All mathematical works were orally transmitted until approximately 500 BCE; thereafter, they were transmitted both orally and in manuscript form.
india: In 1951, the rates were 18%, 27% and 9%.
india: The Pashupati seal, excavated in Mohenjo-daro, Pakistan, in 1928–29, is the best known.
india: In 1996, the BJP briefly formed a government after winning the general election.
india: Many women marry before reaching 18, which is their legal marriageable age; child marriages are not uncommon, especially in rural areas.
india: The Eighth Schedule of India's Constitution also recognises 22 languages, including Hindi but not English, which the government is obligated to develop.
india: In 1921, the rates 7%, 12% and 2%.
india: The diversity of Indian food served worldwide has been partially concealed by the dominance of Punjabi cuisine.
india: The retreat of Himalayan glaciers has adversely affected the flow rate of the major Himalayan rivers, including the Ganges and the Brahmaputra.
india: Moderately dense forest, whose canopy density is between 40% and 70%, occupies 9.39% of India's land area.
india: After the 1998 Indian general election, Atal Bihari Vajpayee of the BJP became prime minister; his government was short-lived due to the lack of a continued mandate.
india: Expanding commerce during Mughal rule gave rise to new Indian commercial and political elites along the coasts of southern and eastern India.
india: India was the world's second-largest textile exporter after China in the 2013 calendar year.
india: India has over 900 universities, 40,000 colleges and 1.5 million schools.
india: India hosts more than five hundred wildlife sanctuaries and eighteen biosphere reserves, four of which are part of the World Network of Biosphere Reserves; its eighty-nine wetlands are registered under the Ramsar Convention.
india: However, the earliest known modern human fossils in South Asia date to about 30,000 years ago.
india: In the Indian parliamentary system, the executive is subordinate to the legislature; the prime minister and their council are directly responsible to the lower house of the parliament.
india: The Mughal Empire ushered in two centuries of economic expansion and relative peace, and left a rich architectural legacy.
india: India emits about 7% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
india: Gradually expanding rule of the British East India Company turned India into a colonial economy but consolidated its sovereignty.
india: Indian classical music has Vedic origins, and split in the 13th century into the two main traditions of Hindustani and Carnatic music.
india: Critically endangered species include the gharial, a crocodilian; the great Indian bustard; and the Indian white-rumped vulture, which has become nearly extinct by having ingested the carrion of diclofenac-treated cattle.
india: The two went to war in 1947, 1965, 1971, and 1999.
india: Some sources consider the dance-dramas Chhau of Jharkhand, West Bengal, and Odisha and Yakshagana of Karnataka to also belong to the classical tradition.
india: The first post-colonial census, conducted in 1951, counted 361 million people.
india: India remained a member of the Commonwealth of Nations after becoming a republic in 1950.
india: Indian music has influenced western genres, including rock and jazz musicians during the 1960s counterculture.
india: For men, a similar but shorter length of cloth, the dhoti, has served as a lower-body garment.
india: India's foreign exchange remittances of US$100 billion in 2022, the highest in the world, were contributed to its economy by 32 million Indians working in foreign countries.
india: Further etymons are: Hellenistic Greek India (Ἰνδία); Ancient Greek Indos (Ἰνδός), or the River Indus; Achaemenian Old Persian Hindu (an eastern province of the Achaemenid Empire); and Sanskrit Sindhu, or "river," but specifically the Indus river, and by extension its well-settled basin.
india: Examples are dance-dramas based on the ancient Indian animal fables, Panchatantra, and Nehru's mid-century meditation on Indian history, The Discovery of India.
india: The rights promised to Indians were granted slowly, but technological changes were introduced, and modern ideas of education and the public life took root.
india: India was no longer exporting manufactured goods as it long had, but instead supplying the British Empire with raw materials.
india: It has disputes over Kashmir with its neighbours, Pakistan and China, unresolved since the mid-20th century.
india: Towards the end of the 20th century, innovations in British South Asian music and dance, such as Post-Bhangra, fed back into dance in India.
india: The Government of India Act 1935 was used as a model and framework.
india: Throughout India's history, religion has been an important part of its culture.
india: There was probably originally far more in wood, which is lost.
india: India accounts for the bulk of the Indian subcontinent, lying atop the Indian tectonic plate, and a part of the Indo-Australian Plate.
india: India contains 172 IUCN-designated threatened animal species, or 2.9% of endangered forms.
india: There are also small numbers of speakers of Tai–Kadai, Andamanese, and minor language families and isolates.
india: In 2006, the share of external trade in India's GDP stood at 24%, up from 6% in 1985.
india: In 1972, India enacted the Wildlife Protection Act and Project Tiger to safeguard crucial wilderness; the Forest Conservation Act was enacted in 1980 and amendments added in 1988.
india: India has two natural zones of thorn forest, one in the Deccan Plateau, immediately east of the Western Ghats, and the other in the western part of the Indo-Gangetic plain, now turned into rich agricultural land by irrigation, its features no longer visible.
india: The Indian climate is strongly influenced by the Himalayas and the Thar Desert, both of which drive the economically and culturally pivotal summer and winter monsoons.
india: After the elections, Congress emerged as the largest single party; a new Congress leader, P.
india: Major peninsular rivers, whose steeper gradients prevent their waters from flooding, include the Godavari, the Mahanadi, the Kaveri, and the Krishna, which also drain into the Bay of Bengal; and the Narmada and the Tapti, which drain into the Arabian Sea.
india: The rise of the two religions was a backdrop to the emergence of the first loose-knit geographically extensive power in South Asia, the Maurya Empire.
india: Thousands of seals from the Indus Valley civilisation of the third millennium BCE have been found, usually carved with animals, but also some with human figures.
india: The Indian economy has been among the ten largest economies in the world since 2010.
india: India bears a disproportionately large burden of the world's tuberculosis rates, with World Health Organization (WHO) statistics for 2022 estimating 2.8 million new infections annually, accounting for 26% of the global total.
india: Among endemics are the vulnerable hooded leaf monkey and the threatened Beddome's toad of the Western Ghats.
india: Singh became the first prime minister to be re-elected after Jawaharlal Nehru in 1962.
india: Its evidence today is found in the Rig Veda—the oldest scripture associated with what later became Hinduism—which was composed by Indo-Aryan-speaking tribes migrating east from what is today northern Afghanistan and across the Punjab region.
india: In the following decades constitutional amendments added others: Sindhi (1967), Nepali, Manipuri, and Konkani (1992), Maithili, Dogri, Santali and Bodo (2004).
india: Indian merchants, scholars, and sometimes armies were involved in this transmission; Southeast Asians took the initiative as well, with many sojourning in Indian seminaries and translating Buddhist and Hindu texts into their languages.
india: India has reduced its poverty rate, though at the cost of increasing economic inequality.
india: In recent decades India's improved education system is often cited as one of the main contributors to its economic development.
india: Rice was partially cooked and layered alternately with sauteed meat, the pot sealed tightly, and slow cooked according to another Persian cooking technique, to produce biryani, a feature of festive dining in many parts of India.
india: Official website of the Government of India
Government of India Web Directory
General information
india: Averaging an economic growth rate of 7.5% for several years before 2007, India has more than doubled its hourly wage rates during the first decade of the 21st century.
india: Modern Indian pop takes influences from classical, folk, and western pop music.
india: Onions, garlic, almonds, and spices were added to the simple yogurt marinade of Persia.
india: As of 2026, air quality reports show that not a single Indian city meets the WHO's safety guidelines.
india: Instead, it balanced and pacified them through new administrative practices and diverse and inclusive ruling elites, leading to more systematic, centralised, and uniform rule.
india: India's capacity to generate electrical power is 300 gigawatts, of which 42 gigawatts is renewable.
india: In south India, the Vijayanagara Empire created a long-lasting composite Hindu culture.
india: In the 6th and 7th centuries, the first devotional hymns were composed in Tamil.
india: In the 2014 general election, the BJP under Narendra Modi became the first political party since 1984 to win an absolute majority.
india: India also has local and modern dance traditions.
india: Concurrently, the dance was rehabilitated as a "pure" art form, with Rukmini Devi Arundale as a prominent figure.
india: India's defining geologic processes began approximately 70 million years ago, when the Indian Plate, then part of the southern supercontinent Gondwana, began a north-eastward drift caused by seafloor spreading to its south-west, and later, south and south-east.
india: In the Punjab, Sikhism emerged, rejecting institutionalised religion.
india: Since the end of the Cold War, India has increased its economic, strategic, and military cooperation with the United States and the European Union.
india: By the early 18th century, with the lines between commercial enterprise and political sovereignty increasingly blurred, European chartered companies—notably the English East India Company—solidified their presence through fortified coastal outposts.
india: The empire's period was notable for creativity in art, architecture, inscriptions, and produced texts, but also for the declining rights of women in the mainstream Indo-Aryan speaking regions.
india: All were capped by the advent of independence in 1947, but tempered by the partition of India into two states: India and Pakistan.
india: The 522-million-worker Indian labour force is the world's second largest, as of 2017.
india: The human sex ratio, according to the 2011 census, is 940 females per 1,000 males.
india: India's constitution was adopted in 1950 and established a secular, democratic republic.
india: Parcheesi is derived from Pachisi another traditional Indian pastime, which in early modern times was played on a giant marble court by Mughal emperor Akbar.
india: Untouchability is illegal (Article 17) and caste distinctions are derecognized (Articles 15(2) and 16(2)).
india: The constitution describes a federal state with a parliamentary system of democracy.
india: Elections were held again in 1999.
india: After cordial relations with China during the greater part of the 1950s, India and China went to war in 1962; India was widely thought to have been decisively defeated.
india: Climate change in India is often thought to be the cause.
india: Shalwars are atypically wide at the waist but narrow to a cuffed bottom.
india: The custom of endogamy, or marrying within one's subcaste, however, makes caste a hereditary label, not of one occupational choice, and has caused the caste system, therefore, to become entrenched.
india: After Nehru died in office in May 1964, Lal Bahadur Shastri was unanimously chosen by the Congress to be parliamentary leader, and thus prime minister.
india: Technological changes—among them, railways, canals, and the telegraph—were introduced not long after their introduction in Europe.
india: The term Bharat (Bhārat; pronounced [ˈbʱaːɾət] ), mentioned in both Indian epic poetry and the Constitution of India, is used in its variations by many Indian languages.
india: Chronicling the life of the Buddha was central to the beginnings of recorded history in India.
india: These are sometimes called "scheduled languages".
india: The World Factbook.
india: Indian royalty, big and small, and the temples they patronised drew citizens in significant numbers to the capital cities, which became economic hubs as well.
india: The official language of India's federal government was chosen by the Constituent Assembly of India in September 1949 after three years of debate between two opposing camps.
india: During the 1930s, the British enacted slow legislative reform; the Indian National Congress won victories in the resulting elections.
india: By 1967, however, India was able to fend off Chinese excursions into Sikkim.
india: Cricket is the most popular sport in India.
india: In 2011 Kerala had the highest literary rate, with 93.91% literacy, and Bihar the lowest, with 63.82%.
india: By living ethically, lay people could rise socially and morally in these religions.
india: Although sometimes applied to other cultures and religions, caste is a uniquely Indian, and Hindu, social institution.
india: It is estimated that approximately 40% of the population of India carry tuberculosis infection.
india: After the India–Pakistan war of 1965, Shastri died in January 1966, soon after signing the Tashkent Peace Declaration.
india: 268–232 BCE), the empire briefly controlled the major urban hubs and arteries of the subcontinent, except in the deep south.
india: Three wars were fought over the disputed territory of Kashmir.
india: India's local pharmaceutical market is estimated up to US$42 billion.
india: In India's higher education system, a significant number of seats are reserved under affirmative action policies for the historically disadvantaged.
india: These parallel chains run from the Arabian Sea coast in Gujarat in the west to the coal-rich Chota Nagpur Plateau in Jharkhand in the east.
india: The party won a larger majority in the 2019 general election.
india: India's subsequent collision with Eurasia set off a mass exchange of species.
india: She was succeeded as prime minister by Rajiv Gandhi, who led Congress to a comfortable victory in the elections at the end of the year.
india: During this era, there was a flourishing of creativity in art, architecture, and writing, the status of women declined, and untouchability became an organised belief.
india: The executive of the Indian government consists of the president, the vice-president, and the Union Council of Ministers—with the cabinet being its executive committee—headed by the prime minister.
india: Several tribal religions are also present in India, such as Donyi-Polo, Sanamahism, Sarnaism, and Niamtre.
india: Newly coherent social groups in northern and western India, such as the Marathas, the Rajputs, and the Sikhs, gained military and governing ambitions during Mughal rule, which, through collaboration or adversity, gave them both recognition and military experience.
india: Female infanticide in India, and lately female foeticide, have created lop-sided gender ratios; the number of missing women in the country quadrupled from 15 million to 63 million during the period 1964–2014, faster than the population growth during the same period.
india: Civil servants act as permanent executives and all decisions of the executive are implemented by them.
india: As of 2026, Indian gross domestic output (GDP) have placed the nation as the 6th largest economy in the world.
india: Some 431 million Indians have left poverty since 1985; India's middle classes are projected to number around 580 million by 2030.
india: In the 1st millennium Islam, Christianity, Judaism, and Zoroastrianism became established on India's southern and western coasts.
india: Congress emerged as the largest single party and formed a coalition, the United Progressive Alliance (UPA).
india: The next decade was beset with crises: Indian participation in World War II, the Congress's final push for non-co-operation, and an upsurge of Muslim nationalism.
india: There are also features not to be found in the Act of 1935.
india: Demographics strain its economy, with the nation historically maintaining low GDP per capita both regionally and as measured by globally.
india: The UPA returned to power in the 2009 general election with increased numbers, no longer dependent on external support.
india: Between 2001 and 2011, the contribution of petrochemical and engineering goods to total exports grew from 14% to 42%.
india: It predominates in the temperate coniferous forest of the Himalayas, the moist deciduous sal forest of eastern India, and the dry deciduous teak forest of central and southern India.
india: After India's independence on August 15, 1947, Jawaharlal Nehru became prime minister of the Dominion of India, an office he held until January 26, 1950, when India became a republic; Nehru remained the caretaker prime minister until the following year.
india: Manmohan Singh, a Sikh, who was proposed by Congress President Sonia Gandhi to be parliamentary leader, served as prime minister of the UPA government, but with some external support.
india: With an estimated 1,428,627,663 residents in 2023, India is the world's most populous country.
india: Gujral serving as prime ministers.
india: Marriage is thought to be for life; and the divorce rate is extremely low; less than one in a thousand marriages end in divorce.
india: The caste system consequently began to show regional differences.
india: The resulting Mughal Empire did not stamp out the local societies it came to rule.
india: Deve Gowda and I.
india: In cities like Delhi and Mumbai, breathing the air is equivalent to smoking 30 cigarettes a day.
india: The Congress returned to power in 1980.
india: Under the Guptas, a renewed Hinduism based on devotion, rather than the management of ritual, began to assert itself.
india: Hindu and Jain sites appear rather later.
india: The oldest extant mathematical document produced on the Indian subcontinent is the birch bark Bakhshali manuscript from the 7th century CE.
india: They are held up by a drawstring, which causes them to become pleated around the waist.
india: Among 20th-century directions is the modern dance of Uday Shankar in which classical styles were employed but not adhered to rigidly.
india: In the general elections in 1951, 1957, and 1962, the Congress, led by Nehru, won by comfortable margins.
india: Following public discontent with the Emergency, the Congress was voted out of power in 1977; Janata Party, which had opposed the Emergency, was voted in.
india: A nationalist movement emerged in India, the first in the non-European British Empire and an influence on other nationalist movements.
india: The Pallavas, in particular, traded extensively with the Roman Empire and with West and Southeast Asia.
india: The Persian-derived Deccan painting, starting just before the Mughal miniature, between them give the first large body of secular painting, with an emphasis on portraits, and the recording of princely pleasures and wars.
india: Fully a third of Indian plant species are endemic.
india: From ancient times until the advent of the modern, the most widely worn traditional dress in India was draped.
india: In 1947, the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two independent dominions, a Hindu-majority dominion of India and a Muslim-majority dominion of Pakistan.
india: An Indian institution recommended by the constitution is the panchayat or village committees.
india: The Indian subcontinent is the birthplace of four major world religions: Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, and Sikhism.
india: It extends as far north as the Satpura and Vindhya ranges in central India.
india: The 10 most polluted cities in the world are all in India with more than 140 million people breathing air 10 times or more over the WHO safe limit.
india: Outside the caste system, and therefore of traditional Hinduism, lie people formerly called "outcastes" or "untouchables," and now scheduled caste (a term used in India's constitution) or Dalit, a later self-description of pride, meaning "broken" or "downtrodden".
india: Narasimha Rao, formed a minority government which served a full five-year term.
india: The original Indian plate makes its first appearance above the sediment in the ancient Aravalli range, which extends from the Delhi Ridge in a southwesterly direction.
india: Coastal features include the marshy Rann of Kutch of western India and the alluvial Sundarbans delta of eastern India; the latter is shared with Bangladesh.
india: Almost all surviving ancient Indian art thereafter is in various forms of religious sculpture in durable materials, or coins.
india: Temperatures in India have risen by 0.7 °C (1.3 °F) between 1901 and 2018.
india: Settled life emerged on the subcontinent in the western margins of the Indus river basin 9,000 years ago, evolving gradually into the Indus Valley Civilisation of the third millennium BCE.
india: Still later, mammals entered India from Asia through two zoogeographic passes flanking the Himalayas.
india: 300 CE – c.
india: India contains a wide array of musical practices, including many different folk musics from different regions.
india: This lowered endemism among India's mammals, which stands at 12.6%, contrasting with 45.8% among reptiles and 55.8% among amphibians.
india: The rural-urban literacy gap, which was 21.2 percentage points in 2001, dropped to 16.1 percentage points in 2011.
india: Across the north, this became rather stiff and formulaic after c.
india: India has been a federal republic since 1950, governed through a democratic parliamentary system.
india: China's nuclear test of 596 and threats to intervene in support of Pakistan in the 1965 war caused India to produce nuclear weapons.
india: India has 28 states and 8 union territories.
india: The remaining five union territories are directly ruled by the central government through appointed administrators.
india: Both religions stressed non-violence and abjured animal sacrifices conducted in Brahmanism, and birth into a fixed hereditary varna.
india: An acute balance of payments crisis in 1991 forced the nation to liberalise its economy; since then, it has moved increasingly towards a free-market system by emphasising both foreign trade and direct investment inflows.
india: By 1200 BCE, an archaic form of Sanskrit, an Indo-European language, had diffused into India from the northwest.
india: Fed by diverse resentments and perceptions, including invasive British-style social reforms, harsh land taxes, and summary treatment of some wealthy landowners and princes, the rebellion rocked many regions of northern and central India and shook the foundations of Company rule.
india: The Indian early medieval age, from 600 to 1200 CE, was defined by regional kingdoms and cultural diversity.
india: The Mughal state's economic policies, deriving most revenues from agriculture and mandating that taxes be paid in the well-regulated silver currency, caused peasants and artisans to enter larger markets.
india: The kameez is a long shirt or tunic.
india: India has a three-tier unitary independent judiciary comprising the supreme court, headed by the Chief Justice of India, 25 high courts, and a large number of trial courts.
india: The BJP, now a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), formed a coalition government led by Vajpayee, who became the first non-Congress prime minister to complete a five-year term.
india: British Crown rule began in 1858.
india: Simultaneously, Buddhism and Jainism, which had favoured a conservative transactionalism, were replaced by kingly devotion to the gods of particular places, which became a characteristic of the Bhakti movement.
india: India also has the largest population of people adhering to both Zoroastrianism (Parsis and Iranis) and the Bahá'í Faith.
india: For women it took the form of a sari, a single piece of cloth many yards long.
india: Its lower crust and mantle slid under, but the upper layer piled up in sheets (or nappes) ahead of the subduction zone.
india: Hindi language protagonists wanted Hindi in the Devanagari script to be the sole "national language" of India whereas delegates from South India preferred English to have a place in the Constitution.
india: The Kosi's extremely low gradient, caused by long-term silt deposition, leads to severe floods and course changes.
india: Temple towns of various sizes began to appear everywhere as India underwent another urbanisation.
india: The settlement may have involved driving the preexisting people out or enslaving them.
india: Dance has been an essential aspect of Indian films from the first talkies of the 1930s.
india: Singh and Chandra Shekhar served as prime ministers.
india: But in the South, under the Pallava and Chola dynasties, sculpture in both stone and bronze had a sustained period of great achievement; the large bronzes with Shiva as Nataraja have become an iconic symbol of India.
india: In South India, the Middle kingdoms exported Dravidian language scripts and religious cultures to the kingdoms of Southeast Asia.
india: Any minister holding a portfolio must be a member of one of the houses of parliament.
india: In 1981 the respective literacy rates for total population, men and women were 41%, 53% and 29%.
india: India's population grew from 361 million in 1951 to over 1.4 billion in 2023.
india: As the edicts forbade both the killing of wild animals and the destruction of forests, Ashoka is seen by some modern environmental historians as an early embodiment of that ethos.
india: In the 2011 census, there were 53 million-plus urban agglomerations in India.
india: Economic liberalisation has created a large urban middle class and transformed India into a fast growing economy.
india: In 2022, India became the world's third-largest vehicle market after China and the United States, surpassing Japan.
india: India web resources provided by GovPubs at the University of Colorado Boulder Libraries
India from BBC News
 Wikimedia Atlas of India
 Geographic data related to India at OpenStreetMap
Key Development Forecasts for India from International Futures
india: The renewal was reflected in a flowering of art, literature, and science.
india: In office settings, ubiquitous air conditioning allows men to wear sports jackets year-round.
india: Modi is the longest-serving non-Congress prime minister.
india: The Indian automotive industry, the world's second-fastest growing, increased domestic sales by 26% during 2009–2010, and exports by 36% during 2008–2009.
india: The President, the constitutional head of state, has reserve powers for taking over the administration of a state.
india: In the Indian Ocean, India is near Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
india: Despite a government ban on sex-selective foeticide, the practice has far from stopped.
india: The improvement in the rural literacy rate is twice that of urban areas.
india: The vast majority of Indians fall into the global low-income group based on average daily income.
india: These mathematical concepts were transmitted to the Middle East, China, and Europe.
india: Bounded by the Indian Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the southwest, and the Bay of Bengal on the southeast, it shares land borders with Pakistan to the west; China, Nepal and Bhutan to the north; Bangladesh and Myanmar to the east.
india: In its modern form, it is combined with an underskirt, or Indian petticoat, and tucked in along the waist band for more secure fastening.
india: Many of these in turn arose in temples or other religious contexts.
india: India has distinctive vegetarian cuisines, each a feature of the geographical and cultural histories of its adherents.
india: Simultaneously, the vast Tethyan oceanic crust, to its northeast, began to subduct under the Eurasian Plate.
india: By the 8th and 9th centuries, the effects were felt in Southeast Asia, as South Indian culture and political systems were exported to lands that became part of modern-day Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Brunei, Cambodia, Vietnam, Philippines, Malaysia, and Indonesia.
india: In 1989, a National Front coalition, led by the Janata Dal, in alliance with the Left Front, won the general elections.
india: Its further access to the riches of Bengal and the subsequent increased strength and size of its army enabled it to annexe or subdue most of India by the 1820s.
india: India has won a record eight field hockey gold medals in the summer Olympics.
india: In the classical period of Indian mathematics (400 CE to 1200 CE), important contributions were made by Aryabhata, Brahmagupta, Bhaskara II, Varāhamihira, and Madhava.
india: After the 1965 war, India began to pursue close military and economic ties with the Soviet Union.
india: According to Latika Chaudhary, in 1911 there were under three primary schools for every ten villages.
india: By the 4th and 5th centuries, the Gupta Empire had created a complex system of administration and taxation in the greater Ganges Plain; this system became a model for later Indian kingdoms.
india: The incremental fragmentation of imperial authority during the late 17th and 18th centuries facilitated a process of decentralisation, enabling provincial elites to assert localised autonomy and consolidate control over their own affairs.
india: Constituted in such fashion, India lies to the north of the equator between 6° 44′ and 35° 30′ north latitude and 68° 7′ and 97° 25′ east longitude.
india: It was marked by British reforms but also repressive legislation, by more strident Indian calls for self-rule, and by the beginnings of a nonviolent movement of non-co-operation led by Mahatma Gandhi.
india: Their long occupation, predominantly in isolation as hunter-gatherers, has made the region highly diverse.
india: liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith, and worship.") According to the 2011 census of India, 79.8% of the population of India follows Hinduism, 14.2% Islam, 2.3% Christianity, 1.7% Sikhism, 0.7% Buddhism and 0.4% Jainism.
india: The promulgation of the Indian constitution transformed India into a republic within the Commonwealth.
india: The railway network provided critical famine relief, notably reduced the cost of moving goods, and helped nascent Indian-owned industry.
india: India has had uneasy relations with its western neighbour, Pakistan.
india: 800 CE, though rich with finely carved detail in the surrounds of statues.
india: To the south, the remaining peninsular landmass, the Deccan Plateau, is flanked on the west and east by coastal ranges known as the Western and Eastern Ghats; the plateau contains the country's oldest rock formations, some over one billion years old.
india: It is expected to grow to US$3,264 by 2026.
india: When the pants are cut quite narrow, on the bias, they are called churidars.
india: In 2024, India's consumer market was the world's third largest.
india: The savoury dishes might include lentils, pulses, vegetables, meat, poultry and fish commonly spiced with ginger and garlic, but also coriander, cumin, turmeric, cinnamon, cardamom and others.
india: India's pre-existing Dravidian languages were supplanted in the northern regions.
india: India is a federal union comprising 28 states and 8 union territories.
india: India's wildlife, which has traditionally been viewed with tolerance in its culture, is supported in protected habitats.
india: Measured by purchasing power parity (PPP), India is the third-largest economy.
india: This is often complicated by the need to give figures multiple arms or heads, or represent different genders on the left and right of figures, as with the Ardhanarishvara form of Shiva and Parvati.
india: India conducted its first nuclear weapons test in 1974 and carried out additional underground testing in 1998.
india: During this period Buddhist art spread with Indian religions to Central, East and Southeast Asia, the last also greatly influenced by Hindu art.
india: By 400 BCE, caste had emerged within Hinduism, and Buddhism and Jainism had arisen, proclaiming social orders unlinked to heredity.
india: India's most dense forests, such as the tropical moist forest of the Andaman Islands, the Western Ghats, and Northeast India, occupy approximately 3% of its land area.
india: These cultures gradually evolved into the Indus Valley Civilisation, which flourished during 2500–1900 BCE in Pakistan and western India.
india: Indian mathematicians made early contributions to the study of the concept of zero as a number, negative numbers, arithmetic, and algebra.
india: It is a nuclear-weapon state that ranks high in military expenditure.
india: According to some current projections, the number and severity of droughts in India will have markedly increased by the end of the present century.
india: Democratic backsliding was found by the 2026 V-Dem Democracy Report.
india: The Constitution of India was drafted by the Constituent Assembly of India with uncommon speed and absence of irregularities between 1946 and 1949.
india: Hindustan ([ɦɪndʊˈstaːn] ) is a Middle Persian name for India that became popular by the 13th century, and was used widely since the era of the Mughal Empire.
india: The service sector makes up 55.6% of GDP, the industrial sector 26.3% and the agricultural sector 18.1%.
india: The traditional shalwar kameez is rarely worn by younger urban women, who favour churidars or jeans.
india: The number of people living in urban areas grew by 31.2% between 1991 and 2001.
india: These include the endangered Bengal tiger and the Ganges river dolphin.
india: A very large majority of Indians have their marriages arranged by their parents or family elders.
india: The subsequent government lasted just under two years; V.
india: In spite of this complex mixture of religious traditions, generally, the prevailing artistic style at any time and place has been shared by the major religious groups, and sculptors probably usually served all communities.
india: The Congress chose Indira Gandhi to be prime minister.
india: The kurta is traditionally collarless and made of cotton or silk; it is worn plain or with embroidered decoration, such as chikankari; and typically falls to either just above or just below the wearer's knees.
india: This list includes major regional languages, but also others—such as Sanskrit, which no longer has first language speakers in India, and Urdu, which is not region-specific—because of their value to India's cultural heritage.
india: The resulting Delhi Sultanate drew northern India into the cosmopolitan networks of medieval Islam.
india: In the 19th century, cheap Kalighat paintings of gods and everyday life, done on paper, were urban folk art from Calcutta, which later saw the Bengal School of Art, reflecting the art colleges founded by the British, the first movement in modern Indian painting.
india: The two major Sanskrit epics, the Mahābhārata and the Rāmāyaṇa, however, were composed in a range of oral storytelling registers called Epic Sanskrit which was used in northern India between 400 BCE and 300 CE, and roughly contemporary with classical Sanskrit.
india: Each caste is further divided into sub-castes, or jatis, many of which are tied to occupations.
india: Following his conquest of Kalinga, in which his forces caused immense loss of life, Ashoka adopted Buddhism, subsequently adopting a policy of dhamma and commissioning numerous rock and pillar edicts throughout the Maurya Empire to promote ethical conduct, non-violence, and social welfare.
india: These significantly influenced later artistic styles.
india: After the 10th century, Muslim Central Asian nomadic clans, using swift-horse cavalry and raising vast armies united by ethnicity, repeatedly overran South Asia's north-western plains, leading eventually to the establishment of the Islamic Delhi Sultanate in 1206.
india: After losing its majority in the 2024 general election, the BJP formed a coalition government with its NDA partners.
india: A large-scale loss of life and an unprecedented migration accompanied the partition.
india: India has been a member of World Trade Organization since 1 January 1995.
india: She led the party to election victories in 1967 and 1971, the latter a landslide after Pakistan's defeat in the Bangladesh Liberation War.
india: The meaning of Hindustan has varied, referring to a region encompassing the northern Indian subcontinent (present-day northern India and Pakistan) or to India in its near entirety.
india: United Front coalition governments followed, which relied on external political support, H.
india: The under-five mortality rate for the country was 113 per 1,000 live births in 1994 whereas in 2018 it reduced to 41.1 per 1,000 live births.
india: Between 1500 BCE and 1200 BCE, an archaic form of Sanskrit, an Indo-European language, diffused into India from the northwest.
india: The Thar Desert plays a crucial role in attracting the moisture-laden south-west summer monsoon winds that, between June and October, provide the majority of India's rainfall.
india: The Indian continental crust, however, was obstructed and was sheared horizontally.
india: The remaining Indian Plate survives as peninsular India, the oldest and geologically most stable part of India.
india: After World War I, in which more than 1.3 million Indians served, the Gandhian era began.
india: Religion in India is characterised by a diversity of beliefs and practices.
india: The education system of India is the world's second-largest.
india: India's nominal GDP per capita increased steadily from US$308 in 1991, when economic liberalisation began, to US$1,380 in 2010, to an estimated US$2,731 in 2024.
india: Four major climatic groupings predominate in India: tropical wet, tropical dry, subtropical humid, and montane.
india: Appointed by the president, the prime minister is supported by the party or political alliance with a majority of seats in the lower house of parliament.
india: In 1975, Indira Gandhi declared a state of emergency, suspending many civil liberties.
india: The literacy rate in 2011 was 74.04%: 65.46% among females and 82.14% among males.
india: In the last 50 years, fashions have changed a great deal in India.
india: India is among the top 12 biotech destinations in the world.
india: Classical Sanskrit, a refined and standardised grammatical form would emerge in the mid-1st millennium BCE and was codified in the Aṣṭādhyāyī ('Eight chapters') of Pāṇini.
india: Gupta art, at its peak c.
india: Indian film music is music written for Indian cinema, generally composed by music directors and sung by playback singers.
india: A second urbanisation had taken place in South Asia by 400 BCE, this time on the Ganges plain.
india: Among the socio-economic challenges India faces are gender inequality, child malnutrition, and rising levels of air pollution.
india: India Archived 11 January 2021 at the Wayback Machine.
india: The country's usage of coal is a major cause of India's greenhouse gas emissions, but its renewable energy is growing.
india: India has a very ancient tradition of art, which has exchanged many influences with the rest of Eurasia, especially in the first millennium.
india: In 1891, they were 5%, 9% and 1%.
india: The individual and group dances of Bollywood, for example, show a broad range of influences, including classical, local, and Western popular dance.
india: Evidence for the neolithic period in the western margins of the Indus river basin, at Mehrgarh in Balochistan, Pakistan, dates to after 7000 BCE.
india: India also overlaps four of the world's 34 biodiversity hotspots, or regions that display significant habitat loss in the presence of high endemism.
india: Increasing access to electricity and clean cooking with liquefied petroleum gas have been priorities for energy in India.
india: Local dance traditions vary widely across India.
india: In the early 16th century, northern India, then under mainly Muslim rulers, fell again to the superior mobility and firepower of a new generation of Central Asian warriors.
india: In some instances, the ingredients may be mixed during the cooking process.
india: The Ancient Greeks referred to South Asians as Indoi, 'the people of the Indus'.
india: No ruler of this period was able to create an empire and consistently control lands much beyond their core region.
india: This equates to about 2.5 tons of carbon dioxide per person per year, which is half the world average.
india: As a market developed among European residents, it was supplied by Company painting by Indian artists with considerable Western influence.
india: India has signed neither the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty nor the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, considering both to be flawed and discriminatory.
india: Identified with "prostitutes and courtesans", their dancing was formally banned in 1947.
india: Long passages from the Act were included.
india: Networks of towns and villages grew around the cities in a new agro-pastoral economy.
india: Central Intelligence Agency.
india: In the decades following, public life gradually emerged across India, eventually leading to the founding of the Indian National Congress in 1885.
india: In 1991, soon after the first round of polling in the general election, Congress leader Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated by a member of a Sri Lankan Tamil separatist organisation who was seeking to avenge Indian intervention in the Sri Lankan civil war.
india: Its side seams left open below the waistline.
india: India maintains a "no first use" nuclear policy and is developing a nuclear triad capability as a part of its "Minimum Credible Deterrence" doctrine.
india: It is a pluralistic, multilingual and multi-ethnic society.
india: India is a parliamentary republic with a multi-party system.
india: The Congress is considered the ideological centre in Indian political culture; the BJP is right-wing to far-right.
india: The median age was 28.7 in 2020.
india: Chess is commonly held to have originated in India as chaturaṅga; There has been a rise in the number of Indian grandmasters.
india: In 1956, under the States Reorganisation Act, states were reorganised on a linguistic basis.
india: The style spread to Hindu courts, especially among the Rajputs, and developed a variety of styles, with the smaller courts often the most innovative, with figures such as Nihâl Chand and Nainsukh.
india: Based on coalescence of Mitochondrial DNA and Y Chromosome data, it is thought that the earliest extant lineages of anatomically modern humans or Homo sapiens on the Indian subcontinent had reached there from Africa between 80,000 and 50,000 years ago, and with high likelihood by 55,000 years ago.
india: This created the orogeny, or process of mountain building, of the Himalayas.
india: Proclaiming a unitary state and a gradual but limited British-style parliamentary system, the new rulers also protected princes and landed gentry as a feudal safeguard against future unrest.
india: Although more dances could perhaps meet the criteria for classical, the Akademi has chosen eight.
india: Major Himalayan-origin rivers that substantially flow through India include the Ganges and the Brahmaputra, both of which drain into the Bay of Bengal.
india: Multi-generational patrilineal joint families have been the norm in India, though nuclear families are becoming common in urban areas.
india: Statistically, more caste and religious diversity reduced private spending.
india: In north India Mauryan art is the first imperial movement.
india: To the west lies the Thar Desert, the eastern spread of which is checked by the Aravallis.
india: Until 1991, all Indian governments followed protectionist policies that were influenced by socialist economics.
india: The level of urbanisation increased further from 27.81% in the 2001 census to 31.16% in the 2011 census.
india: Early political consolidations gave rise to the loose-knit Maurya and Gupta Empires.
india: Languages of India belong to several language families.
india: According to the Indian naval hydrographic charts, the mainland coastline consists of the following: 43% sandy beaches; 11% rocky shores, including cliffs; and 46% mudflats or marshy shores.
india: The rush of technology and the commercialisation of agriculture in the second half of the 19th century was marked by economic setbacks, and many small farmers became dependent on the whims of faraway markets.
india: 1,210,193,422 residents were reported in the 2011 provisional census report.
india: Still, caste-based inequality, discrimination, segregation, and violence persist.
india: In 2008, a civilian nuclear agreement was signed between India and the United States.
