industrial_society: Even today, industrial manufacturing is significant to many developed and semi-developed economies.
industrial_society: Traditionally, success has been measured in the number of jobs created.
industrial_society: In Europe during the late Middle Ages, artisans in many towns formed guilds to self-regulate their trades and collectively pursue their business interests.
industrial_society: Historically certain manufacturing industries have gone into a decline due to various economic factors, including the development of replacement technology or the loss of competitive advantage.
industrial_society: Marcuse, Herbert.
industrial_society: 'The Coming of Post-Industrial Society.
industrial_society: Paris: Gallimard, 1956.
industrial_society: However, some left-wing thinkers like André Gorz, Serge Mallet, Herbert Marcuse, and the Frankfurt School used aspects of industrial society theory in their critiques of capitalism.
industrial_society: Aron, Raymond.
industrial_society: While it is possible to produce a low-technology product with low-skill labour, the ability to manufacture high-technology products well is dependent on a highly skilled staff.
industrial_society: An example of the former is the decline in carriage manufacturing when the automobile was mass-produced.
industrial_society: Paris: Gallimard, 1964.
industrial_society: Industrialism and Industrial Man.
industrial_society: The trade union, through its leadership, bargains with the employer on behalf of other union members  and negotiates labour contracts with employers.
industrial_society: No longer needed for the production of food, excess labor is moved into these factories where mechanization is utilized to further increase efficiency.
industrial_society: This makes the reliable availability of the needed energy resources high priority in industrial government policies.
industrial_society: Paris: Seuil, 1965.
industrial_society: Industrial societies are generally mass societies, and may be succeeded by an information society.
industrial_society: Le Travail en miettes.
industrial_society: This occurs typically in the manufacturing sector.
industrial_society: Measurements of manufacturing industries outputs and economic effect are not historically stable.
industrial_society: Paris: Gallimard, 1961.
industrial_society: Industrial Society and Its Future.
industrial_society: Other sociologists, including Daniel Bell, Reinhard Bendix, Ralf Dahrendorf, Georges Friedmann, Seymour Martin Lipset, and Alain Touraine, used similar ideas in their own work, though with sometimes very different definitions and emphases.
industrial_society: Additionally, since the late 20th century, rapid changes in communication and information technology (sometimes called an information revolution) have allowed sections of some economies to specialize in a quaternary sector of knowledge and information-based services.
industrial_society: While serfdom largely supplanted the practice in Europe during the Middle Ages, several European powers reintroduced slavery extensively in the early modern period, particularly for the harshest labor in their colonies.
industrial_society: Along with rapid advances in technology, such as steam power and mass steel production, the new manufacturing drastically reconfigured previously mercantile and feudal economies.
industrial_society: Class and Class Conflict in Industrial Society.
industrial_society: Industrial societies use external energy sources, such as fossil fuels, to increase the rate and scale of production.
industrial_society: Industrial society makes urbanization desirable, in part so that workers can be closer to centers of production, and the service industry can provide labor to workers and those that benefit financially from them, in exchange for a piece of production profits with which they can buy goods.
industrial_society: Sociologie de l'action.
industrial_society: Early instances of industrial warfare were the Crimean War and the American Civil War, but its full potential showed during the world wars.
industrial_society: This leads to the rise of very large cities and surrounding suburb areas with a high rate of economic activity.
industrial_society: As populations grow, and mechanization is further refined, often to the level of automation, many workers shift to expanding service industries.
industrial_society: Stratégie ouvrière et néo-capitalisme.
industrial_society: Lipset, Seymour Martin.
industrial_society: Touraine, Alain.
industrial_society: Basics were often made within the household and most other manufacturing was carried out in smaller workshops by artisans with limited specialization or machinery.
industrial_society: Related to this change is the upgrading of the quality of the product being manufactured.
industrial_society: The Industrial Revolution changed warfare, with mass-produced weaponry and supplies, machine-powered transportation, mobilization, the total war concept and weapons of mass destruction.
industrial_society: This has come with a major shift in labor and production away from manufacturing and towards the service sector, a process dubbed tertiarization.
industrial_society: New York: Free Press, 1960.
industrial_society: These urban centers require the input of external energy sources in order to overcome the diminishing returns of agricultural consolidation, due partially to the lack of nearby arable land, associated transportation and storage costs, and are otherwise unsustainable.
industrial_society: Economic historian Sheilagh Ogilvie has suggested the guilds further restrained the quality and productivity of manufacturing.
industrial_society: Paris: Seuil, 1964.
industrial_society: Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1959.
industrial_society: Bell, Daniel.
industrial_society: Boston: Beacon Press, 1964.
industrial_society: Political Man: The Social Bases of Politics.
industrial_society: Kaczynski, Theodore J.
industrial_society: The production of food is shifted to large commercial farms where the products of industry, such as combine harvesters and fossil fuel–based fertilizers, are used to decrease required human labor while increasing production.
industrial_society: Such a structure developed in the Western world in the period of time following the Industrial Revolution, and replaced the agrarian societies of the pre-modern, pre-industrial age.
industrial_society: The French sociologist Raymond Aron, who gave the most developed definition to the concept of “industrial society” in the 1950s, used the term as a comparative method to identify common features of the Western capitalist and Soviet-style communist societies.
industrial_society: Gorz, André.
industrial_society: For these and other reasons, in a post-industrial society, manufacturers can and often do relocate their industrial operations to lower-cost regions in a process known as off-shoring.
industrial_society: Today, as industry is an important part of most societies and nations, many governments will have at least some role in planning and regulating industry.
industrial_society: The End of Ideology: On the Exhaustion of Political Ideas in the Fifties.
industrial_society: With the Industrial Revolution, the manufacturing sector became a major part of European and North American economies, both in terms of labor and production, contributing possibly a third of all economic activity.
industrial_society: The “industrial society” paradigm of the 1950s and 1960s was strongly marked by the unprecedented economic growth in Europe and the United States after World War II, and drew heavily on the work of economists like Colin Clark, John Kenneth Galbraith, W.W.
industrial_society: They are often contrasted with traditional societies.
industrial_society: The fusion of sociology with development economics gave the industrial society paradigm strong resemblances to modernization theory, which achieved major influence in social science in the context of postwar decolonization and the development of post-colonial states.
industrial_society: In an industrial society, industry employs a major part of the population.
industrial_society: The Industrial revolution played a central role in the later abolition of slavery, partly because domestic manufacturing's new economic dominance undercut interests in the slave trade.
industrial_society: This movement first rose among industrial workers.
industrial_society: One-Dimensional Man: Studies in the Ideology of Advanced Industrial Society.
industrial_society: "Late Capitalism or Industrial Society?" (1968)
Aron, Raymond.
industrial_society: Berkeley, CA: Jolly Roger Press, 1995.
industrial_society: Additionally, the new industrial methods required a complex division of labor with less worker supervision, which may have been incompatible with forced labor.
industrial_society: State management, automation, bureaucracy, institutionalized collective bargaining, and the rise of the tertiary sector were taken as common markers of industrial society.
industrial_society: Dahrendorf, Ralf.
industrial_society: Kerr, Clark, et al.
industrial_society: La lutte des classes: nouvelles leçons sur les sociétés industrielles.
industrial_society: Garden City, NJ: Doubleday, 1959.
industrial_society: Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1960.
industrial_society: The reduced number of employees in the manufacturing sector has been assumed to result from a decline in the competitiveness of the sector, or the introduction of the lean manufacturing process.
industrial_society: New York: Basic Books, 1973.
industrial_society: The principal notions of industrial-society theory were also commonly expressed in the ideas of reformists in European social-democratic parties who advocated a turn away from Marxism and an end to revolutionary politics.
industrial_society: In sociology, an industrial society is a society driven by the use of technology and machinery to enable mass production, supporting a large population with a high capacity for division of labour.
industrial_society: There is some evidence, however, that even in ancient times, large economies such as the Roman Empire or Chinese Han dynasty had developed factories for more centralized production in certain industries.
industrial_society: Prior to the Industrial Revolution in Europe and North America, followed by further industrialization throughout the world in the 20th century, most economies were largely agrarian.
industrial_society: A labour union is an organization of workers who have banded together to achieve common goals in key areas such as wages, hours, and other working conditions.
industrial_society: A Venture in Social Forecasting'.
industrial_society: The cementation of the Soviet Union’s position as a world power inspired reflection on whether the sociological association of highly-developed industrial economies with capitalism required updating.
industrial_society: Dix-huit leçons sur la société industrielle.
industrial_society: Rostow, and Jean Fourastié.
industrial_society: Friedmann, Georges.
industrial_society: This can include issues such as industrial pollution, financing, vocational education, and labour law.
industrial_society: A recent trend has been the migration of prosperous, industrialized nations towards a post-industrial society.
