intelligence: What Intelligence Tests Miss: The Psychology of Rational Thought.
intelligence: Blakeslee, Sandra; Hawkins, Jeff (2004).
intelligence: It is thought to be distinct from other types of intelligence, but has relations to emotional intelligence.
intelligence: Some skeptics believe that there is no meaningful way to define intelligence, aside from "just pointing to ourselves".
intelligence: The development of intelligence in children: The Binet-Simon Scale.
intelligence: Archived from the original on 24 December 2013.
intelligence: It is sometimes derided as being merely "book knowledge", and having it is being "book smart".
intelligence: Kaplan and Haenlein define artificial intelligence as "a system's ability to correctly interpret external data, to learn from such data, and to use those learnings to achieve specific goals and tasks through flexible adaptation".
intelligence: Some researchers have suggested that plants exhibit forms of intelligence, though this remains controversial.
intelligence: "This murder mystery competition has revealed that although NLP (natural-language processing) models are capable of incredible feats, their abilities are very much limited by the amount of context they receive.
intelligence: IQ and Human Intelligence (second ed.).
intelligence: However, many psychologists question the validity of IQ tests as a measure of intelligence as a whole.
intelligence: Stanovich, Keith (2009).
intelligence: 30.)
Hughes-Castleberry, Kenna, "A Murder Mystery Puzzle: The literary puzzle Cain's Jawbone, which has stumped humans for decades, reveals the limitations of natural-language-processing algorithms", Scientific American, vol.
intelligence: Roivainen, Eka, "AI's IQ: ChatGPT aced a [standard intelligence] test but showed that intelligence cannot be measured by IQ alone", Scientific American, vol.
intelligence: Archived from the original on 14 June 2010.
intelligence: ISBN 978-0-521-74147-7.
intelligence: Marcus points out a so far insuperable stumbling block to artificial intelligence: an incapacity for reliable disambiguation.
intelligence: This [...] could cause [difficulties] for researchers who hope to use them to do things such as analyze ancient languages.
intelligence: Wolfgang Köhler's research on the intelligence of apes is an example of research in this area, as is Stanley Coren's book, The Intelligence of Dogs.
intelligence: Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
intelligence: Concepts of "intelligence" are attempts to clarify and organize this complex set of phenomena.
intelligence: Artificial intelligences – disembodied, strangers to blood, sweat, and tears – have no occasion for that." (p.
intelligence: A counter argument is that intelligence is commonly understood to involve the creation and use of persistent memories as opposed to computation that does not involve learning.
intelligence: New York: Wiley.
intelligence: How much does it matter?", The New Yorker, 20 November 2023, pp.
intelligence: It gives humans the cognitive abilities to learn, form concepts, understand, and reason, including the capacities to recognize patterns, innovate, plan, solve problems, and employ language to communicate.
intelligence: Today, most psychologists agree that IQ measures at least some aspects of human intelligence, particularly the ability to thrive in an academic context.
intelligence: This approach to the study of nature was strongly rejected by  early modern philosophers such as Francis Bacon, Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, and David Hume, all of whom preferred "understanding" (in place of "intellectus" or "intelligence") in their English philosophical works.
intelligence: Prominent among these are the various Intelligence Quotient (IQ) tests, which were first developed in the early 20th century to screen children for intellectual disability.
intelligence: A consensus report called Intelligence: Knowns and Unknowns, published in 1995 by the Board of Scientific Affairs of the American Psychological Association, states:
intelligence: Scholars describe its constituent abilities in various ways, and differ in the degree to which they conceive of intelligence as quantifiable.
intelligence: Hobbes, for example, in his Latin De Corpore, used "intellectus intelligit", translated in the English version as "the understanding understandeth", as a typical example of a logical absurdity.
intelligence: [...] A.I.-generated videos are not, in general, operating in our media as counterfeited evidence.
intelligence: A Collection of Definitions of Intelligence
intelligence: Psychologists and learning researchers also have suggested definitions of intelligence such as the following:
intelligence: Publications of the Training School at Vineland New Jersey Department of Research No.
intelligence: 4 (November 2023), pp.
intelligence: "What Intelligence Tests Miss".
intelligence: Mental Help (Review).
intelligence: In contrast, knowledge acquired through direct experience and apprenticeship is called "street knowledge", and having it is being "street smart".
intelligence: These values are similar to the accepted variance in IQ explained by g in humans (40–50%).
intelligence: Moral intelligence is the capacity to understand right from wrong and to behave based on the value that is believed to be right.
intelligence: Human intelligence is the intellectual power of humans, which is marked by complex cognitive feats and high levels of motivation and self-awareness.
intelligence: The fakes aren't deep, and the deeps aren't fake.
intelligence: 93.)
Marcus, Gary, "Am I Human?: Researchers need new ways to distinguish artificial intelligence from the natural kind", Scientific American, vol.
intelligence: Psych Central (Review).
intelligence: Our brain is so good at comprehending language that we do not usually notice." A prominent example is the "pronoun disambiguation problem" ("PDP"): a machine has no way of determining to whom or what a pronoun in a sentence—such as "he", "she" or "it"—refers.
intelligence: Kaufman, Joseph D.
intelligence: to generate fake videos indistinguishable from real ones.
intelligence: Detterman, Alan S.
intelligence: 4 (July/August 2019), pp.
intelligence: Terman, Lewis Madison; Merrill, Maude A.
intelligence: OCLC 964301.
intelligence: 82.)
Immerwahr, Daniel, "Your Lying Eyes: People now use A.I.
intelligence: Novartis Foundation Symposium 233.
intelligence: Flynn, James R.
intelligence: Although these individual differences can be substantial, they are never entirely consistent: a given person's intellectual performance will vary on different occasions, in different domains, as judged by different criteria.
intelligence: They work, but they work by brute force." (p.
intelligence: Intelligence on In Our Time at the BBC
History of Influences in the Development of Intelligence Theory and Testing.
intelligence: Archived from the original on 26 May 2013.
intelligence: Mitchell, Free Agents: How Evolution Gave Us Free Will, Princeton University Press, 2023, 333 pp.), The New York Review of Books, vol.
intelligence: There is debate as to whether or not these studies and social intelligence come from the same theories or if there is a distinction between them, and they are generally thought to be of two different schools of thought.
intelligence: They are also liable to take our instructions too literally, giving us precisely what we asked for instead of what we actually wanted." (p.
intelligence: Oxford: Oxford University Press.
intelligence: 197.) Computer scientist Alex Pentland writes: "Current AI machine-learning algorithms are, at their core, dead simple stupid.
intelligence: Beyond the Flynn Effect".
intelligence: Existing AI lags humans in terms of general intelligence, which is sometimes defined as the "capacity to learn how to carry out a huge range of tasks".
intelligence: Cephalopods appear to exhibit characteristics of significant intelligence, yet their nervous systems differ radically from those of backboned animals.
intelligence: Intelligence, on the other hand, is the cognitive ability of someone to perform these and other processes.
intelligence: Intelligence enables humans to remember descriptions of things and use those descriptions in future behaviors.
intelligence: The Limits of Intelligence: The laws of physics may well prevent the human brain from evolving into an ever more powerful thinking machine.
intelligence: Cognitive ability and intelligence cannot be measured using the same, largely verbally dependent, scales developed for humans.
intelligence: Binet, Alfred; Simon, Th.
intelligence: In addition, higher emotional intelligence is thought to help us manage emotions, which is beneficial for our problem-solving skills.
intelligence: The same is true with arthropods.
intelligence: Progress in artificial intelligence can be demonstrated in benchmarks ranging from games to practical tasks such as protein folding.
intelligence: Mackintosh, N.
intelligence: Over time, IQ tests became more pervasive, being used to screen immigrants, military recruits, and job applicants.
intelligence: "Agency is what distinguishes us from machines.
intelligence: 3 (March 2017), pp.
intelligence: Lay summary in: William D.
intelligence: While cognitive ability is sometimes measured as a one-dimensional parameter, it could also be represented as a "hypersurface in a multidimensional space" to compare systems that are good at different intellectual tasks.
intelligence: ISBN 978-0-471-89738-5.
intelligence: First described in humans, the g factor has since been identified in a number of non-human species.
intelligence: This term, however, was strongly linked to the metaphysical and cosmological theories of teleological scholasticism, including theories of the immortality of the soul, and the concept of the active intellect (also known as the active intelligence).
intelligence: doi:10.1017/9781108770422.
intelligence: Most psychologists believe that intelligence can be divided into various domains or competencies.
intelligence: New York: Times Books.
intelligence: They are also capable of communication, accurately computing their circumstances, using sophisticated cost–benefit analysis and taking tightly controlled actions to mitigate and control the diverse environmental stressors.
intelligence: ISBN 978-0-521-73911-5.
intelligence: Learning refers to the act of retaining facts and information or abilities and being able to recall them for future use.
intelligence: Some of these definitions are meant to be general enough to encompass human and other animal intelligence as well.
intelligence: What Is Intelligence: Beyond the Flynn Effect (expanded paperback ed.).
intelligence: Some theories imply that a heightened emotional intelligence could also lead to faster generating and processing of emotions in addition to the accuracy.
intelligence: Emotional intelligence is thought to be the ability to convey emotion to others in an understandable way as well as to read the emotions of others accurately.
intelligence: Their role better resembles that of cartoons, especially smutty ones." (p.
intelligence: By Douglas Fox in Scientific American, 14 June 2011.
intelligence: The scientific consensus is that genetics does not explain average differences in IQ test performance between racial groups.
intelligence: In the Middle Ages, the word intellectus became the scholarly technical term for understanding and a translation for the Greek philosophical term nous.
intelligence: Intelligence () has been defined in many ways: the capacity for abstraction, logic, understanding, self-awareness, learning, emotional knowledge, reasoning, planning, creativity, critical thinking, and problem-solving.
intelligence: 3 (September 2018), pp.
intelligence: ChatGPT seemed unable to reason logically and tried to rely on its vast database of...
intelligence: Boston (MA): Houghton Mifflin.
intelligence: The g factor is a construct that summarizes the correlations observed between an individual's scores on a range of cognitive tests.
intelligence: Developed by Jonathan Plucker at Indiana University.
intelligence: Social intelligence is the ability to understand the social cues and motivations of others and oneself in social situations.
intelligence: There have been various attempts to quantify intelligence via psychometric testing.
intelligence: In some cases, there are few historical records on long-gone civilizations to serve as training data for such a purpose." (p.
intelligence: Indeed, when two dozen prominent theorists were recently asked to define intelligence, they gave two dozen, somewhat different, definitions.
intelligence: Intelligence is different from learning.
intelligence: 1 (July/August 2023), p.
intelligence: Although considerable clarity has been achieved in some areas, no such conceptualization has yet answered all the important questions, and none commands universal assent.
intelligence: "If by 'deepfakes' we mean realistic videos produced using artificial intelligence that actually deceive people, then they barely exist.
intelligence: Non-human animals particularly noted and studied for their intelligence include chimpanzees, bonobos (notably the language-using Kanzi) and other great apes, dolphins, elephants and to some extent parrots, rats and ravens.
intelligence: Archived 11 November 2007 at the Wayback Machine.
intelligence: It has been argued that plants should also be classified as intelligent based on their ability to sense and model external and internal environments and adjust their morphology, physiology and phenotype accordingly to ensure self-preservation and reproduction.
intelligence: It is considered a distinct form of intelligence, independent of both emotional and cognitive intelligence.
intelligence: George Dyson, historian of computing, writes (in what might be called "Dyson's Law") that "Any system simple enough to be understandable will not be complicated enough to behave intelligently, while any system complicated enough to behave intelligently will be too complicated to understand." (p.
intelligence: Individuals differ from one another in their ability to understand complex ideas, to adapt effectively to the environment, to learn from experience, to engage in various forms of reasoning, to overcome obstacles by taking thought.
intelligence: New Haven (CT): Yale University Press.
intelligence: An intelligent agent can be defined as a system that perceives its environment and takes actions which maximize its chances of success.
intelligence: ISBN 978-0-300-12385-2.
intelligence: "What Is Intelligence?
intelligence: 59.)
Press, Eyal, "In Front of Their Faces: Does facial-recognition technology lead police to ignore contradictory evidence?", The New Yorker, 20 November 2023, pp.
intelligence: Plants are not limited to automated sensory-motor responses, however, they are capable of discriminating positive and negative experiences and of "learning" (registering memories) from their past experiences.
intelligence: An influential theory that promoted the idea that IQ measures a fundamental quality possessed by every person is the theory of General Intelligence, or g factor.
intelligence: It has also been observed in the cognition of non-human animals.
intelligence: facts derived from online texts."
Cukier, Kenneth, "Ready for Robots?
intelligence: "[V]irtually every sentence [that people generate] is ambiguous, often in multiple ways.
intelligence: Retrieved 18 July 2010.
intelligence: Sternberg, Robert J.; Kaufman, Scott Barry, eds.
intelligence: Cephalopod intelligence provides an important comparative study.
intelligence: As the tests became more popular, belief that IQ tests measure a fundamental and unchanging attribute that all humans possess became widespread.
intelligence: Handbook of Intelligence.
intelligence: crystallized and the Unified Cattell-Horn-Carroll model, which contains abilities like fluid reasoning, perceptual speed, verbal abilities, and others.
intelligence: "Intelligence" has therefore become less common in English language philosophy, but it has later been taken up (with the scholastic theories that it now implies) in more contemporary psychology.
intelligence: They study various measures of problem solving, as well as numerical and verbal reasoning abilities.
intelligence: The word intelligence derives from the Latin nouns intelligentia or intellēctus, which in turn stem from the verb intelligere, to comprehend or perceive.
intelligence: It can be described as the ability to perceive or infer information and to retain it as knowledge to be applied to adaptive behaviors within an environment or context.
intelligence: Instead, intelligence is measured using a variety of interactive and observational tools focusing on innovation, habit reversal, social learning, and responses to novelty.
intelligence: Chichester: Wiley.
intelligence: Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins.
intelligence: "AIs are like autistic savants and will remain so for the foreseeable future....
intelligence: AIs lack common sense and can easily make errors that a human never would...
intelligence: "Despite its high IQ, ChatGPT fails at tasks that require real humanlike reasoning or an understanding of the physical and social world....
intelligence: Intelligence has been long-studied in humans, and across numerous disciplines.
intelligence: Social intelligence has coincided with other studies that focus on how we make judgements of others, the accuracy with which we do so, and why people would be viewed as having positive or negative social character.
intelligence: These researchers are interested in studying both mental ability in a particular species, and comparing abilities between species.
intelligence: Casebeer (30 November 2001).
intelligence: These cognitive abilities can be organized into frameworks like fluid vs.
intelligence: The term rose to prominence during the early 1900s.
intelligence: University of Michigan (Review).
intelligence: Studies have shown that g is responsible for 47% of the individual variance in cognitive ability measures in primates and between 55% and 60% of the variance in mice (Locurto, Locurto).
intelligence: "The Nature of Intelligence".
intelligence: 198.)
Domingos, Pedro, "Our Digital Doubles: AI will serve our species, not control it", Scientific American, vol.
intelligence: Measuring intelligence: A guide to the administration of the new revised Stanford-Binet tests of intelligence.
intelligence: ISBN 978-0-471-49434-8.
intelligence: Artificial intelligence researcher Hector Levesque has noted that:
intelligence: Riverside textbooks in education.
intelligence: ISBN 978-0-8050-7456-7.
intelligence: Vertebrates such as mammals, birds, reptiles and fish have shown a fairly high degree of intellect that varies according to each species.
intelligence: Evidence of a general factor of intelligence has been observed in non-human animals.
intelligence: 1 (18 January 2024), pp.
intelligence: OCLC 55510125.
intelligence: S2CID 241027150.
intelligence: Wolman, Benjamin B., ed.
intelligence: The Cambridge Handbook of Intelligence.
intelligence: The Nature of Intelligence.
intelligence: If this is accepted as definitive of intelligence, then it includes the artificial intelligence of robots capable of "machine learning", but excludes those purely autonomic sense-reaction responses that can be observed in many plants.
intelligence: Emotional intelligence is important to our mental health and has ties to social intelligence.
intelligence: ISBN 978-0-19-958559-5.
intelligence: Bock, Gregory; Goode, Jamie; Webb, Kate, eds.
intelligence: doi:10.1002/0470870850.
intelligence: How to Think about the Future of AI", Foreign Affairs, vol.
intelligence: Lay summary in: C Shalizi (27 April 2009).
intelligence: Some challenges include defining intelligence so it has the same meaning across species, and operationalizing a measure that accurately compares mental ability across species and contexts.
intelligence: consulting editors: Douglas K.
intelligence: Although humans have been the primary focus of intelligence researchers, scientists have also attempted to investigate animal intelligence, or more broadly, animal cognition.
intelligence: Scholars studying artificial intelligence have proposed definitions of intelligence that include the intelligence demonstrated by machines.
intelligence: Lay summary in: Jamie Hale.
intelligence: For biological creatures, reason and purpose come from acting in the world and experiencing the consequences.
intelligence: On intelligence.
intelligence: Kite (Trans.).
intelligence: There is debate about the heritability of IQ, that is, what proportion of differences in IQ test performance between individuals are explained by genetic or environmental factors.
intelligence: Given the importance of learning through text in our own personal lives and in our culture, it is perhaps surprising how utterly dismissive we tend to be of it.
