intellectual_property: Intellectual Property legislation is its focus on individual and joint works; thus, copyright protection can only be obtained in 'original' works of authorship.
intellectual_property: It is often called "piracy".
intellectual_property: He who receives an idea from me, receives instruction himself without lessening mine; as he who lights his taper at mine, receives light without darkening me.
intellectual_property: On the contrary, policies that encourage the diffusion of ideas and modify patent laws to facilitate entry and encourage competition may be an effective mechanism to encourage innovation.
intellectual_property: Writer Ayn Rand argued in her book Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal that the protection of intellectual property is essentially a moral issue.
intellectual_property: Trade secret misappropriation is different from violations of other intellectual property laws, since by definition trade secrets are secret, while patents and registered copyrights and trademarks are publicly available.
intellectual_property: Copyright infringement is reproducing, distributing, displaying or performing a work, or to make derivative works, without permission from the copyright holder, which is typically a publisher or other business representing or assigned by the work's creator.
intellectual_property: A copyright gives the creator of an original work exclusive rights to it, usually for a limited time.
intellectual_property: There is no overall rule-making body.
intellectual_property: Nion mentioned propriété intellectuelle in his Droits civils des auteurs, artistes et inventeurs, published in 1846.
intellectual_property: Historically, legal protection was therefore granted only when necessary to encourage invention, and it was limited in time and scope.
intellectual_property: Supporters of intellectual property laws often describe their main purpose as encouraging the creation of a wide variety of intellectual goods.
intellectual_property: as the wheat he cultivates, or the flocks he rears." The statement that "discoveries are ...
intellectual_property: When authority is granted to the few over resources on which the many depend, the few gain power over the goals of the many.
intellectual_property: Also with respect to copyright, the American film industry helped to change the social construct of intellectual property via its trade organization, the Motion Picture Association (MPA).
intellectual_property: But the first man to invent a house, according to IP advocates, would have a right to prevent others from building houses on their own land, with their own logs, or to charge them a fee if they do build houses.
intellectual_property: Enforcement of copyright is generally the responsibility of the copyright holder.
intellectual_property: However, this paradigm shift has not yet manifested itself in concrete legal reforms at the international level.
intellectual_property: Supporters argue that because IP laws allow people to protect their original ideas and prevent unauthorized copying, creators derive greater individual economic benefit from the information and intellectual goods they create, and thus have more economic incentives to create them in the first place.
intellectual_property: In 2017–2018, both the U.S.
intellectual_property: Some copyleft licenses, like the GNU GPL 3, are designed to counter this.
intellectual_property: Law professor, writer and political activist Lawrence Lessig, along with many other copyleft and free software activists, has criticized the implied analogy with physical property (like land or an automobile).
intellectual_property: The TRIPS Agreement sets minimum international standards for IP which every member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) must comply with.
intellectual_property: TCJA, but does seek to override IP BEPS tools via a quasi-VAT.
intellectual_property: In 500 BCE, the government of the Greek state of Sybaris offered one year's patent "to all who should discover any new refinement in luxury".
intellectual_property: Trade dress is a legal term of art that generally refers to characteristics of the visual and aesthetic appearance of a product or its packaging (or even the design of a building) that signify the source of the product to consumers.
intellectual_property: An industrial design right (sometimes called "design right" or design patent) protects the visual design of objects that are not purely utilitarian.
intellectual_property: Intellectual property rights violations therefore do not differ morally from violations of other property rights which compromise the very processes of survival and therefore constitute immoral acts.
intellectual_property: There is safe harbor in many jurisdictions to use a patented invention for research.
intellectual_property: The statutory penalties are different for the two offenses.
intellectual_property: The German equivalent was used with the founding of the North German Confederation whose constitution granted legislative power over the protection of intellectual property (Schutz des geistigen Eigentums) to the confederation.
intellectual_property: Stallman advocates referring to copyrights, patents and trademarks in the singular and warns against abstracting disparate laws into a collective term.
intellectual_property: Intellectual property has become a core tool in corporate tax planning and tax avoidance.
intellectual_property: By exchanging limited exclusive rights for disclosure of inventions and creative works, society and rightsholders mutually benefit, and an incentive is created for inventors and authors to create and disclose their works.
intellectual_property: The WIPO Intellectual Property Handbook gives two reasons for intellectual property laws: "One is to give statutory expression to the moral and economic rights of creators in their creations and the rights of the public in access to those creations.
intellectual_property: Creative Commons (CC) licenses provide a set of permissions that range from highly permissive to more restrictive, outlining conditions such as attribution requirements, non-commercial use, share-alike distribution, and restrictions on derivative works.
intellectual_property: An industrial design can be a two- or three-dimensional pattern used to produce a product, industrial commodity or handicraft.
intellectual_property: In Commonwealth common law jurisdictions, confidentiality and trade secrets are regarded as an equitable right rather than a property right but penalties for theft are roughly the same as in the United States.
intellectual_property: The first known use of the term intellectual property dates to this time, when a piece published in the Monthly Review in 1769 used the phrase.
intellectual_property: Trade secrets are protected by a combination of state and federal laws, which prescribe a combination of civil and criminal penalties for trade secret "misappropriation"—the improper acquisition, disclosure, or use of a trade secret.
intellectual_property: Recently, there has also been much debate over the desirability of using intellectual property rights to protect cultural heritage, including intangible ones, as well as over risks of commodification derived from this possibility.
intellectual_property: The organization subsequently relocated to Geneva in 1960 and was succeeded in 1967 with the establishment of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) by treaty as an agency of the United Nations.
intellectual_property: In 2013, the United States Patent and Trademark Office approximated that the worth of intellectual property to the U.S.
intellectual_property: As scientific knowledge has expanded and allowed new industries to arise in fields such as biotechnology and nanotechnology, originators of technology have sought IP protection for the new technologies.
intellectual_property: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which has several anti-IP BEPS abuse tax regimes, including GILTI tax and the BEAT tax regimes.
intellectual_property: EU Commission 2018 Digital Services Tax, which is less advanced than the U.S.
intellectual_property: Section 1 of the French law of 1791 stated, "All new discoveries are the property of the author; to assure the inventor the property and temporary enjoyment of his discovery, there shall be delivered to him a patent for five, ten or fifteen years." In Europe, French author A.
intellectual_property: Thomas Jefferson once said in a letter to Isaac McPherson on 13 August 1813:
intellectual_property: Advocates of IP believe that these economic incentives and legal protections stimulate innovation and contribute to technological progress of certain kinds.
intellectual_property: Patent infringement typically is caused by using or selling a patented invention without permission from the patent holder, i.e.
intellectual_property: In the UK, IP has become a recognised asset class for use in pension-led funding and other types of business finance.
intellectual_property: Balancing rights so that they are strong enough to encourage the creation of information and intellectual goods, but not so strong that they prevent their wide use, is the primary focus of modern intellectual property law.
intellectual_property: They naturally imitate Galt-Magnon, and they start building their own cabins.
intellectual_property: Copyright may apply to a wide range of creative, intellectual, or artistic forms, or "works".
intellectual_property: An industrial design consists of the creation of a shape, configuration or composition of pattern or color, or a combination thereof, in three-dimensional form containing aesthetic value.
intellectual_property: The issue still remains open in legal scholarship.
intellectual_property: More recently, scientists and engineers are expressing concern that patent thickets are undermining technological development even in high-tech fields like nanotechnology.
intellectual_property: Laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act have been enacted that use criminal law to prevent any circumvention of software used to enforce DRM systems.
intellectual_property: §§ 1831–1839), which makes the theft or misappropriation of a trade secret a federal crime.
intellectual_property: Clearly, this rule flies in the face of the first-user homesteading rule, arbitrarily and groundlessly overriding the very homesteading rule that is at the foundation of all property rights.
intellectual_property: Additionally Congress's awareness of the position of the United States as the world's largest producer of films has made it convenient to expand the conception of intellectual property.
intellectual_property: The United States also has federal law in the form of the Economic Espionage Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C.
intellectual_property: Approximately 200 years after the end of Elizabeth's reign, however, a patent represents a legal right obtained by an inventor providing for exclusive control over the production and sale of his mechanical or scientific invention.
intellectual_property: Libertarians have differing views on intellectual property.
intellectual_property: It is plain that the innovator in these examples becomes a partial owner of the tangible property (e.g., land and logs) of others, due not to first occupation and use of that property (for it is already owned), but due to his coming up with an idea.
intellectual_property: Although the relationship between intellectual property and human rights is complex, there are moral arguments for intellectual property.
intellectual_property: The increase in terms of protection is particularly seen in relation to copyright, which has recently been the subject of serial extensions in the United States and in Europe.
intellectual_property: Morin argues that "the emerging discourse of the global IP regime advocates for greater policy flexibility and greater access to knowledge, especially for developing countries".
intellectual_property: For data and database-related material, the Open Data Commons (ODC) licenses—such as the Open Database License (ODbL), the Attribution License (ODC-By), and the Public Domain Dedication and License (PDDL)—offer legal tools that govern the sharing, modification, and redistribution of databases.
intellectual_property: Brown, in which Justice Charles L.
intellectual_property: The global IP ratchet has limited the freedom of developing countries to set their own IP standards.
intellectual_property: They further argued that "stronger patents do little or nothing to encourage innovation", mainly explained by its tendency to create market monopolies, thereby restricting further innovations and technology transfer.
intellectual_property: Unlike traditional property, intellectual property is indivisible—an unlimited number of people can "consume" an intellectual good without it being depleted.
intellectual_property: Other recent developments in intellectual property law, such as the America Invents Act, stress international harmonization.
intellectual_property: The scope of the patented invention or the extent of protection is defined in the claims of the granted patent.
intellectual_property: Because they can then profit from them, this creates economic incentives for their creation.
intellectual_property: Alternative terms monopolies on information and intellectual monopoly have emerged among those who argue against the property or intellect or rights assumptions, notably Richard Stallman.
intellectual_property: Innovation and invention in 19th-century America has been attributed to the development of the patent system.
intellectual_property: An invention is a solution to a specific technological problem, which may be a product or a process, and generally has to fulfill three main requirements: it has to be novel, not obvious and possess industrial applicability.
intellectual_property: Stephan Kinsella has objected to intellectual property on the grounds that the word "property" implies scarcity, which is not applicable to ideas.
intellectual_property: Trademark infringement occurs when one party uses a trademark that is identical or confusingly similar to a trademark owned by another party, in relation to products or services which are identical or similar to the products or services of the other party.
intellectual_property: Balancing rights so that they are strong enough to encourage the creation of intellectual goods but not so strong that they prevent the goods' wide use is the primary focus of modern intellectual property law.
intellectual_property: In general, patent infringement cases are handled under civil law (e.g., in the United States) but several jurisdictions incorporate infringement in criminal law also (for example, Argentina, China, France, Japan, Russia, South Korea).
intellectual_property: The belief is that the human mind itself is the source of wealth and survival and that all property at its base is intellectual property.
intellectual_property: Ethical problems are most pertinent when socially valuable goods like life-saving medicines are given IP protection.
intellectual_property: Intellectual property (IP) is a category of property that includes intangible creations of the human intellect.
intellectual_property: This law contains two provisions criminalizing two sorts of activity.
intellectual_property: By and large, these principles still remain the basic principles of current patent laws.
intellectual_property: These doctrinal reforms have further strengthened the industry, lending the MPAA even more power and authority.
intellectual_property: from the patent owner.
intellectual_property: In many countries, a trademark receives protection without registration, but registering a trademark provides legal advantages for enforcement.
intellectual_property: The intangible nature of intellectual property presents difficulties when compared with traditional property like land or goods.
intellectual_property: Infringement can be addressed by civil litigation and, in several jurisdictions, under criminal law.
intellectual_property: Generally speaking, it is what makes a product look appealing, and as such, it increases the commercial value of goods.
intellectual_property: They argue that, as we own our bodies which are the laborers, this right of ownership extends to what we create.
intellectual_property: Equivalent provisions, to prevent circumvention of copyright protection have existed in EU for some time, and are being expanded in, for example, Article 6 and 7 the Copyright Directive.
intellectual_property: Laws may permit circumvention under specific conditions, such as when it is necessary to achieve interoperability with the circumventor's program, or for accessibility reasons; however, distribution of circumvention tools or instructions may be illegal.
intellectual_property: A trademark is a recognizable sign, design or expression that distinguishes a particular trader's products or services from similar products or services of other traders.
intellectual_property: "If some intellectual property is desirable because it encourages innovation, they reason, more is better.
intellectual_property: To be sure, this is a good idea, and others notice it.
intellectual_property: Other examples are Article 7 of the Software Directive of 1991 (91/250/EEC), and the Conditional Access Directive of 1998 (98/84/EEC).
intellectual_property: The value of intellectual property is considered similarly high in other developed nations, such as those in the European Union.
intellectual_property: Although Locke had never explicitly stated that natural rights applied to products of the mind, it is possible to apply his argument to intellectual property rights, in which it would be unjust for people to misuse another's ideas.
intellectual_property: It states that patents might be granted for "any new and ingenious device, not previously made", provided it was useful.
intellectual_property: One of the most important aspects of global IP governance is the Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS).
intellectual_property: "An IPR driven regime is therefore not a regime that is conductive to the investment of R&D of products that are socially valuable to predominately poor populations".
intellectual_property: Appropriating these products is viewed as unjust.
intellectual_property: The Venetian Patent Statute of 19 March 1474, established by the Republic of Venice, is usually considered to be the earliest codified patent system in the world.
intellectual_property: Personality theorists believe intellectual property is an extension of an individual.
intellectual_property: Personality theorists argue that, by being a creator of something, one is inherently at risk of (and vulnerable to) having their ideas and designs stolen and/or altered.
intellectual_property: Other criticism of intellectual property law concerns the expansion of intellectual property, both in duration and in scope.
intellectual_property: Examples of trade secrets include Coca-Cola's formulas for its soft drinks and the WD-40 Company's formula for its lubricant WD-40.
intellectual_property: Critics like Philip Bennet argue that this does not provide adequate protection against cultural appropriation of indigenous knowledge, for which a collective IP regime is needed.
intellectual_property: Patents have been granted for living organisms, and in the United States, certain living organisms have been patentable for over a century.
intellectual_property: This can hinder legal uses, affecting public domain works, limitations and exceptions to copyright, or uses allowed by the copyright holder.
intellectual_property: Critics argue that this term specially serves the doctrinal agenda of parties opposing reform in the public interest or otherwise abusing related legislations, and that it disallows intelligent discussion about specific and often unrelated aspects of copyright, patents, trademarks, etc.
intellectual_property: "Literary property" was the term predominantly used in the British legal debates of the 1760s and 1770s over the extent to which authors and publishers of works also had rights deriving from the common law of property (Millar v Taylor (1769), Hinton v Donaldson (1773), Donaldson v Becket (1774)).
intellectual_property: Until the 2000s, the purpose of intellectual property law was to give as little protection as possible in order to encourage innovation.
intellectual_property: The term "industrial property" is sometimes used to refer to a large subset of intellectual property rights including patents, trademarks, industrial designs, utility models, service marks, trade names, and geographical indications.
intellectual_property: The argument that an intellectual property right should (in the interests of better balancing of relevant private and public interests) be termed an intellectual monopoly privilege (IMP) has been advanced by several academics including Birgitte Andersen and Thomas Faunce.
intellectual_property: The "personality" argument is based on a quote from Hegel: Every man has the right to turn his will upon a thing or make the thing an object of his will, that is to say, to set aside the mere thing and recreate it as his own.
intellectual_property: The thinking is that creators will not have sufficient incentive to invent unless they are legally entitled to capture the full social value of their inventions".
intellectual_property: The second, 18 U.S.C.
intellectual_property: The natural rights/justice argument is based on Locke's idea that a person has a natural right over the labour and products which are produced by their body.
intellectual_property: economy is more than US$5 trillion and creates employment for an estimated 18 million American people.
intellectual_property: This has consequences for both political and economic freedom within a society."
The World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) recognizes that conflicts may exist between respecting  and implementing current intellectual property systems and other human rights.
intellectual_property: Despite the controversy, the agreement has extensively incorporated intellectual property rights into the global trading system for the first time in 1995, and has prevailed as the most comprehensive agreement reached by the world.
intellectual_property: In the United States, while copyright is created the instant a work is fixed, generally the copyright holder can only get money damages if the owner registers the copyright.
intellectual_property: Woodbury wrote that "only in this way can we protect intellectual property, the labors of the mind, productions and interests are as much a man's own ...
intellectual_property: There are limitations and exceptions to copyright, allowing limited use of copyrighted works, which does not constitute infringement.
intellectual_property: A member's non-compliance with the TRIPS Agreement may be grounds for suit under the WTO's Dispute Settlement Mechanism.
intellectual_property: A trade secret is a formula, practice, process, design, instrument, pattern, or compilation of information which is not generally known or reasonably ascertainable, by which a business can obtain an economic advantage over competitors and customers.
intellectual_property: Utilitarians argue that, without intellectual property, there would be a lack of incentive to produce new ideas.
intellectual_property: Peter Drahos notes, "Property rights confer authority over resources.
intellectual_property: Pursuant to TRIPS, any sign which is "capable of distinguishing" the products or services of one business from the products or services of another business is capable of constituting a trademark.
intellectual_property: The backronyms intellectual protectionism and intellectual poverty, whose initials are also IP, have also found supporters, especially among those who have used the backronym digital restrictions management.
intellectual_property: The variety must, amongst others, be novel and distinct and for registration the evaluation of propagating material of the variety is considered.
intellectual_property: These licensing frameworks provide creators and institutions with flexible ways to manage copyrighted works while maintaining legal clarity in digital and collaborative environments.
intellectual_property: Various moral justifications for private property can be used to argue in favor of the morality of intellectual property, such as:
intellectual_property: The best-known types are patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets.
intellectual_property: Economists estimate that two-thirds of the value of large businesses in the United States can be traced to intangible assets.
intellectual_property: Developing countries' lack of bargaining power relative to the developed countries driving the global IP ratchet means that developing countries' ability to regulate intellectual property to advance domestic interests is eroding.
intellectual_property: The term "intellectual property" began to be used in the 19th century, though it was not until the late 20th century that intellectual property became commonplace in most of the world's legal systems.
intellectual_property: IP is a key component of the leading multinational tax avoidance base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tools, which the OECD estimates costs $100‍–‍240 billion in lost annual tax revenues.
intellectual_property: Media related to Intellectual property at Wikimedia Commons
The European Audiovisual Observatory hosts articles on copyright legislature and covers media laws in their newsletter
Internet/Media Piracy: Statistics & Facts—Statista
intellectual_property: European intellectual property law is shaped by the notion that ideas are an "extension of oneself and of one's personality".
intellectual_property: The growth of the Internet, and particularly distributed search engines like Kazaa and Gnutella, have represented a challenge for copyright policy.
intellectual_property: A related argument is that unlike the situation with tangible property, there is no natural scarcity of a particular idea or information: once it exists at all, it can be re-used and duplicated indefinitely without such re-use diminishing the original.
intellectual_property: This is mainly as a result of knowledge being traditionally viewed as a public good, in order to allow its extensive dissemination and improvement.
intellectual_property: To enrich the body of knowledge and to stimulate innovation, it is an obligation for patent owners to disclose valuable information about their inventions to the public.
intellectual_property: This absolute protection or full-value view treats intellectual property as another type of "real" property, typically adopting its law and rhetoric.
intellectual_property: Free Software Foundation founder Richard Stallman argues that, although the term intellectual property is in wide use, it should be rejected altogether, because it "systematically distorts and confuses these issues, and its use was and is promoted by those who gain from this confusion".
intellectual_property: The departure of the U.S.
intellectual_property: Stephan Kinsella, an anarcho-capitalist on the right-wing of libertarianism, argues against intellectual property because allowing property rights in ideas and information creates artificial scarcity and infringes on the right to own tangible property.
intellectual_property: According to the World Intellectual Property Organization, women composed only 16.5% of patent holders even as recently as 2020.
intellectual_property: To achieve this, the law gives people and businesses property rights to certain information and intellectual goods they create, usually for a limited period of time.
intellectual_property: In amicus briefs in important cases, in lobbying before Congress, and in its statements to the public, the MPAA has advocated strong protection of intellectual property rights.
intellectual_property: The first clear example of modern usage goes back as early as 1808, when it was used as a heading title in a collection of essays.
intellectual_property: According to Jean-Frédéric Morin, "the global intellectual property regime is currently in the midst of a paradigm shift".
intellectual_property: Copyright does not cover ideas and information themselves, only the form or manner in which they are expressed.
intellectual_property: Some commentators have noted that the objective of intellectual property legislators and supporters of intellectual property laws appears to be "objective protection".
intellectual_property: property" goes back earlier.
intellectual_property: In 2004, the General Assembly of WIPO adopted The Geneva Declaration on the Future of the World Intellectual Property Organization which argues that WIPO should "focus more on the needs of developing countries, and to view IP as one of many tools for development—not as an end in itself".
intellectual_property: § 1831(a), criminalizes the theft of trade secrets to benefit foreign powers.
intellectual_property: According to the Committee, when systems fail to do so, they risk infringing upon the human right to food and health, and to cultural participation and scientific benefits.
intellectual_property: Kinsella uses the following scenario to argue this point:[I]magine the time when men lived in caves.
intellectual_property: Lockeans argue that intellectual property is justified based on deservedness and hard work.
intellectual_property: In the United States, trade secrets are protected under state law, and states have nearly universally adopted the Uniform Trade Secrets Act.
intellectual_property: Bilateral and multi-lateral agreements often establish IP requirements above the requirements of the TRIPS Agreement.
intellectual_property: While the application of IP rights can allow companies to charge higher than the marginal cost of production in order to recoup the costs of research and development, the price may exclude from the market anyone who cannot afford the cost of the product, in this case a life-saving drug.
intellectual_property: In 2005, the Royal Society of Arts launched the Adelphi Charter, aimed at creating an international policy statement to frame how governments should make balanced intellectual property law.
intellectual_property: The electronic age has seen an increase in the attempt to use software-based DRM tools to restrict the copying and use of digitally based works.
intellectual_property: This safe harbor does not exist in the US unless the research is done for purely philosophical purposes, or to gather data to prepare an application for regulatory approval of a drug.
intellectual_property: In framing its presentations, the association has claimed that people are entitled to the property that is produced by their labor.
intellectual_property: One bright guy—let's call him Galt-Magnon—decides to build a log cabin on an open field, near his crops.
intellectual_property: The presumption is that they promote public welfare by encouraging the "creation, production, and distribution of intellectual works".
intellectual_property: Use of the term intellectual rights has declined since the early 1980s, as use of the term intellectual property has increased.
intellectual_property: However, in 2013, the UK Intellectual Property Office stated: "There are millions of intangible business assets whose value is either not being leveraged at all, or only being leveraged inadvertently".
intellectual_property: Intellectual property thus ensures this right with regard to production.
intellectual_property: He mentions that "if copyright were a natural right nothing could justify terminating this right after a certain period of time".
intellectual_property: The modern concept of intellectual property was developed in England in the 17th and 18th centuries.
intellectual_property: The industry has had victories against some services, including a highly publicized case against the file-sharing company Napster, and some people have been prosecuted for sharing files in violation of copyright.
intellectual_property: There are many types of intellectual property, and some countries recognize more than others.
intellectual_property: and the EU Commission simultaneously decided to depart from the OECD BEPS Project timetable, which was set up in 2013 to combat IP BEPS tax tools like the above, and launch their own anti-IP BEPS tax regimes:
intellectual_property: They argue such an analogy fails because physical property is generally rivalrous while intellectual works are non-rivalrous (that is, if one makes a copy of a work, the enjoyment of the copy does not prevent enjoyment of the original).
intellectual_property: demonstrating the evolution of patents from royal prerogative to common-law doctrine.
intellectual_property: Intellectual property protects moral claims that pertain to personality.
intellectual_property: Its peculiar character, too, is that no one possesses the less, because every other possesses the whole of it.
intellectual_property: Examples of such doctrines are the fair use and fair dealing doctrine.
intellectual_property: According to legal scholar Mark Lemley, it was only at this point that the term really began to be used in the United States (which had not been a party to the Berne Convention), and it did not enter popular usage there until passage of the Bayh–Dole Act in 1980.
intellectual_property: § 1832, criminalizes their theft for commercial or economic purposes.
intellectual_property: The term can be found used in an October 1845 Massachusetts Circuit Court ruling in the patent case Davoll et al.
intellectual_property: The Recording Industry Association of America, in particular, has been on the front lines of the fight against copyright infringement, which the industry calls "piracy".
intellectual_property: The history of patents does not begin with inventions, but rather with royal grants by Queen Elizabeth I (1558–1603) for monopoly privileges.
intellectual_property: The first, 18 U.S.C.
intellectual_property: Utilitarians believe that intellectual property stimulates social progress and pushes people to further innovation.
intellectual_property: With no need for registration or copyright notices, this is thought to have led to an increase in orphan works (copyrighted works for which the copyright owner cannot be contacted), a problem that has been noticed and addressed by governmental bodies around the world.
intellectual_property: The Statute of Monopolies (1624) and the British Statute of Anne (1710) are seen as the origins of the current patent law and copyright respectively, firmly establishing the concept of intellectual property.
intellectual_property: In contrast, the OECD has spent years developing and advocating intellectual property as a legal and a GAAP accounting concept.
intellectual_property: Another aspect of current U.S.
intellectual_property: A joint research project of the WIPO and the United Nations University measuring the impact of IP systems on six Asian countries found "a positive correlation between the strengthening of the IP system and subsequent economic growth."
intellectual_property: Locke's argument for intellectual property is based upon the idea that laborers have the right to control the material they create.
intellectual_property: Unlike traditional property, intellectual property is "indivisible", since an unlimited number of people can in theory "consume" an intellectual good without its being depleted.
intellectual_property: Plant breeders' rights or plant variety rights are the rights to commercially use a new variety of a plant.
intellectual_property: The arguments that justify intellectual property fall into three major categories.
intellectual_property: According to the utilitarian-pragmatic argument, societies that protect private property are more effective and prosperous than societies that do not.
intellectual_property: The concept's origin can potentially be traced back further.
intellectual_property: By providing innovators with "durable and tangible return on their investment of time, labor, and other resources", intellectual property rights seek to maximize social utility.
intellectual_property: As of 2011, trade in counterfeit copyrighted and trademarked works was a $600 billion industry worldwide and accounted for 5‍–‍7% of global trade.
intellectual_property: This disparity is the result of several factors including systemic bias, sexism and discrimination within the intellectual property space, underrepresentation within STEM, and barriers to access of necessary finance and knowledge in order to obtain intellectual property rights, among other reasons.
