internet: Internet blackouts affecting almost entire countries can be achieved by governments as a form of Internet censorship, as in the blockage of the Internet in Egypt, whereby approximately 93% of networks were without access in 2011 in an attempt to stop mobilization for anti-government protests.
internet: Many have understood the Internet as an extension of the Habermasian notion of the public sphere, observing how network communication technologies provide something like a global civic forum.
internet: Many Internet forums have sections devoted to games and funny videos.
internet: The linking of commercial networks and enterprises by the early 1990s, as well as the advent of the World Wide Web, marked the beginning of the transition to the modern Internet.
internet: The Internet (or internet) is the global system of interconnected computer networks that uses the Internet protocol suite (TCP/IP) to communicate between networks and devices.
internet: The origin and authenticity of the file received may be checked by a digital signature.
internet: Business-to-business and financial services on the Internet affect supply chains across entire industries.
internet: The word Internet may be capitalized as a proper noun, although this is becoming less common.
internet: Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press.
internet: The resulting contributions and standards are published as Request for Comments (RFC) documents on the IETF web site.
internet: Fragmentation restricts access to media content and tends to affect the poorest users the most.
internet: Defense theorists have also speculated about the possibilities of hackers using cyber warfare using similar methods on a large scale.
internet: Examples of that technology include Wi-Fi, Ethernet, and DSL.
internet: Stanford Federal Credit Union was the first financial institution to offer online Internet banking services to all of its members in October 1994.
internet: This growth is often attributed to the lack of central administration, which allows organic growth of the network, as well as the non-proprietary nature of the Internet protocols, which encourages vendor interoperability and prevents any one company from exerting too much control over the network.
internet: According to Symantec's 2018 Internet Security Threat Report (ISTR), malware variants number has increased to 669,947,865 in 2017, which is twice as many malware variants as in 2016.
internet: A popular twist on Internet-based philanthropy is the use of peer-to-peer lending for charitable purposes.
internet: Steady advances in semiconductor technology and optical networking created new economic opportunities for commercial involvement in the expansion of the network in its core and for delivering services to the public.
internet: Most traditional communication media, including telephone, radio, television, paper mail, newspapers, and print publishing, have been transformed by the Internet, giving rise to new media such as email, online music, digital newspapers, news aggregators, and audio and video streaming websites.
internet: In mid-1989, MCI Mail and Compuserve established connections to the Internet, delivering email and public access products to the half million users of the Internet.
internet: Similar systems are operated by Iranian secret police to identify and suppress dissidents.
internet: Mobile phones, datacards, handheld game consoles and cellular routers allow users to connect to the Internet wirelessly.
internet: scholarly literature through Google Scholar) is available on websites.
internet: when the NSFNet was decommissioned, removing the last restrictions on use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
internet: Subnet masks are also expressed in dot-decimal notation like an address.
internet: Streaming media is the real-time delivery of digital media for immediate consumption or enjoyment by end users.
internet: At the top is the application layer, where communication is described in terms of the objects or data structures most appropriate for each application.
internet: Internet packets are carried by other full-fledged networking protocols, with the Internet acting as a homogeneous networking standard, running across heterogeneous hardware, with the packets guided to their destinations by IP routers.
internet: Kiva pioneered this concept in 2005, offering the first web-based service to publish individual loan profiles for funding.
internet: The NSFNet expanded into academic and research organizations in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Japan in 1988–89.
internet: Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1 Gbit/s, 10 Gbit/s, or more.
internet: However, the explosive growth of the Internet has led to IPv4 address exhaustion, which entered its final stage in 2011, when the global IPv4 address allocation pool was exhausted.
internet: The presidential campaign of Howard Dean in 2004 in the United States was notable for its success in soliciting donation via the Internet.
internet: Research networks tend to interconnect with large subnetworks such as GEANT, GLORIAD, Internet2, and the UK's national research and education network, JANET.
internet: It was designed in 1981 to address up to ≈4.3 billion (109) hosts.
internet: In 2016, the Oxford English Dictionary found that, based on a study of around 2.5 billion printed and online sources, "Internet" was capitalized in 54% of cases.
internet: The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
internet: In those settings, they have been found useful for collaboration on grant writing, strategic planning, departmental documentation, and committee work.
internet: In 1991 the Commercial Internet eXchange was founded, allowing PSInet to communicate with the other commercial networks CERFnet and Alternet.
internet: As of 2023, Internet traffic to pornographic video sites rivalled that of mainstream video streaming and sharing services.
internet: Content management systems allow collaborating teams to work on shared sets of documents simultaneously without accidentally destroying each other's work.
internet: The price can be paid by the remote charging of funds from, for example, a credit card whose details are also passed—usually fully encrypted—across the Internet.
internet: In November 2006, the Internet was included on USA Today's list of the New Seven Wonders.
internet: National PTTs and commercial providers developed the X.25 standard and deployed it on public data networks.
internet: The concept of sending electronic text messages between parties, analogous to mailing letters or memos, predates the creation of the Internet.
internet: Internet addiction disorder is excessive computer use that interferes with daily life.
internet: IP addresses are used by the Internet infrastructure to direct internet packets to their destinations.
internet: The Internet continues to grow, driven by ever-greater amounts of online information and knowledge, commerce, entertainment and social networking services.
internet: ICANN is governed by an international board of directors drawn from across the Internet technical, business, academic, and other non-commercial communities.
internet: It provides this service with a variety of possible characteristics, such as ordered, reliable delivery (TCP), and an unreliable datagram service (UDP).
internet: Cybercrime, which includes malware attacks as well as other crimes committed by computer, was predicted to cost the world economy US$6 trillion in 2021, and is increasing at a rate of 15% per year.
internet: This growth, formalized as Edholm's law, was catalyzed by advances in MOS technology, laser light wave systems, and noise performance.
internet: Malware poses serious problems to individuals and businesses on the Internet.
internet: The technical underpinning and standardization of the core protocols is an activity of the non-profit Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).
internet: The Internet can be accessed almost anywhere by numerous means, including through mobile Internet devices.
internet: Under the Act, all U.S.
internet: Inventing the Internet.
internet: In 1982, the Internet Protocol Suite (TCP/IP) was standardized, which facilitated worldwide proliferation of interconnected networks.
internet: Streaming companies (such as Netflix, Disney+, Amazon's Prime Video, Mubi, Hulu, and Apple TV+) now dominate the entertainment industry, eclipsing traditional broadcasters.
internet: Websites, such as DonorsChoose and GlobalGiving, allow small-scale donors to direct funds to individual projects of their choice.
internet: The Internet Explained, Vincent Zegna & Mike Pepper, Sonet Digital, November 2005, pp.
internet: Modern character encoding standards, such as Unicode, allow for development and communication in the world's widely used languages.
internet: The terms Internet and World Wide Web are often used interchangeably; it is common to speak of "going on the Internet" when using a web browser to view web pages.
internet: Below this top layer, the transport layer connects applications on different hosts with a logical channel through the network.
internet: The Rise of the Network Society.
internet: After the Symposium on Operating Systems Principles in 1967, packet switching from the proposed NPL network was incorporated into the design of the ARPANET, an experimental resource sharing network proposed by ARPA.
internet: In 2014 the world's Internet users surpassed 3 billion or 44 percent of world population, but two-thirds came from the richest countries, with 78 percent of Europeans using the Internet, followed by 57 percent of the Americas.
internet: Globally unified name spaces are essential for maintaining the global reach of the Internet.
internet: This results in the logical division of an IP address into two fields, the network number or routing prefix and the rest field or host identifier.
internet: Audio streamers such as Spotify and Apple Music also have significant market share in the audio entertainment market.
internet: A number of advertising-funded ostensible video sharing websites known as "tube sites" have been created to host shared pornographic video content.
internet: Tier 2 and lower-level networks buy Internet transit from other providers to reach at least some parties on the global Internet, though they may also engage in peering.
internet: Advertising on popular web pages can be lucrative, and e-commerce.
internet: TCP/IP network access expanded again in 1986 when the National Science Foundation Network (NSFNet) provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States for researchers, first at speeds of 56 kbit/s and later at 1.5 Mbit/s and 45 Mbit/s.
internet: The organization coordinates the assignment of unique identifiers for use on the Internet, including domain names, IP addresses, application port numbers in the transport protocols, and many other parameters.
internet: Modern smartphones can access the Internet through cellular carrier networks, and internet usage by mobile and tablet devices exceeded desktop worldwide for the first time in October 2016.
internet: These documents may also contain computer data, including graphics, sounds, text, video, multimedia and interactive content.
internet: Grassroots efforts have led to wireless community networks.
internet: For locating individual computers on the network, the Internet provides IP addresses.
internet: Thereafter, the ARPANET gradually developed into a decentralized communications network, connecting remote centers and military bases in the United States.
internet: In 2011, Internet advertising revenues in the United States surpassed those of cable television and nearly exceeded those of broadcast television.
internet: Thus, translation facilities exist for internetworking, and some nodes have duplicate networking software for both networks.
internet: According to a non-peer-reviewed study published in 2018 by The Shift Project (a French think tank funded by corporate sponsors), nearly 4% of global CO2 emissions could be attributed to global data transfer and the necessary infrastructure.
internet: Text taken from World Trends in Freedom of Expression and Media Development Global Report 2017/2018​, 202, UNESCO.
internet: The responsibility for the architectural design of the Internet software systems has been assumed by the IETF.
internet: Later in 1990, Tim Berners-Lee began writing WorldWideWeb, the first web browser, after two years of lobbying CERN management.
internet: ARPANET development began with two network nodes which were interconnected between the University of California, Los Angeles and the Stanford Research Institute on 29 October 1969.
internet: Cyberslacking can become a drain on corporate resources; employees spend a significant amount of time surfing the Web while at work.
internet: Internet telephony is a common communications service realized with the Internet.
internet: After English (27%), the most requested languages on the World Wide Web are Chinese (25%), Spanish (8%), Japanese (5%), Portuguese and German (4% each), Arabic, French and Russian (3% each), and Korean (2%).
internet: Today, the term Internet most commonly refers to the global system of interconnected computer networks, though it may also refer to any group of smaller networks.
internet: The Internet has enabled and accelerated new forms of personal interaction through instant messaging, Internet forums, and social networking services.
internet: Other video sharing websites include Vimeo, Instagram and TikTok.
internet: However, in terms of penetration, in 2022, China had a 70% penetration rate compared to India's 60% and the United States's 90%.
internet: The work of Louis Pouzin and Robert Metcalfe had important influences on the resulting TCP/IP design.
internet: VoIP systems now dominate many markets, being as easy and convenient as a traditional telephone, while having substantial cost savings, especially over long distances.
internet: The English Wikipedia has the largest user base among wikis on the World Wide Web and ranks in the top 10 among all sites in terms of traffic.
internet: Many political groups use the Internet to achieve a new method of organizing for carrying out their mission, having given rise to Internet activism.
internet: E-government is the use of technological communications devices, such as the Internet, to provide public services to citizens and other persons in a country or region.
internet: It uses a web player to stream and show video files.
internet: E-government offers opportunities for more direct and convenient citizen access to government and for government provision of services directly to citizens.
internet: IP addresses are generally assigned to equipment either automatically via Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, or are configured.
internet: Many countries, including the United States, have enacted laws against the possession or distribution of certain material, such as child pornography, via the Internet but do not mandate filter software.
internet: Many free or commercially available software programs, called content-control software are available to users to block offensive specific on individual computers or networks in order to limit access by children to pornographic material or depiction of violence.
internet: In the 1960s, computer scientists began developing systems for time-sharing of computer resources.
internet: Mobile Internet connectivity has played an important role in expanding access in recent years, especially in Asia and the Pacific and in Africa.
internet: In 2019, Kuwait, Qatar, the Falkland Islands, Bermuda and Iceland had the highest Internet penetration by the number of users, with 93% or more of the population with access.
internet: The number of unique mobile cellular subscriptions increased from 3.9 billion in 2012 to 4.8 billion in 2016, two-thirds of the world's population, with more than half of subscriptions located in Asia and the Pacific.
internet: The protocol suite does not explicitly specify hardware methods to transfer bits, or protocols to manage such hardware, but assumes that appropriate technology is available.
internet: Other user networks and research networks, such as the Merit Network and CYCLADES, were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
internet: The Internet allows greater flexibility in working hours and location, especially with the spread of unmetered high-speed connections.
internet: Carr believes that Internet use has other effects on individuals, for instance improving skills of scan-reading and interfering with the deep thinking that leads to true creativity.
internet: URIs symbolically identify services, web servers, databases, and the documents and resources that they can provide.
internet: The word Internet was used in 1945 by the United States War Department in a radio operator's manual, and in 1974 as the shorthand form of Internetwork.
internet: As of 2018, 80% of the world's population were covered by a 4G network.
internet: The communications infrastructure of the Internet consists of its hardware components and a system of software layers that control various aspects of the architecture.
internet: Disruptions of submarine communications cables may cause blackouts or slowdowns to large areas, such as in the 2008 submarine cable disruption.
internet: A report by Oxford Economics added those two together to estimate the total size of the digital economy at $20.4 trillion, equivalent to roughly 13.8% of global sales.
internet: The Internet carries a vast range of information services and resources, such as the interlinked hypertext documents and applications of the World Wide Web (WWW), electronic mail, discussion groups, internet telephony, streaming media and file sharing.
internet: In 2022, 54% of the world's Internet users were based in Asia, 14% in Europe, 7% in North America, 10% in Latin America and the Caribbean, 11% in Africa, 4% in the Middle East and 1% in Oceania.
internet: While much has been written of the economic advantages of Internet-enabled commerce, there is also evidence that some aspects of the Internet such as maps and location-aware services may serve to reinforce economic inequality and the digital divide.
internet: By design, IPv6 is not directly interoperable with IPv4.
internet: The large amount of data gathered from packet capture requires surveillance software that filters and reports relevant information, such as the use of certain words or phrases, the access to certain types of web sites, or communicating via email or chat with certain parties.
internet: whether efficiency gains over time had been taken into account) and to whether "end devices such as personal computers and servers are included" in the analysis.
internet: IPv6 deployment has been ongoing since the mid-2000s and is currently in growing deployment around the world, since Internet address registries began to urge all resource managers to plan rapid adoption and conversion.
internet: Online shopping has also grown to occupy a significant market across industries, enabling firms to extend brick and mortar presences to serve larger markets.
internet: The rest field is an identifier for a specific host or network interface.
internet: Some governments, such as those of Myanmar, Iran, North Korea, Mainland China, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, restrict access to content on the Internet within their territories, especially to political and religious content, with domain name and keyword filters.
internet: For example, a web browser operates in a client–server application model and exchanges information with the HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and an application-germane data structure, such as the HyperText Markup Language (HTML).
internet: However, the World Wide Web, or the Web, is only one of a large number of Internet services.
internet: For IPv4, a network may also be characterized by its subnet mask or netmask, which is the bitmask that when applied by a bitwise AND operation to any IP address in the network, yields the routing prefix.
internet: Since 2021, malware has been designed to target computer systems that run critical infrastructure such as the electricity distribution network.
internet: They consist of fixed-length numbers, which are found within the packet.
internet: The Internet is a global network that comprises many voluntarily interconnected autonomous networks.
internet: Less-developed countries are more vulnerable due to the small number of high-capacity links.
internet: Usually, these activities constitute cybercrime.
internet: The most popular social networking services commonly forbid users under the age of 13.
internet: Between 2000 and 2009, the number of Internet users globally rose from 390 million to 1.9 billion.
internet: It is a network of networks that comprises private, public, academic, business, and government networks of local to global scope, linked by electronic, wireless, and optical networking technologies.
internet: The most prominent component of the Internet model is the Internet Protocol.
internet: CBeebies) to post-doctoral (e.g.
internet: How We Built Internet Culture, and Why It Matters, Verso, 2025, 262 pp.; and Cory Doctorow, Enshittification: Why Everything Suddenly Got Worse and What to Do About It, MCD, 338 pp.), The New York Review of Books, vol.
internet: As of 31 March 2011, the estimated total number of Internet users was 2.095 billion (30% of world population).
internet: Large organizations, such as academic institutions, large enterprises, and governments, may perform the same function as ISPs, engaging in peering and purchasing transit on behalf of their internal networks.
internet: The study also said that online video streaming alone accounted for 60% of this data transfer and therefore contributed to over 300 million tons of CO2 emission per year, and argued for new "digital sobriety" regulations restricting the use and size of video files.
internet: HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is the main access protocol of the World Wide Web.
internet: Many parents choose to enable Internet filtering or supervise their children's online activities in an attempt to protect their children from pornography or violent content on the Internet.
internet: ISBN 978-1-4051-9686-4.
internet: Domain Name Systems convert user-inputted domain names (e.g.
internet: E-commerce seeks to add revenue streams using the Internet to build and enhance relationships with clients and partners.
internet: As technology advanced and commercial opportunities fueled reciprocal growth, the volume of Internet traffic started experiencing similar characteristics as that of the scaling of MOS transistors, exemplified by Moore's law, doubling every 18 months.
internet: The Internet Protocol layer code is independent of the type of network that it is physically running over.
internet: Wikis have also been used in the academic community for sharing and dissemination of information across institutional and international boundaries.
internet: As with any computer network, the Internet physically consists of routers, media (such as cabling and radio links), repeaters, and modems.
internet: End-nodes typically use a default route that points toward an ISP providing transit, while ISP routers use the Border Gateway Protocol to establish the most efficient routing across the complex connections of the global Internet.
internet: 19 (4 December 2025), pp.
internet: At the top of the routing hierarchy are the tier 1 networks, large telecommunication companies that exchange traffic directly with each other via very high speed fiber-optic cables and governed by peering agreements.
internet: Web services also use HTTP for communication between software systems for information transfer, sharing and exchanging business data and logistics and is one of many languages or protocols that can be used for communication on the Internet.
internet: IP enables internetworking, essentially establishing the Internet itself.
internet: The default gateway is the node that serves as the forwarding host (router) to other networks when no other route specification matches the destination IP address of a packet.
internet: In 1974, Vint Cerf at Stanford University and Bob Kahn at DARPA published a proposal for "A Protocol for Packet Network Intercommunication".
internet: These range from MMORPG to first-person shooters, from role-playing video games to online gambling.
internet: Major players in this field include the market leader Aylo, the operator of PornHub and numerous other branded sites, as well as other independent operators such as xHamster and Xvideos.
internet: For example, 255.255.255.0 is the subnet mask for the prefix 198.51.100.0/24.
internet: By 1995, the Internet was fully commercialized in the U.S.
internet: During the late 1990s, it was estimated that traffic on the public Internet grew by 100 percent per year, while the mean annual growth in the number of Internet users was thought to be between 20% and 50%.
internet: Social media companies have been criticized in the past for not doing enough to aid victims of online abuse.
internet: The name of the principal internetworking protocol, the Internet Protocol, lends its name to voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP).
internet: End-users who only access the Internet when needed to perform a function or obtain information, represent the bottom of the routing hierarchy.
internet: Nicholas G.
internet: The word internetted was used as early as 1849, meaning interconnected or interwoven.
internet: A subnet or subnetwork is a logical subdivision of an IP network.
internet: Another area of leisure activity on the Internet is multiplayer gaming.
internet: Commercial Wi-Fi services that cover large areas are available in many cities, such as New York, London, Vienna, Toronto, San Francisco, Philadelphia, Chicago and Pittsburgh.
internet: Early computer systems were limited to the characters in the American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII), a subset of the Latin alphabet.
internet: Computers that belong to a subnet are addressed with an identical most-significant bit-group in their IP addresses.
internet: IPv6 uses 128 bits for the IP address and was standardized in 1998.
internet: The Internet has no single centralized governance in either technological implementation or policies for access and usage.
internet: One solution, zero-rating, is the practice of Internet service providers allowing users free connectivity to access specific content or applications without cost.
internet: World Wide Web browser software, such as Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, Apple's Safari, and Google Chrome, enable users to navigate from one web page to another via the hyperlinks embedded in the documents.
internet: Queens, New York has used a wiki to allow citizens to collaborate on the design and planning of a local park.
internet: It operates without a central governing body.
internet: While online gaming has been around since the 1970s, modern modes of online gaming began with subscription services such as GameSpy and MPlayer.
internet: At that time, Uber employed 1,000 full-time employees and was valued at $18.2 billion, about the same valuation as Avis Rent a Car and The Hertz Corporation combined, which together employed almost 60,000 people.
internet: In March 1990, the first high-speed T1 (1.5 Mbit/s) link between the NSFNET and Europe was installed between Cornell University and CERN, allowing much more robust communications than were capable with satellites.
internet: Internet resources, hardware, and software components are the target of criminal or malicious attempts to gain unauthorized control to cause interruptions, commit fraud, engage in blackmail or access private information.
internet: It exhibits emergent phenomena that depend on its large-scale organization.
internet: The routing prefix may be expressed in Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) notation written as the first address of a network, followed by a slash character (/), and ending with the bit-length of the prefix.
internet: Its members include individuals as well as corporations, organizations, governments, and universities.
internet: An example of collaborative software is the free software movement, which has produced, among other things, Linux, Mozilla Firefox, and OpenOffice.org (later forked into LibreOffice).
internet: Social networking services for younger children, which claim to provide better levels of protection for children, also exist.
internet: For example, 198.51.100.0/24 is the prefix of the Internet Protocol version 4 network starting at the given address, having 24 bits allocated for the network prefix, and the remaining 8 bits reserved for host addressing.
internet: Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation (NSF) funded the Computer Science Network (CSNET).
internet: A 2013 Institute for Local Self-Reliance report states that brick-and-mortar retailers employ 47 people for every $10 million in sales, while Amazon employs only 14.
internet: Essentially all modern computer operating systems support both versions of the Internet Protocol.
internet: The limits that users face on accessing information via mobile applications coincide with a broader process of fragmentation of the Internet.
internet: Internet exchange points are major traffic exchanges with physical connections to multiple ISPs.
internet: This form of recreation creates communities, where people of all ages and origins enjoy the fast-paced world of multiplayer games.
internet: Electronic commerce may be responsible for consolidation and the decline of mom-and-pop, brick and mortar businesses resulting in increases in income inequality.
internet: It includes email marketing, search engine marketing (SEM), social media marketing, many types of display advertising (including web banner advertising), and mobile advertising.
internet: Routing tables are maintained by manual configuration or automatically by routing protocols.
internet: Just months later, on 1 January 1990, PSInet launched an alternate Internet backbone for commercial use; one of the networks that added to the core of the commercial Internet of later years.
internet: On 16 November 2005, the United Nations-sponsored World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis established the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) to discuss Internet-related issues.
internet: Connections were made in 1973 to Norway (NORSAR and, later, NDRE) and to Peter Kirstein's research group at University College London, which provided a gateway to British academic networks, the first internetwork for resource sharing.
internet: Children also face dangers online such as cyberbullying and approaches by sexual predators, who sometimes pose as children themselves.
internet: Social media websites, such as Facebook and Twitter, helped people organize the Arab Spring, by helping activists organize protests, communicate grievances, and disseminate information.
internet: Underlying these layers are the networking technologies that interconnect networks at their borders and exchange traffic across them.
internet: By the late 2010s the Internet had been described as "the main source of scientific information "for the majority of the global North population".
internet: At the bottom of the architecture is the link layer, which connects nodes on the same physical link, and contains protocols that do not require routers for traversal to other links.
internet: IPv4 is the initial version used on the first generation of the Internet and is still in dominant use.
internet: The United States Patent and Trademark Office uses a wiki to allow the public to collaborate on finding prior art relevant to examination of pending patent applications.
internet: This reflects the tendency in English to capitalize new terms and move them to lowercase as they become familiar.
internet: Internet service providers (ISPs) establish worldwide connectivity between individual networks at various levels of scope.
internet: The Internet Society
Living Internet, Internet history and related information, including information from many creators of the Internet
internet: The load of bulk downloads to many users can be eased by the use of "mirror" servers or peer-to-peer networks.
internet: Many common online advertising practices are controversial and increasingly subject to regulation.
internet: Access to the file may be controlled by user authentication, the transit of the file over the Internet may be obscured by encryption, and money may change hands for access to the file.
internet: According to International Data Corporation, the size of worldwide e-commerce, when global business-to-business and -consumer transactions are combined, equate to $16 trillion in 2013.
internet: The overarching definitions of the two principal name spaces on the Internet, the Internet Protocol address (IP address) space and the Domain Name System (DNS), are directed by a maintainer organization, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN).
internet: By 2000 this figure had grown to 51%, and by 2007 more than 97% of all telecommunicated information was carried over the Internet.
internet: Although other network protocols such as UUCP and PTT public data networks had global reach well before this time, this marked the beginning of the Internet as an intercontinental network.
internet: However, incidents of politically motivated Internet censorship have now been recorded in many countries, including western democracies.
internet: Collectively, members and practitioners of such sects construct viable virtual communities of faith, exchanging personal testimonies and engaging in the collective study via email, online chat rooms, and web-based message boards.
internet: Network infrastructure, however, has been lagging in this development.
internet: Research into packet switching, one of the fundamental Internet technologies, started in the work of Paul Baran at RAND in the early 1960s and, independently, Donald Davies at the United Kingdom's National Physical Laboratory in 1965.
internet: Land cables are also vulnerable, as in 2011 when a woman digging for scrap metal severed most connectivity for the nation of Armenia.
internet: Each constituent network sets its own policies.
internet: However, as an example of internetworking, many of the network nodes are not necessarily Internet equipment per se.
internet: Instead, it establishes a parallel version of the Internet not directly accessible with IPv4 software.
internet: Addresses in the range 198.51.100.0 to 198.51.100.255 belong to this network.
internet: It includes computer viruses which are copied with the help of humans, computer worms which copy themselves automatically, software for denial of service attacks, ransomware, botnets, and spyware that reports on the activity and typing of users.
internet: The Internet allows researchers to conduct research remotely via virtual laboratories, with profound changes in reach and generalizability of findings as well as in communication between scientists and in the publication of results.
internet: The origins of the Internet date back to research that enabled the time-sharing of computer resources, the development of packet switching, and the design of computer networks for data communication.
internet: The vast majority of computer surveillance involves the monitoring of data and traffic on the Internet.
internet: A significant number of feminist women have been the target of various forms of harassment, including insults and hate speech, to, in extreme cases, rape and death threats, in response to posts they have made on social media.
internet: Overseas supporters provide funding and support; domestic practitioners distribute tracts, participate in acts of resistance, and share information on the internal situation with outsiders.
internet: Aside from the complex array of physical connections that make up its infrastructure, the Internet is facilitated by bi- or multi-lateral commercial contracts (e.g., peering agreements), and by technical specifications or protocols that describe the exchange of data over the network.
internet: The internet has facilitated the development of virtual universities and distance education, enabling both formal and informal education.
internet: While this list of forbidden resources is supposed to contain only known child pornography sites, the content of the list is secret.
internet: Similarly, the 700-employee room rental start-up Airbnb was valued at $10 billion in 2014, about half as much as Hilton Worldwide, which employs 152,000 people.
internet: Client-side scripts can include animations, games, office applications and scientific demonstrations.
internet: telecommunications providers are required to install packet sniffing technology to allow Federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies to intercept all of their customers' broadband Internet and VoIP traffic.
internet: ISBN 978-0-262-01172-3.
internet: Internet usage has been correlated to users' loneliness.
internet: Castells, Manuel (2010).
internet: Lonely people tend to use the Internet as an outlet for their feelings and to share their stories with others, such as in the "I am lonely will anyone speak to me" thread.
internet: Abbate, Janet (1999).
internet: China's Internet users surpassed a major milestone in 2018, when the country's Internet regulatory authority, China Internet Network Information Centre, announced that China had 802 million users.
internet: Online advertising is a form of marketing and advertising which uses the Internet to deliver promotional marketing messages to consumers.
internet: The required hardware and software were allegedly installed by German Siemens and Finnish Nokia.
internet: However, by 2018, Asia alone accounted for 51% of all Internet users, with 2.2 billion out of the 4.3 billion Internet users in the world.
internet: The researchers attributed these discrepancies mainly to the year of reference (i.e.
internet: The online disinhibition effect describes the tendency of many individuals to behave more stridently or offensively online than they would in person.
internet: China was followed by India, with some 700 million users, with the United States third with 275 million users.
internet: Video sharing websites are also a major factor in the entertainment ecosystem.
internet: YouTube was founded on 15 February 2005 and is now the leading website for free streaming video with more than two billion users.
internet: Two versions of the Internet Protocol exist, IPv4 and IPv6.
internet: Due to laws requiring the documentation of the origin of pornography, these websites now largely operate in conjunction with pornographic movie studios and their own independent creator networks, acting as de-facto video streaming services.
internet: The word is sometimes still capitalized to distinguish the global internet from smaller networks, though many publications, including the AP Stylebook since 2016, recommend the lowercase form in every case.
internet: However, some glitches such as mojibake (incorrect display of some languages' characters) still remain.
internet: In the United States for example, under the Communications Assistance For Law Enforcement Act, all phone calls and broadband Internet traffic (emails, web traffic, instant messaging, etc.) are required to be available for unimpeded real-time monitoring by Federal law enforcement agencies.
internet: Commercial Internet service providers emerged in 1989 in the United States and Australia.
internet: An ISP may use a single upstream provider for connectivity, or implement multihoming to achieve redundancy and load balancing.
internet: The Internet has achieved new relevance as a political tool.
internet: The internet also allows for cloud computing, virtual private networks, remote desktops, and remote work.
internet: In 2011, academic researchers estimated the overall energy used by the Internet to be between 170 and 307 GW, less than two percent of the energy used by humanity.
internet: The World Wide Web is a global collection of documents, images, multimedia, applications, and other resources, logically interrelated by hyperlinks and referenced with Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs), which provide a global system of named references.
internet: The Internet layer implements the Internet Protocol (IP) which enables computers to identify and locate each other by IP address and route their traffic via intermediate transit networks.
internet: The principal methods of networking that enable the Internet are contained in specially designated RFCs that constitute the Internet Standards.
internet: The IETF conducts standard-setting work groups, open to any individual, about the various aspects of Internet architecture.
internet: The third site on the ARPANET was the Culler-Fried Interactive Mathematics Center at the University of California, Santa Barbara followed by the fourth, the Graphics Department at the University of Utah
internet: The Internet Experiment Notes and later RFCs repeated this use.
internet: Traffic data may be estimated from the aggregate volume through the peering points of the Tier 1 network providers, but traffic that stays local in large provider networks may not be accounted for.
internet: ARPA projects, the International Network Working Group and commercial initiatives led to the development of various protocols and standards by which multiple separate networks could become a single network, or a network of networks.
internet: This role of ICANN distinguishes it as perhaps the only central coordinating body for the global Internet.
internet: Other less rigorous documents are simply informative, experimental, or historical, or document the best current practices when implementing Internet technologies.
internet: As of 2025, the International Telecommunication Union estimated that 6 billion people, or 74% of the world's population, used the Internet, while 2.2 billion people remained offline.
internet: YouTube users watch hundreds of millions, and upload hundreds of thousands, of videos daily.
internet: Electronic business encompasses business processes spanning the entire value chain: purchasing, supply chain management, marketing, sales, customer service, and business relationship.
internet: "en.wikipedia.org") into IP addresses.
internet: Malware can be designed to evade antivirus software detection algorithms.
internet: It is the global collection of web pages, documents and other web resources linked by hyperlinks and URLs.
internet: Since 1995, the Internet has tremendously impacted culture and commerce, including the rise of near-instant communication by email, instant messaging, telephony (Voice over Internet Protocol or VoIP), two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web.
internet: Due to naivety, they may also post personal information about themselves online, which could put them or their families at risk unless warned not to do so.
internet: The IPv6 address specification 2001:db8::/32 is a large address block with 296 addresses, having a 32-bit routing prefix.
internet: Licklider proposed the idea of a universal network while working at Bolt Beranek & Newman and, later, leading the Information Processing Techniques Office at the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) of the United States Department of Defense.
internet: Early international collaborations for the ARPANET were rare.
internet: However, these policies can be circumvented by registering an account with a false birth date, and a significant number of children aged under 13 join such sites.
internet: In Norway, Denmark, Finland, and Sweden, major Internet service providers have voluntarily agreed to restrict access to sites listed by authorities.
internet: By 2010, 22% of the world's population had access to computers with 1 billion Google searches every day, 300 million Internet users reading blogs, and 2 billion videos viewed daily on YouTube.
internet: The National Telecommunications and Information Administration, an agency of the United States Department of Commerce, had final approval over changes to the DNS root zone until the IANA stewardship transition on 1 October 2016.
internet: In 1996, OP Financial Group, also a cooperative bank, became the second online bank in the world and the first in Europe.
internet: Agencies, such as the Information Awareness Office, NSA, GCHQ and the FBI, spend billions of dollars per year to develop, purchase, implement, and operate systems for interception and analysis of data.
internet: While the hardware components in the Internet infrastructure can often be used to support other software systems, it is the design and the standardization process of the software that characterizes the Internet and provides the foundation for its scalability and success.
internet: Yeo, ShinJoung (2023), Behind the Search Box: Google and the Global Internet Industry, U of Illinois Press, ISBN 978-0-252-04499-1, JSTOR 10.5406/jj.4116455
internet: Cerf and his graduate students used the term internet as a shorthand for internetwork in RFC 675.
internet: The volume of Internet traffic is difficult to measure because no single point of measurement exists in the multi-tiered, non-hierarchical topology.
internet: It is estimated that in 1993 the Internet carried only 1% of the information flowing through two-way telecommunication.
