intel: However, it is still used to mark processor type and socket on the packaging of Intel's processors.
intel: During the late 1980s and 1990s (after this law was passed), Intel also sued companies that tried to develop competitor chips to the 80386 CPU.
intel: Intel also learned that a voice control regulator is vital, and the interface between the humans and machine eases the discomfort condition, and brings back some sense of control.
intel: The project was too ambitious and the processor was never able to meet its performance objectives, and it failed in the marketplace.
intel: The N and E now retain a classic feel seen in the original April 1969 logo.
intel: The Japan chapter of Intel proposed an "Intel in it" tagline and kicked off the Japanese campaign by hosting EKI-KON (meaning "Station Concert" in Japanese) at the Tokyo railway station dome on Christmas Day, December 25, 1990.
intel: The Itanium's performance running legacy x86 code did not meet expectations, and it failed to compete effectively with x86-64, which was AMD's 64-bit extension of the 32-bit x86 architecture (Intel uses the name Intel 64, previously EM64T).
intel: It was modified in 1999 to coincide with the launch of the Pentium III, although it overlapped with the 1994 version which was not phased out until 2014.
intel: The investment was structured as a passive ownership with no board representation or governance rights, and included a five-year warrant to purchase up to an additional 5% stake if Intel's ownership of its foundry business falls below 51%.
intel: In January 2015, Intel announced the investment of $300 million over five years to enhance gender and racial diversity in its own company as well as the technology industry as a whole.
intel: Intel employed about 10,000 employees in Israel in 2013.
intel: During this period, Intel undertook two major supporting advertising campaigns.
intel: In February 2011, Intel began to build a new microprocessor manufacturing facility in Chandler, Arizona, completed in 2013 at a cost of $5 billion.
intel: Intel sought conflict-free sources of the precious metals common to electronics from within the country, using a system of first- and third-party audits, as well as input from the Enough Project and other organizations.
intel: Intel has become one of the world's most recognizable computer brands following its long-running Intel Inside campaign.
intel: In the short term, this transition was estimated to have minimal effects on Intel, as Apple only accounted for 2% to 4% of its revenue.
intel: Derived from the Pentium M, the processor family used an enhanced version of the P6 microarchitecture.
intel: It removes the swirl and redesigns the style of the letters to form a refined symmetry, balance, and proportion.
intel: During a sub-committee meeting of the New Mexico Environment Improvement Board, a resident claimed that Intel's own reports documented more than 1,580 pounds (720 kg) of VOCs were released in June and July 2006.
intel: Since the 2000s and especially the late 2010s, Intel has faced increasing competition from AMD, which has led to a decline in its dominance and market share in the PC market.
intel: This was seen as a win for Intel; an analyst called the move "risky" and "foolish", as Intel's current offerings at the time were considered to be behind those of AMD and IBM.
intel: (Numbers, such as 486, cannot be legally registered as trademarks in the United States.) The P6 followed in 1995 as the Pentium Pro and improved into the Pentium II in 1997.
intel: Programmable Solutions Group – 2.4% of 2020 revenues – manufactures programmable semiconductors (primarily FPGAs).
intel: MicroAge had become one of the largest distributors of Compaq, IBM, HP, and others and thus was a primary – although indirect – driver of demand for microprocessors.
intel: Intel wanted MicroAge to petition its computer suppliers to favor Intel chips.
intel: It replaced Comet Lake desktop processors.
intel: The logo often featured Intel's new "Leap Ahead" tagline alongside it.
intel: The second logo, officially introduced on January 3, 2006, was created by FutureBrand.
intel: Ultra would be added to the endings of processors that were in the higher end, such as Core Ultra 7.
intel: Intel reported that it was cooperating with investigators.
intel: This model was deprecated in 2016, with the release of the 7th-generation Core family (codenamed Kaby Lake), ushering in the process–architecture–optimization model.
intel: Yeary (chairman), managing member of Darwin Capital
James Goetz, managing director of Sequoia Capital
Andrea Goldsmith, dean of engineering and applied science at Princeton University
Alyssa Henry, Square, Inc.
intel: By 2009, Intel was using a good–better–best strategy with Celeron being good, Pentium better, and the Intel Core family representing the best the company has to offer.
intel: With this sale and Silver Lake now owning a majority stake, Intel also announced the cancellation of the potential IPO being conducted for Altera.
intel: In December 2016, Intel acquired computer vision startup Movidius for an undisclosed price.
intel: In 1994, Intel sanctioned one of the earliest corporate Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender employee groups, and supports a Muslim employees group, a Jewish employees group, and a Bible-based Christian group.
intel: government price of $20.47 per share was a discount to the $23 per share Softbank paid the prior week.
intel: Intel has been involved in several disputes regarding the violation of antitrust laws, which are noted below.
intel: In June 2015, Intel announced its agreement to purchase FPGA design company Altera for $16.7 billion, in its largest acquisition to date.
intel: Word of the bug spread quickly and reached the industry press.
intel: Maxine Fesberg has been the CEO of Intel Israel since 2007 and the Vice President of Intel Global.
intel: The federal government will not have any controlling interest in the company.
intel: The lawsuit was settled in October 2007, with Intel agreeing to pay US$150 million initially and US$20 million per year for the next five years.
intel: Gelsinger is a former Intel chief technology officer who had previously been head of VMWare.
intel: Tan was CEO of Cadence Design Systems when it unlawfully sold its semiconductor design product to China between 2015 and 2021, and this drew criticism from Tom Cotton, a U.S.
intel: In November 2014, Intel designed a Paddington Bear statue—themed "Little Bear Blue"—, one of fifty statues created by various celebrities and companies which were located around London, England.
intel: It replaced Intel Clear as the font used by the company in most of its branding, however, it is used alongside Intel Clear typeface.
intel: This was because, by using cheaper processors, manufacturers could make cheaper computers and gain more market share in an increasingly price-sensitive market.
intel: The board of directors elected Otellini as president and CEO, and Barrett replaced Grove as Chairman of the Board.
intel: As a result of this, Intel became a target of campaigns to allow free operating systems to include binary firmware on terms acceptable to the open source community.
intel: In May 2026, Intel's investment in SambaNova Systems received clearance from U.S.
intel: In March 2022, Intel stopped supplying the Russian market because of international sanctions during the Russo-Ukrainian War.
intel: Since Intel's microarchitecture and process node development were coupled, processor development stagnated.
intel: Intel has a strong presence in the general-purpose and gaming PC market with its Intel Core line of CPUs and Intel Arc series of GPUs.
intel: These cost reductions followed layoffs announced in the fall of 2022.
intel: This model was deprecated in 2016, with the release of the 7th-generation Core family based on Kaby Lake, ushering in the process–architecture–optimization model.
intel: Tiger Lake was based on the Willow Cove microarchitecture and a refined 10 nm node.
intel: Intel's goal for Ultrabook's price is below $1000; however, according to two presidents from Acer and Compaq, this goal will not be achieved if Intel does not lower the price of its chips.
intel: It designs, manufactures, and sells computer components such as central processing units (CPUs) and related products for business and consumer markets.
intel: Internet of Things Group – 5.2% of 2020 revenues – offers platforms designed for retail, transportation, industrial, buildings and home use.
intel: Moore and Noyce had left Fairchild Semiconductor, where they were part of the "traitorous eight" who founded it.
intel: In some advertisements, the full jingle is played with the embellishment.
intel: Linspire-Linux creator Michael Robertson outlined the difficult position that Intel was in releasing to open source, as Intel did not want to upset its large customer Microsoft.
intel: Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to pay $100 million in penalties resulting from charges that Dell did not accurately disclose accounting information to investors.
intel: In February 2022, Intel agreed to acquire Israeli chip manufacturer Tower Semiconductor for $5.4 billion.
intel: Grove described this transition in the book Only the Paranoid Survive.
intel: In 2006, Intel unveiled its Core microarchitecture; the product range was perceived as an exceptional leap in processor performance that at a stroke regained much of its leadership of the field.
intel: Intel's third employee was Andy Grove, a chemical engineer, who ran the company through much of the 1980s and the high-growth 1990s.
intel: The foundry business was closed in 2018 due to Intel's issues with its manufacturing.
intel: Two years later, Intel became a public company via an initial public offering (IPO), raising $6.8 million ($23.50 per share).
intel: In March 2017, Intel announced it had agreed to purchase Mobileye, an Israeli developer of "autonomous driving" systems for US$15.3 billion.
intel: Despite rumors of the process being cancelled, Intel finally introduced mass-produced 10 nm 10th-generation Intel Core mobile processors (codenamed "Ice Lake") in September 2019.
intel: In February 2015, Intel announced its agreement to purchase German network chipmaker Lantiq, to aid in its expansion of its range of chips in devices with Internet connection capability.
intel: In 2024, Intel was the world's third-largest semiconductor chip manufacturer by revenue.
intel: Intel is part of the coalition of public and private organizations that includes Facebook, Google, and Microsoft.
intel: According to spokesman Bill Calder, Intel has maintained only the Celeron brand, the Atom brand for netbooks and the vPro lineup for businesses.
intel: Hamidi was blocked in a 1999 court decision from using Intel's email system to distribute criticism of the company to employees, which was overturned in 2003 in Intel Corp.
intel: Intel has denied that age plays any role in Intel's employment practices.
intel: Ivy Bridge featured a die shrink to 22 nm, and supported both DDR3 memory and DDR3L chips.
intel: FTC investigations in both the late 1980s and in 1999, and civil actions such as the 1997 suit by Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) and a patent suit by Intergraph.
intel: In July 2013, Intel confirmed the acquisition of Omek Interactive, an Israeli company that makes technology for gesture-based interfaces, without disclosing the monetary value of the deal.
intel: Upside magazine requested data from Intel breaking out its hiring and firing by age, but the company declined to provide any.
intel: In 2024, Intel and Riot Games had an annual sponsorship valued at US$5 million, and one with JD Gaming for US$3.3 million.
intel: Originally developed for the Japanese company Busicom to replace a number of ASICs in a calculator already produced by Busicom, the Intel 4004 was introduced to the mass market on November 15, 1971, though the microprocessor did not become the core of Intel's business until the mid-1980s.
intel: Intel employs significant numbers of people in California, Colorado, Massachusetts, Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Washington and Utah.
intel: Gaede was convicted and sentenced to 33 months in prison in June 1996.
intel: The company's main competitor, AMD, introduced the Zen microarchitecture and a new chiplet-based design to critical acclaim.
intel: The report found that in 2009 "the total economic impacts attributed to Intel's operations, capital spending, contributions and taxes amounted to almost $14.6 billion in activity, including $4.3 billion in personal income and 59,990 jobs".
intel: Intel's market share decreased significantly in the enthusiast market as of 2019, and it faced delays for its 10 nm products.
intel: and Europe.
intel: One design win was the newly created IBM PC division, though the importance of this was not fully realized at the time.
intel: In addition, the company is considered a key component of the rise of Silicon Valley as a high-tech center between the 1970s and 2000s.
intel: The lawsuits were noted to significantly burden the competition with legal bills, even if Intel lost the suits.
intel: Again, it overlapped with the 1999 version and was not mainstreamed until the launch of the Core processors in 2006, with the melody unchanged.
intel: Since over 95% of the world's smartphones currently use processors cores designed by Arm, using the ARM instruction set, Arm has become a major competitor for Intel's processor market.
intel: The 1103 was the bestselling semiconductor memory chip in the world by 1972, as it replaced core memory in many applications.
intel: senator from Arkansas.
intel: Additionally, it featured a stylized version of the new Neo Sans Intel font, a variation of Neo Sans.
intel: In October 2023, Intel announced it would be spinning off PSG into a separate company at the start of 2024, while maintaining majority ownership.
intel: Intel was incorporated in Mountain View, California, on July 18, 1968, by Gordon E.
intel: Intel changed its position and offered to replace every chip, quickly putting in place a large end-user support organization.
intel: Intel has received a 100% rating on numerous Corporate Equality Indices released by the Human Rights Campaign including the first one released in 2002.
intel: On May 18, 2005, Barrett handed the reins of the company over to Paul Otellini, who had been the company president and Chief Operating Officer (COO) and who was responsible for Intel's design win in the original IBM PC.
intel: At its peak in the mid-1990s, Intel manufactured over 15% of all PCs, making it the third-largest supplier at the time.
intel: Advertisements for products featuring Intel processors with prominent MMX branding featured a version of the jingle with a shortened first note and an embellishment (shining sound) after the final note in conjunction with the MMX label fading in.
intel: The idea for "Intel Inside" came out of a meeting between Intel and one of the major computer resellers, MicroAge.
intel: In October 2011, Intel started to sell its Core i7-2700K "Sandy Bridge" chip to customers worldwide.
intel: A group called FACE Intel (Former and Current Employees of Intel) claims that Intel weeds out older employees.
intel: On June 22, 2020, during Apple's annual WWDC, Tim Cook, Apple's CEO, announced that it would be transitioning the company's entire Mac line from Intel CPUs to custom Apple-designed processors based on the ARM architecture over the course of the next two years.
intel: On May 2, 2013, Executive Vice President and COO Brian Krzanich was elected as Intel's sixth CEO, a selection that became effective on May 16, 2013, at the company's annual meeting.
intel: In April 2024, Intel reached a definitive agreement to sell 51% of Altera to Silver Lake.
intel: To make the test easier to monitor, Mion decided to do the test in Boulder, Colorado, where it had a single store.
intel: During this period, it became the dominant supplier of CPUs, and was known for aggressive and anti-competitive tactics in defense of its position, as well as tensions with Microsoft over the PC industry's direction.
intel: Intel was sued in 1993 by nine former employees, over allegations that they were laid off because they were over the age of 40.
intel: Ice Lake, based on the Sunny Cove microarchitecture, was produced on the 10 nm process and was limited to low-power mobile processors.
intel: Intel's strategy to this is computer-centric, solutions-based and an end-to-end one spanning the car to the datacenter.
intel: executive
Omar Ishrak, chairman and former CEO of Medtronic
Risa Lavizzo-Mourey, former president and CEO of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Tsu-Jae King Liu, professor at the UC Berkeley College of Engineering
Barbara G.
intel: Intel planned to introduce Medfield – a processor for tablets and smartphones – to the market in 2012, as an effort to compete with Arm.
intel: In 2008, Intel began shipping mainstream solid-state drives (SSDs) with up to 160 GB storage capacities.
intel: An official statement from Intel read: "The acquisition of Omek Interactive will help increase Intel's capabilities in the delivery of more immersive perceptual computing experiences." One report estimated the value of the acquisition between US$30 million and $50 million.
intel: During the 1990s, Intel Architecture Labs (IAL) was responsible for many of the hardware innovations for the PC, including the PCI Bus, the PCI Express (PCIe) bus, and Universal Serial Bus (USB).
intel: By November 2020, Apple unveiled the M1, its processor custom-designed for the Mac.
intel: Dovetailing with an uptick in the "Intel Inside" campaign, the episode is considered to have been a positive event for Intel, changing some of its business practices to be more end-user focused and generating substantial public awareness, while avoiding a lasting negative impression.
intel: "Intel Inside" has not escaped that tendency and there are other "explanations".
intel: In August 2022, Intel signed a $30 billion partnership with Brookfield Asset Management to fund its then-recent factory expansions.
intel: In December 2014, Intel bought PasswordBox.
intel: To avoid a trial, Intel agreed to comply with the order.
intel: In March 2011, Intel bought most of the assets of Cairo-based SySDSoft.
intel: The Intel swirl logo was the work of DahlinSmithWhite art director Steve Grigg under the direction of Intel president and CEO Andy Grove.
intel: Intel required that a minimum of 35% of the money it provided to the companies in its co-op program be used for online marketing.
intel: On July 22, 2010, Dell agreed to a settlement with the U.S.
intel: The announcement was made a day after it reported earnings that missed analyst targets.
intel: In 1982, Intel created the 80286 microprocessor, which, two years later, was used in the IBM PC/AT.
intel: In October 2015, Intel bought cognitive computing company Saffron Technology for an undisclosed price.
intel: In 2014, the typeface was changed to Intel Clear, created by Red Peak Branding and Dalton Maag.
intel: The company risked a penalty of up to 3% of its annual sales if found guilty.
intel: The company first delayed the mass production of its 10 nm products to 2017.
intel: The dot on the I is the new visual identity and represents the potential and power of their processor.
intel: In the U.S.
intel: The company is the largest industrial employer in New Mexico while in Arizona the company has 12,000 employees as of January 2020.
intel: In June 2008, the EU filed new charges against Intel.
intel: In August 2016, Intel purchased deep-learning startup Nervana Systems for over $400 million.
intel: He contacted Intel but received no response.
intel: In September 2020, 11th-generation Core mobile processors, codenamed Tiger Lake, were launched.
intel: The Hillsboro team designed the Willamette processors (initially code-named P68), which were marketed as the Pentium 4.
intel: David Zinsner and Michelle Johnston Holthaus were named as interim co-CEOs.
intel: On August 11, 2025, Tan met with President Trump and U.S.
intel: During a keynote address at the Consumer Electronics Show 2014, Intel CEO at the time, Brian Krzanich, announced that the company's microprocessors would henceforth be conflict free.
intel: The purchase price was not disclosed, but Israeli media reported values around $300 million to $350 million.
intel: On March 13, 2025, it was announced that he would be formally replaced by American Lip-Bu Tan starting March 18, 2025.
intel: A case study, "Inside Intel Inside", was put together by Harvard Business School.
intel: It was one of the first companies listed on Nasdaq.
intel: In April 2016, Intel cancelled the SoFIA platform and the Broxton Atom SoC for smartphones, effectively leaving the smartphone market.
intel: It brings simplicity and unification to the look of many of Intel's products.
intel: In the early 2000s, then-CEO, Craig Barrett attempted to diversify the company's business beyond semiconductors, but few of these activities were ultimately successful.
intel: TSMC, Foxconn and Samsung), as AMD and Nvidia do.
intel: During Thanksgiving, in 1994, The New York Times ran a piece by journalist John Markoff spotlighting the error.
intel: In September 2025, Intel sold the majority stake to Silver Lake and retained a 49% passive stake.
intel: Lip-Bu Tan, executive chairman of Cadence Design Systems
intel: In November 2021, Intel recruited some of the employees of the Centaur Technology division from VIA Technologies, a deal worth $125 million, and effectively acquiring the talent and know-how of its x86 division.
intel: Since its introduction, AMD, once unable to compete with Intel in the high-end CPU market, has undergone a resurgence, and Intel's dominance and market share have considerably decreased.
intel: The first Intel logo, introduced in April 1969 and created by Robert Noyce and Gordon Moore, featured the company's name stylized in all lowercase with the Helvetica font in a cool blue color.
intel: Intel would pay for a MicroAge billboard somewhere saying, "If you're buying a personal computer, make sure it has Intel inside." In turn, MicroAge would put "Intel Inside" stickers on the Intel-based computers in their stores in that area.
intel: However, after the release of the wireless products called Intel Pro/Wireless 2100, 2200BG/2225BG/2915ABG and 3945ABG in 2005, Intel was criticized for not granting free redistribution rights for the firmware that must be included in the operating system for the wireless devices to operate.
intel: employees was reported as 75.2% men and 24.8% women.
intel: Binary firmware files for non-wireless Ethernet devices were also released under a BSD licence allowing free redistribution.
intel: In 1989, Intel's Dennis Carter visited MicroAge's headquarters in Tempe, Arizona, to meet with MicroAge's VP of Marketing, Ron Mion.
intel: The male-female mix of U.S.
intel: In January 2022, Intel selected New Albany, Ohio, near Columbus, Ohio, as the site for a major new manufacturing facility.
intel: As is often the case with computer lore, other tidbits have been combined to explain how things evolved.
intel: Despite the ultimate importance of the microprocessor, the 4004 and its successors the 8008 and the 8080 were never major revenue contributors at Intel.
intel: Previously, Intel had appealed the demand in the Karnataka high court in July, during which the court ordered Intel to pay BBMP half the owed amount of ₹170 million (US$1.8 million) plus arrears by August 28 of that year.
intel: This generation featured an 11% performance increase over Nehalem.
intel: The competition between Intel and Microsoft was revealed in testimony by then IAL Vice-president Steven McGeady at the Microsoft antitrust trial (United States v.
intel: In 2008, Intel planned to shift the emphasis of its Intel Inside campaign from traditional media such as television and print to newer media such as the Internet.
intel: The Intel 2010 annual financial report indicated that $1.8 billion (6% of the gross margin and nearly 16% of the total net income) was allocated to all advertising with Intel Inside being part of that.
intel: However, registration was refused for the underlying musical composition, a perfect octave followed by a four-note sequence, as it was below the threshold of originality.
intel: They phased out the Pentium names from mobile processors first, when the new Yonah chips, branded Core Solo and Core Duo, were released.
intel: In July 2022, Intel disclosed in its Q2 earnings report that it would cease future product development within its Optane business, which in turn effectively discontinued the development of 3D XPoint as a whole.
intel: government stake (2025) ===
In August 2025, the United States government purchased 433.3 million Intel shares at $20.47 per share, equivalent to a 9.9% stake.
intel: The company was a key component of the rise of Silicon Valley as a high-tech center, and was an early developer of static (SRAM) and dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) chips, which represented the majority of its business until 1981.
intel: The company also had a sponsorship with Global Esports.
intel: Despite this boost resulting in a positive outlook in the last quarter of 2025, Intel shares dove more than 10% on 22 January 2026.
intel: The Intel Core line originated from the original Core brand, with the release of the 32-bit Yonah CPU, Intel's first dual-core mobile (low-power) processor.
intel: In 1992, the name was changed to the Intel Supercomputing Systems Division, and development of the iWarp architecture was also subsumed.
intel: The growing success of the IBM personal computer, based on an Intel microprocessor, was among factors that convinced Gordon Moore (CEO since 1975) to shift the company's focus to microprocessors and to change fundamental aspects of that business model.
intel: In addition, Intel's 10 nm process is more dense than its counterpart processes from other foundries.
intel: In 2021, Intel reversed course under new CEO Pat Gelsinger and started hiring thousands of engineers.
intel: The Intel Inside advertising campaign sought public brand loyalty and awareness of Intel processors in consumer computers.
intel: Brookfield owns the remaining 49% stake, allowing the companies to split the revenue from those facilities.
intel: The only other major competitor in processor instruction sets is RISC-V, which is an open source CPU instruction set.
intel: In January 2015, Intel purchased a 30% stake in Vuzix, a smart glasses manufacturer.
intel: As of May 2013, Intel's board of directors consisted of Andy Bryant, John Donahoe, Frank Yeary, Ambassador Charlene Barshefsky, Susan Decker, Reed Hundt, Paul Otellini, James Plummer, David Pottruck, and David Yoffie and Creative director will.i.am.
intel: Intel struggled to shrink its process node from 14 nm to 10 nm, with the first microarchitecture under that node, Cannon Lake (marketed as 8th-generation Core), only being released in small quantities in 2018.
intel: In the same year, Intel also produced the 3301 Schottky bipolar 1024-bit read-only memory (ROM) and the first commercial metal–oxide–semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) silicon gate SRAM chip, the 256-bit 1101.
intel: In a letter to Intel employees, Tan said that he has "always operated within the highest legal and ethical standards".
intel: In July, it was reported that Intel would be cutting 5,000 jobs across California, Oregon, Arizona, and Texas.
intel: The three-transistor cell implemented in the first commercially available dynamic random-access memory (DRAM), the 1103 released in 1970, solved these issues.
intel: Under Tan, Intel has engaged in a significant restructuring aimed at shrinking the company and refocusing on core businesses.
intel: Mion felt that the public did not really need to fully understand why Intel chips were better, they just needed to feel they were better.
intel: Created prior to the release of the film Paddington, the Intel-designed statue was located outside Framestore in Chancery Lane, London, a British visual-effects company which uses Intel technology for films including Paddington.
intel: In addition to the fine, Intel was ordered by the commission to immediately cease all illegal practices.
intel: Intel agreed to sell the XScale processor business to Marvell Technology Group for an estimated $600 million and the assumption of unspecified liabilities.
intel: In 2017, the United States Copyright Office registered a copyright claim to the 1994 sound recording of the "Intel Spiral", as it "contained a perceptible and sufficient amount of creative production authorship".
intel: In 2014, the Intel Inside branding was changed to reflect the new Intel Clear font.
intel: Grove made the decision not to license the 386 design to other manufacturers, instead, producing it in three geographically distinct factories: Santa Clara, California; Hillsboro, Oregon; and Chandler, a suburb of Phoenix, Arizona.
intel: VIA retained the x86 licence and associated patents, and its Zhaoxin CPU joint-venture continues.
intel: The bug was discovered independently in October 1994 by Thomas Nicely, Professor of Mathematics at Lynchburg College.
intel: On December 1, 2024, Pat Gelsinger retired from the position of Intel CEO and stepped down from the company's board of directors.
intel: After his departure, Intel appointed David Zinsner and Michelle Johnston Holthaus interim co-CEOs while searching for a permanent successor.
intel: In August 2024, after posting $1.6 billion in losses for Q2, Intel announced that it would cut 15,000 jobs to save $10 billion in 2025.
intel: antitrust authorities, removing a key regulatory hurdle for the deal.
intel: Bill Gaede, an Argentine formerly employed both at AMD and at Intel's Arizona plant, was arrested for attempting in 1993 to sell the i486 and P5 Pentium designs to AMD and to certain foreign powers.
intel: Intel's branding campaign started with "The Computer Inside" tagline in 1990 in the U.S.
intel: The acquisition completed in December 2015.
intel: The company is also one of the first in the sector to research consumer acceptance, after an American Automobile Association report quoted a 78% nonacceptance rate of the technology in the U.S.
intel: In May 2022, Intel announced it had acquired Finnish graphics technology firm Siru innovations.
intel: On January 31, 2023, as part of $3 billion in cost reductions, Intel announced pay cuts affecting employees above midlevel, ranging from 5% upwards.
intel: However, at the time it was believed that Apple's shift to its own chips might prompt other PC manufacturers to reassess their reliance on Intel and the x86 architecture.
intel: Instead, they founded the company as NM Electronics on July 18, 1968, but by the end of the month had changed the name to Intel, which stood for Integrated Electronics.
intel: Intel paid some of the advertiser's costs for an ad that used the Intel Inside logo and xylo-marimba jingle.
intel: It has the letter "e" dropped below the other letters, connecting the T and L, making it seem as if the E had "fallen" from the line.
intel: In addition, the company is frequently named one of the 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers by Working Mother magazine.
intel: Intel also announced plans to scrap tens of billions of dollars of planned investments in new chip facilities in Europe.
intel: In the same month, Intel announced its plan to take Mobileye automotive unit public via an IPO of newly issued stock in 2022, maintaining its majority ownership of the company.
intel: In 1998, Grove succeeded Moore as chairman, and Craig Barrett, already company president, took over.
intel: Both desktop and mobile products were unified under a single process node with the release of 12th-generation Intel Core processors (codenamed "Alder Lake") in late 2021.
intel: On November 1, 2024, it was announced that Intel would drop out of the Dow Jones Industrial Average on November 8 prior to the stock market open, with Nvidia taking its place.
intel: So Mion proposed a market test.
intel: In 2011, the Israeli government offered Intel $290 million to expand in the country.
intel: Since late 2009, Intel's mainstream processors have been called Celeron, Pentium, Core i3, Core i5, Core i7, and Core i9 in order of performance from lowest to highest.
intel: In 2014, Intel dismissed thousands of employees in response to "evolving market trends", and offered to subsidize manufacturers for the extra costs involved in using Intel chips in their tablets.
intel: In April 2026, Intel announced a $14.2 billion agreement to repurchase the 49% equity interest in its facility in Ireland from Apollo Global Management, reclaiming full ownership of the site as part of a broader stabilization of its capital structure.
intel: These SSDs make use of industry standards such as NAND flash, mSATA, PCIe, and NVMe.
intel: The new investment would expand the operations of its Malaysian subsidiary across Penang and Kulim, creating more than 4,000 new Intel jobs and more than 5,000 local construction jobs.
intel: As of the third quarter of 2025, Intel retained a majority share of the server CPU market at 63.3%, with AMD at 36.5%.
intel: To mitigate this risk, these customers typically insisted that multiple manufacturers (second sources) produce chips they could use to ensure a consistent supply.
intel: In March 2014, it was reported that Intel would embark upon a $6 billion plan to expand its activities in Israel.
intel: FACE Intel claims that more than 90% of people who have been laid off or fired from Intel are over the age of 40.
intel: Intel said they would appeal the commission's verdict.
intel: As a condition for regulatory approval of the transaction, Intel agreed to provide rival security firms with all necessary information that would allow their products to use Intel's chips and personal computers.
intel: In a rebuttal, Intel deconstructed AMD's offensive strategy and argued that AMD struggled largely as a result of its own bad business decisions, including underinvestment in essential manufacturing capacity and excessive reliance on contracting to chip foundries.
intel: The majority of Indisys employees joined Intel.
intel: The 1st-generation Core products carry a 3 digit name, such as i5-750, the 2nd-generation products carry a 4 digit name, such as the i5-2500, and from 10th generation onwards, Intel processors have a 5 digit name, such as i9-10900K for desktop.
intel: The first attempt was dropped a year later but quickly revived in a cooperative program with Hewlett-Packard engineers, though Intel soon took over primary design responsibility.
intel: This campaign established Intel, which had been a component supplier little-known outside the PC industry, as a household name.
intel: Prior to this, microprocessor manufacturing was in its infancy, and manufacturing problems frequently reduced or stopped production, interrupting supplies to customers.
intel: As a 32-nanometer processor, Medfield is designed to be energy-efficient, one of Arm's chips' core features.
intel: Both companies agreed to drop lawsuits against each other, while Intel was granted a perpetual non-exclusive license to use current and future patented Transmeta technologies in its chips for 10 years.
intel: In February 2016, Intel released its Global Diversity & Inclusion 2015 Annual Report.
intel: In deciding on a name, Moore and Noyce quickly rejected "Moore Noyce", a near-homophone for "more noise" – an ill-suited name for an electronics company, since noise in electronics is usually undesirable and typically associated with bad interference.
intel: In September 2024, Intel reportedly qualified for as much as $3.5 billion in federal grants to make semiconductors for the Defense Department.
intel: During a six-month transition period, Intel's board of directors commenced a search process for the next CEO, in which it considered both internal managers and external candidates such as Sanjay Jha and Patrick Gelsinger.
intel: This was seen as a win for Intel, although an analyst called the move "risky" and "foolish", as Intel's current offerings at the time were considered to be behind those of AMD and IBM.
intel: Several other customers also exist but were not announced at the time.
intel: During the 1990s, the partnership between Microsoft Windows and Intel—known as Wintel—shaped the PC market, solidifying Intel's position.
intel: Department of Defense is another large customer for Intel.
intel: On November 4, 2009, New York's attorney general filed an antitrust lawsuit against Intel Corporation, claiming the company used "illegal threats and collusion" to dominate the market for computer microprocessors.
intel: In 2021, SK Hynix acquired most of Intel's NAND memory business for $7 billion, with a remaining transaction worth $2 billion expected in 2025.
intel: For example, products such as Core i7, would be called Core 7.
intel: The Apple Xserve server was updated to Intel Xeon processors from November 2006 and was offered in a configuration similar to Apple's Mac Pro.
intel: In May 2012, Intel vice chairman Andy Bryant, who had held the posts of Chief Financial Officer (CFO) (1994) and Chief Administrative Officer (2007) at Intel, succeeded Shaw as executive chairman.
intel: The "Pentium flaw" incident, Intel's response to it, and the surrounding media coverage propelled Intel from being a technology supplier generally unknown to most computer users to a household name.
intel: Intel responded that the allegations were unfounded and instead qualified its market behavior as consumer-friendly.
intel: Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent at the White House.
intel: The division designed several supercomputer systems, including the Intel iPSC/1, iPSC/2, iPSC/860, Paragon and ASCI Red.
intel: Intel also introduced a new naming scheme, with the three variants now named Core i3, i5, and i7 (as well as i9 from the 7th generation onwards).
intel: In October 2011, Intel reached a deal to acquire Telmap, an Israeli-based navigation software company.
intel: The Alliance for Affordable Internet (A4AI) was launched in October 2013.
intel: Considerable technological innovation was needed before the microprocessor could become the basis of what was first known as a "mini computer" and then a "personal computer".
intel: The second campaign, Intel's Systems Group, which began in the early 1990s, showcased manufacturing of PC motherboards, the main board component of a personal computer, and the one into which the processor (CPU) and memory (RAM) chips are plugged.
intel: Grove stepped down as chairman but is retained as a special adviser.
intel: Images of the new brand identity had begun circulating online earlier in November 2005, originally by a French site known as x86-Secret.
intel: The European Commission said that Intel had deliberately acted to keep competitors out of the computer chip market and in doing so had made a "serious and sustained violation of the EU's antitrust rules".
intel: On October 30, he posted a message about his finding on the Internet.
intel: In its 2012 rankings on the progress of consumer electronics companies relating to conflict minerals, the Enough Project rated Intel the best of 24 companies, calling it a "Pioneer of progress".
intel: Gelsinger's resignation, effective December 1, followed a board meeting where directors expressed dissatisfaction with the slow progress of his turnaround strategy.
intel: Instead of focusing on higher clock rates, the Core microarchitecture emphasized power efficiency and a return to lower clock speeds.
intel: From 2016 until 2021, Intel later released more optimizations on the Skylake microarchitecture with Kaby Lake R, Amber Lake, Whiskey Lake, Coffee Lake, Coffee Lake R, and Comet Lake.
intel: Only Achronix began shipping chips made by Intel using the 22 nm Tri-Gate process.
intel: Previously, Intel used Helvetica as its standard typeface in corporate marketing.
intel: In November 2014, Intel stated that it was planning to use optical fibers to improve networking within supercomputers.
intel: On June 4, 2024, Intel announced AI chips for data centers, the Xeon 6 processor, aiming for better performance and power efficiency compared to its predecessor.
intel: The move was intended to permit Intel to focus its resources on its core x86 and server businesses, and the acquisition completed on November 9, 2006.
intel: Consequently, many users did not accept Intel's statements that the error was minor and "not even an erratum".
intel: On June 21, 2018, Intel announced the resignation of Brian Krzanich as CEO, with the exposure of a relationship he had with an employee.
intel: Outside the United States, the company has facilities in China, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Israel, Ireland, India, Russia, Argentina and Vietnam, in 63 countries and regions internationally.
intel: On November 12, 2009, AMD agreed to drop the antitrust lawsuit against Intel in exchange for $1.25 billion.
intel: AMD subsequently launched a website promoting these allegations.
intel: Intel was founded in 1968 by engineers Gordon Moore and Robert Noyce, along with investor Arthur Rock, and is associated with the executive leadership and vision of Andrew Grove.
intel: As with its CPUs, Intel develops SSD chips using ever-smaller nanometer processes.
intel: Intel supplies microprocessors for most manufacturers of computer systems, and is one of the developers of the x86 series of instruction sets found in most personal computers (PCs).
intel: Gelsinger's exit underscored the turmoil at Intel as it grappled with its identity crisis and sought to regain its semiconductor industry position.
intel: Moore handed over his position as CEO to Andy Grove in 1987.
intel: In 2008, Intel spun off key assets of a solar startup business effort to form an independent company, SpectraWatt Incorporated.
intel: In addition, Apple began to transition away from the x86 architecture and Intel processors to its own Apple silicon for its Macintosh computers in 2020.
intel: The transition is expected to affect Intel minimally; however, it might prompt other PC manufacturers to reevaluate their reliance on Intel and the x86 architecture.
intel: In September 2025, Nvidia invested $5 billion in Intel as part of a partnership to jointly develop data-center and personal-computing CPUs.
intel: The initial branding agency for the "Intel Inside" campaign was DahlinSmithWhite Advertising of Salt Lake City.
intel: In 2013, Intel's Kirk Skaugen said that Intel's exclusive focus on Microsoft platforms was a thing of the past and that it would now support all "tier-one operating systems" such as Linux, Android, iOS, and ChromeOS.
intel: As of 2023, Intel has a 68.4% market share in the x86 market.
intel: Moore's decision to sole-source Intel's model 80386 chip played into the company's continuing success.
intel: The commission ordered Intel to eliminate discounts that had discriminated against AMD.
intel: The "Intel Processor" branding would replace the Pentium and Celeron naming schemes starting in 2023.
intel: The first microprocessor under that node, Cannon Lake (marketed as 8th-generation Core), was released in small quantities in 2018.
intel: In September 2016, Intel sold a majority stake in its computer-security unit to TPG Capital, reversing the five-year-old McAfee acquisition.
intel: While the 1101 was a significant advance, its complex static cell structure made it too slow and costly for mainframe computer memories.
intel: Unlike Intel Custom Foundry, IFS will offer a combination of packaging and process technology, and Intel's intellectual property portfolio including x86 cores.
intel: According to former Intel CEO Bob Swan, the delay was caused by the company's overly aggressive strategy for moving to its next node.
intel: The company used to be included on the EE Times list of 60 Emerging Startups.
intel: Legal analysts predicted the lawsuit would drag on for a number of years, since Intel's initial response indicated its unwillingness to settle with AMD.
intel: Competitors, most notably AMD (Intel's largest competitor in its primary x86 architecture market), garnered significant market share, initially in low-end and mid-range processors but ultimately across the product range.
intel: The only major competitor in the x86 processor market is AMD, with which Intel has had full cross-licensing agreements since 1976: each partner can use the other's patented technological innovations without charge after a certain time.
intel: Theo de Raadt of OpenBSD also claimed that Intel is being "an Open Source fraud" after an Intel employee presented a distorted view of the situation at an open source conference.
intel: The jingle was remade a second time in 2004 to coincide with the new logo change.
intel: While other foundries used up to four steps in 10 nm or 7 nm processes, the company's 10 nm process required up to five or six multi-pattern steps.
intel: Despite Apple's use of Intel products, relations between the two companies were strained at times.
intel: Gelsinger also confirmed that Intel's 7 nm process was on track, and that the first products using their 7 nm process (also known as Intel 4) are Ponte Vecchio and Meteor Lake.
intel: However, the cross-licensing agreement is canceled in the event of an AMD bankruptcy or takeover.
intel: Google would help lower Internet access prices to below the UN Broadband Commission's worldwide target of 5% of monthly income.
intel: Of perhaps greater importance was his decision to "single-source" the 386 microprocessor.
intel: Under certain data-dependent conditions, the low-order bits of the result of a floating-point division would be incorrect.
intel: NPR reported that Intel was facing a retention problem (particularly for African Americans), not just a pipeline problem.
intel: When the PC industry boomed in the late 1980s and 1990s, Intel was one of the primary beneficiaries.
intel: Intel later released 11th-generation Core desktop processors (codenamed "Rocket Lake"), fabricated using Intel's 14 nm process and based on the Cypress Cove microarchitecture, on March 30, 2021.
intel: In 2016, Intel stated that it had expected its entire supply chain to be conflict-free by the end of the year.
intel: vPro products will carry the Intel Core i7 vPro processor or the Intel Core i5 vPro processor name.
intel: The building is now the 10 nm-certified Fab 42 and is connected to the other Fabs (12, 22, 32) on Ocotillo Campus via an enclosed bridge known as the Link.
intel: The bug was easy to replicate; a user could enter specific numbers into the calculator on the operating system.
intel: government a 9.9% equity stake in exchange for CHIPS Act funding previously allocated during the Biden administration.
intel: One of the key architects of the marketing team was the head of the microprocessor division, David House who coined the slogan "Intel Inside".
intel: Aside from high-end server systems and software, whose demand dropped with the end of the "dot-com bubble", consumer systems ran effectively on increasingly low-cost systems after 2000.
intel: Since "Intel" was already trademarked by the hotel chain Intelco, it had to buy the rights for the name.
intel: Throughout its history, Intel has had three distinctive logos.
intel: In 2014, chief executive Brian Krzanich urged the rest of the industry to follow Intel's lead by also shunning conflict minerals.
intel: In December 2016, Fesberg announced her resignation, her position of chief executive officer (CEO) has been filled by Yaniv Gerti since January 2017.
intel: In May 2022, it was announced that Ericsson and Intel had pooled to launch a tech hub in California to focus on the research and development of cloud RAN technology.
intel: As of July 2013, five companies were using Intel's fabs via the Intel Custom Foundry division: Achronix, Tabula, Netronome, Microsemi, and Panasonic – most are field-programmable gate array (FPGA) makers, but Netronome designs network processors.
intel: The P5 project was earlier known as "Operation Bicycle", referring to the cycles of the processor through two parallel execution pipelines.
intel: In 2017, Intel became a sponsor of the Olympic Games, lasting from the 2018 Winter Olympics to the 2024 Summer Olympics.
intel: However, increased competition from Japanese semiconductor manufacturers had, by 1983, dramatically reduced the profitability of this market.
intel: As a condition, Intel would employ 1,500 more workers in Kiryat Gat and between 600 and 1000 workers in the north.
intel: The investigation began in February 2006, when officials raided Intel's South Korean offices.
intel: In June 1994, Intel engineers discovered a flaw in the floating-point math subsection of the P5 Pentium microprocessor.
intel: Arm is also planning to make attempts at entering the PC and server market, with Ampere and IBM each individually designing CPUs for servers and supercomputers.
intel: In January 2012, Google announced Android 2.3, supporting Intel's Atom microprocessor.
intel: Profits from this funded rapid development of both higher-performance chip designs and higher-performance manufacturing capabilities, propelling Intel to a position of unquestioned leadership by the early 1990s.
intel: Microsoft Corp.).
intel: This, in turn, lowered the profitability of the processor line and ended an era of unprecedented dominance of PC hardware by Intel.
intel: Intel corrected the error in a future chip revision, and under public pressure it issued a total recall and replaced the defective Pentium CPUs (which were limited to some 60, 66, 75, 90, and 100 MHz models) on customer request.
intel: Although Intel created the world's first commercial microprocessor chip—the Intel 4004—in 1971, it was not until the success of the PC in the early 1980s that this became its primary business.
intel: The same year Intel also chose Magdeburg, Germany, as a site for two new chip mega factories for €17 billion (topping Tesla's Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg manufacturing plant investment in Brandenburg, Germany).
intel: The attention caused Intel shares to drop more than 3% during intra-day trading.
intel: Andy Grove retired at 62, while both Robert Noyce and Gordon Moore retired at 58.
intel: The facility will cost at least $20 billion.
intel: Intel faced a fine of up to 10% of its annual revenue if found guilty of stifling competition.
intel: Intel's dominance in the x86 microprocessor market led to numerous charges of antitrust violations over the years, including U.S.
intel: The plan called for continued investment in existing and new Intel plants until 2030.
intel: The ultrabook is defined as a thin (less than 0.8 inches [~2 cm] thick) notebook that utilizes Intel processors and also incorporates tablet features such as a touch screen and long battery life.
intel: Reportedly, the board concluded that an insider could proceed with the role and exert an impact more quickly, without the need to learn Intel's processes, and Krzanich was selected on such a basis.
intel: The logo is known as the "dropped-e" logo.
intel: Intel later acknowledged that the strategy to shrink to 10 nm was too aggressive.
intel: It also provided more efficient decoding stages, execution units, caches, and buses, reducing the power consumption of Core 2-branded CPUs while increasing their processing capacity.
intel: Antitrust allegations had been simmering since the early 1990s and had been the cause of one lawsuit against Intel in 1991.
intel: Intel's environmental performance is published annually in its corporate responsibility report.
intel: It is stated as the "only symbol Intel needs."
intel: Intel included only 10 people in this study, which makes the study less credible.
intel: The font family was designed by Red Peek Branding and Dalton Maag.
intel: The statues were then auctioned to raise funds for the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC).
intel: It also suspended bonuses and merit pay increases, reducing retirement plan matching.
intel: An alternate 1999 version can be heard in Pentium III M advertisements.
intel: Since the 2000s and especially the late 2010s, competition from AMD has reduced Intel's dominance and market share, though it continues to lead the x86 market in the 2020s by a wide margin.
intel: Some smaller competitors, such as VIA Technologies, produce low-power x86 processors for small factor computers and portable equipment.
intel: In 2008, Intel had another advance when it introduced the Penryn microarchitecture, fabricated using the 45 nm process node.
intel: Intel's counterargument was that it would be too difficult to educate PC buyers on why Intel microprocessors were worth paying more for.
intel: Intel's dominant position in its core market was greatly reduced, mostly due to the controversial NetBurst microarchitecture.
intel: The microprocessor represented a notable advance in the technology of integrated circuitry, as it miniaturized the central processing unit of a computer, which then made it possible for small machines to perform calculations that in the past only very large machines could do.
intel: In 2019, Intel released Agilex FPGAs: chips aimed at data centers, 5G applications, and other uses.
intel: This partnership would become instrumental in shaping the PC landscape, and solidified Intel's position on the market.
intel: Initially available in Latin, Greek and Cyrillic scripts, it replaced Neo Sans Intel as the company's corporate typeface.
intel: The logo combines elements of both the previous logo and the Intel Inside campaign while also modernizing it.
intel: The refreshed logo also signals where the company was headed at that time.
intel: Rumors of Apple switching from Intel processors to its own designs began circulating as early as 2011.
intel: Intel Clear Hebrew, Intel Clear Arabic were added by Dalton Maag Ltd.
intel: This resulted in a $475 million charge against Intel's 1994 revenue.
intel: In 2011, SpectraWatt filed for bankruptcy.
intel: Gaede videotaped data from his computer screen at Intel and mailed it to AMD, which immediately alerted Intel and authorities, resulting in Gaede's arrest.
intel: Shortly after, Intel began manufacturing fully configured "white box" systems for the dozens of PC clone companies that rapidly sprang up.
intel: Intel released FreeBSD drivers for some networking cards, available under a BSD-compatible license, which were also ported to OpenBSD.
intel: The error could compound in subsequent calculations.
intel: In May 2009, the EU found that Intel had engaged in anti-competitive practices and subsequently fined Intel €1.06 billion (US$1.44 billion), a record amount.
intel: The site was expected to cost $25 billion, with $3.2 billion provided by the Israeli government in the form of a grant.
intel: By tying funding to U.S.
intel: Another remake of the jingle debuted with Intel's new visual identity.
intel: By launching its Intel Inside marketing campaign in 1991, Intel was able to associate brand loyalty with consumer selection, so that by the end of the 1990s, its line of Pentium processors had become a household name.
intel: In July 2011, Intel announced that it had agreed to acquire Fulcrum Microsystems Incorporated, a company specializing in network switches.
intel: Led by Tim Berners-Lee, the A4AI sought to make Internet access more affordable to broaden access in the developing world, where only 31% of people were online.
intel: The 8080 and 8086-series microprocessors were produced by several companies, notably AMD, with which Intel had a technology-sharing contract.
intel: At the Intel Developers Forum in 2011, four Taiwan ODMs showed prototype ultrabooks that used Intel's Ivy Bridge chips.
intel: Including subcontractors, this was expected to create 10,000 new jobs.
intel: In June 2008, the U.S.
intel: In 2023, Intel announced it would be dropping the 'i' in its future processor markings.
intel: The first campaign, the 1991 "Intel Inside" marketing and branding campaign, was widely known and became synonymous with Intel itself.
intel: On March 13, 2025, Intel announced the appointment of Lip-Bu Tan as its new CEO, effective March 18, after four months of interim co-CEOs.
intel: It was succeeded by Ivy Bridge-based 3rd-generation Core, introduced at the 2012 Intel Developer Forum.
intel: Intel also runs the LessWatts.org campaigns.
intel: Prior to March 2021, Intel had a mandatory retirement policy for its CEOs when they reach age 65.
intel: In May 2009, Barrett stepped down as chairman of the board and was succeeded by Jane Shaw.
intel: New architectures were developed alternately in Santa Clara, California, and Hillsboro, Oregon.
intel: In December 2009, the FTC announced it would initiate an administrative proceeding against Intel in September 2010.
intel: This was after poor sales of Windows 8 hardware caused a major retrenchment for most of the major semiconductor manufacturers, except for Qualcomm, which continued to see healthy purchases from its largest customer, Apple.
intel: Intel's ability to design and manufacture its own chips is considered a rarity in the semiconductor industry, as most chip designers do not have their own production facilities and instead rely on contract manufacturers (e.g.
intel: It also manufactures chipsets, network interface controllers, flash memory, graphics processing units (GPUs), and other devices related to communications and computing.
intel: Moore, a chemist; Robert Noyce, a physicist and co-inventor of the integrated circuit; and Arthur Rock, an investor and venture capitalist.
intel: Concurrently, Intel engineers Marcian Hoff, Federico Faggin, Stanley Mazor, and Masatoshi Shima invented Intel's first microprocessor.
intel: Since 2010, "Centrino" is only being applied to Intel's WiMAX and Wi-Fi technologies.
intel: Intel's competitors in networking include NXP Semiconductors, Infineon, Broadcom Limited, Marvell Technology Group and Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, and competitors in flash memory included Spansion, Samsung Electronics, Qimonda, Kioxia, STMicroelectronics, Micron, SK Hynix, and IBM.
intel: It also spun off its artificial intelligence robotics and biometric company, RealSense as a separate entity.
intel: In January 2019, Intel announced an investment of over $11 billion on a new Israeli chip plant, as told by the Israeli Finance Minister.
intel: In Oregon, Intel is the state's largest private employer.
intel: accounted for 10% of total revenues.
intel: It was subsequently taken down by Intel's legal team but reuploaded later by Taiwanese site DigiTimes.
intel: In 1975, the company had started a project to develop a highly advanced 32-bit microprocessor, finally released in 1981 as the Intel iAPX 432.
intel: In January 2014, it was reported that Intel would cut about 5,000 jobs from its workforce of 107,000.
intel: Until then, the manufacture of complex integrated circuits was not reliable enough for customers to depend on a single supplier, but Grove began producing processors in three geographically distinct factories, and ceased licensing the chip designs to competitors such as AMD.
intel: In October 2023, Intel announced it would be spinning off its Programmable Solutions Group business unit into a separate company at the start of 2024, while maintaining majority ownership and intending to seek an IPO within three years to raise funds.
intel: The Vanguard Group (9.12% of shares)
BlackRock (8.04%)
State Street (4.45%)
Capital International (2.29%)
Geode Capital Management (2.01%)
Primecap (1.78%)
Capital Research Global Investors (1.63%)
Morgan Stanley (1.18%)
Norges Bank (1.14%)
Northern Trust (1.05%)
intel: The acquisition of a Spanish natural language recognition startup, Indisys was announced in September 2013.
intel: In August 2023, Intel terminated the acquisition as it failed to obtain approval from Chinese regulators within the 18-month transaction deadline.
intel: In all cases, a 'K' at the end shows that it is an unlocked processor, enabling additional overclocking abilities (for instance, 2500K).
intel: In September 2005, Intel filed a response to an AMD lawsuit, disputing AMD's claims, and claiming that Intel's business practices are fair and lawful.
intel: In April 2025, chief marketing officer Brett Hannath announced a new marketing campaign—"That's the power of Intel Inside"—to highlight the usage of Intel products across different markets and industries.
intel: During that period, it became the dominant supplier of PC microprocessors and was known for aggressive and anti-competitive tactics in defense of its market position, particularly against AMD, as well as a struggle with Microsoft for control over the direction of the PC industry.
intel: Intel's headcount in Israel also fell below 9,000 for the first time since 2012.
intel: By the early 1980s, its business was dominated by DRAM chips.
intel: The move will allow Nvidia to offer its powerful servers—the GB300 based on Blackwell GPUs—to customers using Intel's X86 architecture.
intel: Intel planned to use Infineon's technology in laptops, smart phones, netbooks, tablets and embedded computers in consumer products, eventually integrating its wireless modem into Intel's silicon chips.
intel: In 2020, as part of a new visual identity, a new typeface, Intel One, was released, designed by Tobias Frere-Jones and Fred Shallcrass of Frere-Jones Type.
intel: Federal Trade Commission (FTC) also began an antitrust investigation of the case.
intel: Bob Swan was named interim CEO, as the Board began a search for a permanent CEO.
intel: Intel's Gaudi 2 and Gaudi 3 AI accelerators were revealed to be more cost-effective than competitors' offerings.
intel: In August 2010, Intel and Infineon Technologies announced that Intel would acquire Infineon's Wireless Solutions business.
intel: Intel's business grew during the 1970s as it expanded and improved its manufacturing processes and produced a wider range of products, still dominated by various memory devices.
intel: It was succeeded by the Westmere microarchitecture in 2010, with a die shrink to 32 nm and included Intel HD Graphics.
intel: Intel has since sold Stratix, Arria, and Cyclone FPGAs.
intel: Intel continued its tick-tock model of a microarchitecture change followed by a die shrink until the 6th-generation Core family based on the Skylake microarchitecture.
intel: On June 6, 2005, Steve Jobs, then CEO of Apple, announced that Apple would be transitioning the Macintosh from its long favored PowerPC architecture to the Intel x86 architecture because the future PowerPC road map was unable to satisfy Apple's needs.
intel: This was based on the Intel Core microarchitecture, and was a 64-bit design.
intel: (Instead, AMD started to develop and manufacture its own competing x86 designs.)
As the success of Compaq's Deskpro 386 established the 386 as the dominant CPU choice, Intel achieved a position of near-exclusive dominance as its supplier.
intel: Intel's headquarters are located in Santa Clara, California, and the company has operations around the world.
intel: In a video posted on YouTube, Intel accepted this fact and called for further testing.
intel: In December 2021, Intel said it will invest $7.1 billion to build a new chip-packaging and testing factory in Malaysia.
intel: Intel very quickly adopted "Intel Inside" as its primary branding and rolled it out worldwide.
intel: The five-note jingle was introduced in 1994 and by its tenth anniversary was being heard in 130 countries around the world.
intel: Data Center Group – 33.7% of 2020 revenues – produces hardware components used in server, network, and storage platforms.
intel: The Intel jingle was made in 1994 to coincide with the launch of the Pentium.
intel: In 2022 the €1.06 billion fine was dropped, but was successively re-imposed in September 2023 as a €376.36 million fine.
intel: In 2004 and 2005, AMD brought further claims against Intel related to unfair competition.
intel: All 11th-generation Core processors featured new integrated graphics based on the Intel Xe microarchitecture.
intel: He convinced customers that this would ensure consistent delivery.
intel: In June 2024, the company announced that it was stopping development on a Kiryat Gat-based factory in Israel.
intel: As a result, Intel invested heavily in new microprocessor designs in the mid-to-late 1990s, fostering the industry's rapid growth.
intel: The P5 was introduced in 1993 as the Intel Pentium, substituting a registered trademark name for the former part number.
intel: The Systems Group campaign was lesser known than the Intel Inside campaign.
intel: For example, in 2006 Intel released MIT-licensed X.org drivers for its integrated graphic cards of the i965 family of chipsets.
intel: The start of the construction was initially planned for 2023, but this was postponed to late 2024, while the production start was scheduled for 2027.
intel: In December 2023, Intel unveiled Gaudi3, an artificial intelligence (AI) chip for generative AI software which launched in 2024 and competes with rival chips from Nvidia and AMD.
intel: Along with Microsoft Windows, it was part of the "Wintel" personal computer domination in the 1990s and early 2000s.
intel: In 2013, Intel became a sponsor of FC Barcelona.
intel: The commuters also stated that they did not want to see everything the car was doing.
intel: Intel ran the Moblin project until April 23, 2009, when it handed the project over to the Linux Foundation.
intel: As part of the deal, Intel would have a controlling stake by funding 51% of the cost of building new chip-making facilities in Chandler.
intel: The desktop processors changed when the Core 2 line of processors were released.
intel: Financial results revealed that, under Otellini, Intel's revenue increased by 55.8% (US$34.2 to 53.3 billion), while its net income increased by 46.7% (US$7.5 billion to 11 billion).
intel: In 2006, Intel expanded its promotion of open specification platforms beyond Centrino, to include the Viiv media center PC and the business desktop Intel vPro.
intel: It abandons the famous "dropped-e" the logo used to have in favor of a "vortex," made up of two stripes of varying thickness.
intel: Virtually overnight, the sales of personal computers in that store dramatically shifted to Intel-based PCs.
intel: There were originally 500,000 shares outstanding of which Noyce bought 245,000 shares, Moore 245,000 shares, and Rock 10,000 shares; all at $1 per share.
intel: The company has made use of numerous variants since its rebranding in 2020 (while retaining the mainstream 2006 version).
intel: Intel announced the ultrabook concept at Computex in 2011.
intel: In October 2023, Intel confirmed it would be the first commercial user of high-NA extreme ultraviolet lithography tools, as part of its plan to regain process leadership from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC).
intel: In November 2012, president and CEO Paul Otellini announced that he would step down in May 2013 at the age of 62, three years before the company's mandatory retirement age.
intel: It has 3 optical sizes.
intel: After the acquisition, Intel had about 90,000 employees, including about 12,000 software engineers.
intel: In 2017, Intel announced that the Itanium 9700 series (Kittson) would be the last Itanium chips produced.
intel: Through multiplier effects, every 10 Intel jobs supported, on average, was found to create 31 jobs in other sectors of the economy.
intel: Intel invests heavily in research in China and about 100 researchers – or 10% of the total number of researchers from Intel – are located in Beijing.
intel: Andy Grove became the company's president in 1979 and added the CEO title in 1987 when Moore became chairman.
intel: Other major semiconductor companies include TSMC, GlobalFoundries, Texas Instruments, ASML, STMicroelectronics, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), Micron, SK Hynix, Kioxia, and SMIC.
intel: The third logo, introduced on September 2, 2020, was created by Andrew Mirikian of VMLY&R using the Intel One custom font.
intel: In 2019, Intel released the 10th-generation of Core processors, codenamed "Amber Lake", "Comet Lake", and "Ice Lake".
intel: The first Mac computers containing Intel CPUs were announced on January 10, 2006, and Apple had its entire line of consumer Macs running on Intel processors by early August 2006.
intel: The hub focuses on improving Ericsson Cloud RAN and Intel technology, including improving energy efficiency and network performance, reducing time to market, and monetizing new business opportunities such as enterprise applications.
intel: In June 2014, the General Court, which sits below the European Court of Justice, rejected the appeal.
intel: We signed the agreement to acquire the company on May 31 and the deal has been completed." Indysis explains that its artificial intelligence (AI) technology "is a human image, which converses fluently and with common sense in multiple languages and also works in different platforms".
intel: IAL's software efforts met with a more mixed fate; its video and graphics software was important in the development of software digital video, but later its efforts were largely overshadowed by competition from Microsoft.
intel: In March 2021, Intel removed the mandatory retirement age for its corporate officers.
intel: Intel also discontinued its consumer Optane products in 2021.
intel: Intel's software head Renée James was selected as president of the company, a role that is second to the CEO position.
intel: In order to reach this goal, the company would offer early retirement and voluntary departure options.
intel: manufacturing, R&D focus, and supply chain rules, the government indirectly shapes production priorities without formally controlling the company.
intel: Several months later, "The Computer Inside" incorporated the Japan idea to become "Intel Inside" which eventually elevated to the worldwide branding campaign in 1991, by Intel marketing manager Dennis Carter.
intel: These include a new strategy, called IDM 2.0, that includes investments in manufacturing facilities, use of both internal and external foundries, and a new foundry business called Intel Foundry Services (IFS), a standalone business unit.
intel: In 1992, Intel became the biggest semiconductor chip maker by revenue and held the position until 2018 when Samsung Electronics surpassed it, but Intel returned to its former position the year after.
intel: The deal was worth $24.8 million.
intel: General counsel Bruce Sewell responded that the commission had misunderstood some factual assumptions regarding pricing and manufacturing costs.
intel: Rock offered $2,500,000 of convertible debentures to a limited group of private investors (equivalent to $21 million in 2022), convertible at $5 per share.
intel: Following the meeting, President Trump wrote in a Truth Social post that "the meeting was interesting" and Tan's "success and rise is an amazing story".
intel: Intel plans to improve power consumption of its chips for ultrabooks, like new Ivy Bridge processors in 2013, which will only have 10W default thermal design power.
intel: The founders' goal was the semiconductor memory market, widely predicted to replace magnetic-core memory.
intel: In 2022, Intel announced that they were dropping the Pentium and Celeron naming schemes for their desktop and laptop entry level processors.
intel: Safety levels of autonomous driving technology, the thought of abandoning control to a machine, and psychological comfort of passengers in such situations were the major discussion topics initially.
intel: In June 2017, Intel Corporation announced an investment of over ₹1,100 crore (US$110 million) for its upcoming Research and Development centre in Bangalore, India.
intel: In 2017, Intel introduced SSDs based on 3D XPoint technology under the Optane brand name.
intel: In doing this, Intel breached its contract with AMD, which sued and was paid millions of dollars in damages but could not manufacture new Intel CPU designs any longer.
intel: Nicely later learned that Intel had discovered the FDIV bug in its own testing a few months before him (but had decided not to inform customers).
intel: In November 2008, Intel released the 1st-generation Core processors based on the Nehalem microarchitecture.
intel: One resident claimed that a release of 1.4 tons of carbon tetrachloride was measured from one acid scrubber during the fourth quarter of 2003 but an emission factor allowed Intel to report no carbon tetrachloride emissions for all of 2003.
intel: The idea of "ingredient branding" was new at the time, with only NutraSweet and a few others making attempts to do so.
intel: In October 2025, Intel commenced talks to add rival AMD to its foundry customers.
intel: Robert Noyce was Intel's CEO at its founding in 1968, followed by co-founder Gordon Moore in 1975.
intel: In the late 1980s, Intel's market share was being seriously eroded by upstart competitors such as AMD, Zilog, and others who had started to sell their less expensive microprocessors to computer manufacturers.
intel: By the end of the 1990s, microprocessor performance had outstripped software demand for that CPU power.
intel: In mid-January 2006, Intel announced that it was dropping the long running Pentium name from its processors.
intel: On January 31, 2019, Swan transitioned from his role as CFO and interim CEO and was named by the Board as the seventh CEO to lead the company.
intel: In spite of the significant negative attention Intel received as a result of the wireless dealings, the binary firmware still, as of late 2014, had not gained a license compatible with free software principles.
intel: Intel Clear is a global font announced in 2014 designed for to be used across all communications.
intel: Intel has also supported other open source projects such as Blender and Open 3D Engine.
intel: Despite efforts to enhance Intel's manufacturing capabilities and compete with rivals like AMD and Nvidia, the company faced mounting challenges, including a $16.6 billion loss and a 60% drop in share prices since Gelsinger's appointment in 2021.
intel: Intel's Chief Strategist for the IoT Strategy and Technology Office, Jeff Fedders, became the consortium's first president.
intel: A key element of his plan was the notion, then considered radical, of becoming the single source for successors to the popular 8086 microprocessor.
intel: The resulting implementation of the IA-64 64-bit architecture was the Itanium, finally introduced in June 2001.
intel: However, the advent of such mobile computing devices, in particular, smartphones, has led to a decline in PC sales.
intel: It also has assembly and testing sites in China, Costa Rica, Malaysia, and Vietnam, and one site in the United States.
intel: law did not initially recognize intellectual property rights related to microprocessor topology (circuit layouts), until the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984, a law sought by Intel and the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA).
intel: In December 2011, Intel announced that it reorganized several of its business units into a new mobile and communications group that would be responsible for the company's smartphone, tablet, and wireless efforts.
intel: Unlike the previous naming scheme, these names no longer corresponded to specific technical features.
intel: Grove retired as chairman and as a member of the board of directors in 2005 at age 68.
intel: Intel has been operating in Israel since Dov Frohman founded the Israeli branch of the company in 1974 in a small office in Haifa.
intel: The company is setting aside a $300 million fund to be spent over the next three to four years in areas related to ultrabooks.
intel: Intel Israel has development centers in Haifa, Jerusalem and Petah Tikva, and a plant in the Kiryat Gat industrial park that develops and manufactures microprocessors and communications products.
intel: Intel denied these claims.
intel: Intel created the first commercially available microprocessor, the Intel 4004, in 1971.
intel: This was primarily a reference to the movement of the auto-steering wheel with no one sitting in the driving seat.
intel: The company's plan has ultimately called for 24,000 layoffs, axing plans to build a mega-fab, and assembly and testing facilities in Germany and Poland, and consolidating its assembly and test operations in Costa Rica into its Vietnam sites.
intel: Its successor, the Core 2 family, was released on July 27, 2006.
intel: On June 27, 2006, the sale of Intel's XScale assets was announced.
intel: In particular, the SEC charged that from 2002 to 2006, Dell had an agreement with Intel to receive rebates in exchange for not using chips manufactured by AMD.
intel: Its largest workforce concentration anywhere is in Washington County, Oregon (in the Portland metropolitan area's "Silicon Forest"), with 18,600 employees at several facilities.
intel: Intel was the world's third-largest semiconductor chip manufacturer by revenue in 2024 and has been included in the Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by revenue since 2007.
intel: The Santa Clara design team embarked in 1993 on a successor to the x86 architecture, codenamed "P7".
intel: IBM introduced its personal computer in 1981, and it was rapidly successful.
intel: In February 2008, Intel announced that its office in Munich, Germany had been raided by European Union (EU) regulators.
intel: General Manager of Intel's custom foundry division Sunit Rikhi indicated that Intel would pursue further such deals in the future.
intel: In June 2008, the Fair Trade Commission ordered Intel to pay a fine of US$25.5 million for taking advantage of its dominant position to offer incentives to major Korean PC manufacturers on the condition of not buying products from AMD.
intel: Other factors, such as land acquisition and construction improvements, added to the tax burden.
intel: FACE Intel was founded by Ken Hamidi, who was fired from Intel in 1995 at the age of 47.
intel: They later delayed mass production to 2018, and then to 2019.
intel: On August 7, 2025, President Donald Trump called for Tan's removal as CEO due to his China connections.
intel: Intel has seen its market share slip from over 90% in 2020.
intel: In logo, it replaced Neo Sans Intel typeface.
intel: A case of industrial espionage arose in 1995 that involved both Intel and AMD.
intel: Novick, co-founder of BlackRock
Gregory Smith, CFO of Boeing
Dion Weisler, former president and CEO of HP Inc.
intel: In 2008, a court date was finally set.
intel: As Intel struggled to shrink its process node from 14 nm to 10 nm, processor development slowed and the company continued to use the Skylake microarchitecture until 2020, albeit with optimizations.
intel: It squares off the corners of the I and L to convey reliability and endurance.
intel: The company expected the facility to begin producing chips by 2025.
intel: Other plans for the company include a partnership with IBM and a new event for developers and engineers, called "Intel ON".
intel: Neo Sans Intel remained in logo and to mark processor type and socket on the packaging of Intel's processors.
intel: After 2000, growth in demand for high-end microprocessors slowed.
intel: Subsequently, Intel would create one of the first microcomputers in 1973.
intel: On January 13, 2021, Intel announced that Swan would be replaced as CEO by Pat Gelsinger, effective February 15.
intel: This generation was fabricated using Intel's 10 nm process, called Intel 7, for both desktop and mobile processors, and was based on a hybrid architecture using high-performance Golden Cove cores and high-efficiency Gracemont (Atom) cores.
intel: As of 2014, Intel employed 10,000 workers at four development centers and two production plants in Israel.
intel: Intel's partnership with Google was announced at the Intel Developers Forum (IDF) 2011 in San Francisco, California.
intel: The company produces three-quarters of its products in the United States, although three-quarters of its revenue come from overseas.
intel: The terms of the deal were not disclosed but an email from an Intel representative stated: "Intel has acquired Indisys, a privately held company based in Seville, Spain.
intel: In June, the company announced it would be closing its automotive chipmaking business and eliminating up to 20% of staff at its Hillsboro, Oregon foundry.
intel: employees in technical roles, the mix was reported as 79.8% male and 20.1% female.
intel: Later that year, Intel released a processor with the Nehalem architecture to positive reception.
intel: Intel was one of the first companies—and the oldest—to be listed on the then-newly established National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (NASDAQ).
intel: As of May 2024, the U.S.
intel: However, Mion felt that the marketplace should decide which processors they wanted.
intel: It was inspired by the previous logos and is meant to show that the Intel brand is both traditional and reliable.
intel: In July 2025, Intel confirmed that it would let go of nearly 24,000 employees—about 15% of its workforce—by the end of 2025 as part of a wider restructuring plan.
intel: It was introduced alongside Intel's rebranding in 2006.
intel: In the 1990s, the company had a 90% market share in the PC microprocessor market.
intel: It was also a sponsor of the Formula One teams BMW Sauber, Toyota, Caterham, and McLaren.
intel: While some reports briefly indicated a near-equal market split, further investigation revealed that these initial figures were influenced by manipulated benchmark data and were corrected shortly thereafter.
intel: Due to declining PC sales, in 2016 Intel cut 12,000 jobs.
intel: The D♭–D♭–G♭–D♭–A♭ xylophone/marimba jingle, known as the "Intel Spiral" or "Intel Bong", used in Intel advertising was written by Walter Werzowa of Musikvergnuegen.
intel: Intel Corporation is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Santa Clara, California.
intel: Both Amber Lake and Comet Lake were based on a refined 14 nm node, with the latter being used for desktop and high-performance mobile products and the former used for low-power mobile products.
intel: Cadence pled guilty to the charges in 2025 and paid a fine of $140 million.
intel: In August 2025, Intel announced an agreement to give the U.S.
intel: Intel had reportedly been paying taxes as a non-air-conditioned office, when the campus in fact had central air conditioning.
intel: Additionally, Intel disclosed architecture details for its Lunar Lake processors for AI PCs, which were released on September 24, 2024.
intel: Official website 
Intel companies grouped at OpenCorporates
Intel on OpenSecrets, a website that tracks and publishes data on campaign finance and lobbying 
Business data for Intel Corporation:
intel: Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnick and U.S.
intel: On June 6, 2005, Steve Jobs, then CEO of Apple, announced that Apple would be using Intel's x86 processors for its Macintosh computers, switching from the PowerPC architecture developed by the AIM alliance.
intel: In 2011, Intel released the Sandy Bridge-based 2nd-generation Core processor family.
intel: Intel was found to have paid companies, including Acer, Dell, HP, Lenovo and NEC, to exclusively use Intel chips in their products, and therefore harmed other, less successful companies including AMD.
intel: The major Chinese phone and telecommunications manufacturer Huawei has released chips based on the RISC-V instruction set due to US sanctions against China.
intel: The firm founded by ex-AMD Qualcomm mobile GPU engineers, was focused on developing software and silicon building blocks for GPU's made by other companies and was set to join Intel's fledgling Accelerated Computing Systems and Graphics Group.
intel: Like many companies with employee diversity groups, they include groups based on race and nationality as well as sexual identity and religion.
