iraq: Journal of Universal Language.
iraq: The hopes for Iraq's future under Faisal II were high, but the nation remained divided.
iraq: With the founding of Baghdad in 762, Iraq became the political, economic, and intellectual core during the Islamic Golden Age, housing institutions such as the House of Wisdom.
iraq: Following the withdrawal of US troops in 2011, the occupation ceased and war ended.
iraq: Prior to 2003 their numbers together may have been 2 million, the majority Yarsan, a non-Islamic religion with roots in pre-Islamic and pre-Christian religion.
iraq: Iraq was subsequently incorporated into the Ilkhanate as a territorial province within the Mongol Empire.
iraq: Saddam's Iraq was included in Bush's "axis of evil".
iraq: Conflict-ridden areas like Saladin Governorate have seen over 90% of school-age children out of school due to the conversion of schools into shelters or military bases.
iraq: On 14 March 2014, the International Energy Agency said Iraq's oil output jumped by half a million barrels a day in February to average 3.6 million barrels a day.
iraq: VIII, Fasc.
iraq: Iraq has one of the longest written traditions in the world including architecture, literature, music, dance, painting, weaving, pottery, calligraphy, stonemasonry and metalworking.
iraq: Sanctions were imposed on Iraq, following the invasion of Kuwait, which resulted in economic decline.
iraq: ISBN 9780582405257.
iraq: The subsequent macroeconomic shock caused a severe decline in oil prices, critically impacting Iraq's oil-dependent economy.
iraq: A report published on 24 July 2025 and submitted to the United Nations Security Council, assessed that ISIS "is at its weakest" in Iraq since its emergence.
iraq: The college was established at Ar Rustamiyah on 27 September 2005.
iraq: In 1258, Mongol forces captured and sacked Baghdad, bringing Abbasid political rule in Iraq to an end and causing widespread destruction.
iraq: In 2008, there were 6.96 physicians and 13.92 nurses per 10,000 inhabitants.
iraq: During the 16th and 17th centuries, Iraq was a major frontier of the Ottoman–Safavid wars, with Baghdad changing hands several times until the Treaty of Zuhab in 1639 confirmed Ottoman control.
iraq: The literature during this time were mainly about mythical and epic texts dealing with creation issues, the emergence of the world, the gods, descriptions of the heavens, and the lives of heroes in the wars that broke out between the nomads and the urbanites.
iraq: Iraq, home to one of the largest oil reserves in the world, has a significant oil and gas industry.
iraq: Oil production levels reached 3.4 million barrels per day by December 2012.
iraq: Midhat Pasha introduced further reforms in taxation, land registration, infrastructure, education, and communications, reforms often seen as laying the groundwork for the modern Iraq.
iraq: After the 2003 invasion of Iraq, violence against Christians rose, with reports of abduction, torture, bombings, and killings.
iraq: Regency of King Faisal II ended on 2 May 1953, his 18th birthday, upon which he gained his majority.
iraq: Peeters Publishers.
iraq: There are 120 districts and 394 subdistricts in Iraq.
iraq: The subsequent efforts to rebuild the country amidst sectarian violence was galvanised by continuing discontent over Nouri al-Maliki's government, which led to protests.
iraq: In 2013, taking advantage of the ensuing chaos and popular discontent against the Iraqi government, Ba'athist and other Sunni militants (Al Qaida and ISIS) launched a number of attacks against the government during what is known as the Anbar campaign.
iraq: In 2024, and during a visit to Baghdad by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a quadrilateral memorandum of understanding regarding cooperation in the Iraq–Europe Development Road project was signed between Iraq, Turkey, Qatar, UAE.
iraq: The British military responded by air bombing across the capital, where thousands of residents were killed.
iraq: After the dynasty was overthrown in 1831, the centralisation of Iraq under Baghdad began.
iraq: The new constitution was backed by the Shia and Kurdish communities, but was rejected by Sunni Arabs.
iraq: Tourism in Iraq stands to be a major growth sector, including archaeological tourism and religious tourism while the country is also considered to be a potential location for ecotourism.
iraq: Early in the 20th century, many of the most prominent musicians in Iraq were Jewish.
iraq: University of Chicago Press.
iraq: Iraq is known for producing fine handicrafts, including rugs and carpets.
iraq: On 30 June and 11 December 2009, the Ministry of Oil awarded service contracts to international oil companies for some of Iraq's many oil fields.
iraq: Under his rule, Iraq participated in the Six-Day War in 1967.
iraq: Sunni Muslims are found in the Sunni Triangle region, in cities such as Ramadi, Tikrit and Fallujah, where Sunnis make majority.
iraq: The judiciary is free and independent of the executive and the legislature.
iraq: Between the 8th and 13th centuries during the Abbasid period, pottery achieved a high level of sophistication, calligraphy began to be used to decorate the surface of decorative objects and illuminated manuscripts, particularly Q'ranic texts became more complex and stylised.
iraq: The constitution provides for two deliberative bodies, the Council of Representatives and the Council of Union.
iraq: Under the terms of the constitution, the country conducted fresh nationwide parliamentary elections on 15 December 2005.
iraq: ISBN 978-90-429-1449-0.
iraq: Forming this figure: in rural areas, 77% of people have access to improved (treated or fully naturally filtered) drinking water sources; and 98% in urban areas.
iraq: The most famous early composer from Iraq was Ezra Aharon, an oud player, while the most prominent instrumentalist was Yusuf Za'arur.
iraq: According to a report by the Arab News, Iraq has shown positive signs of recovery.
iraq: All three major ethnic groups in Iraq voted along ethnic lines, as did Assyrian and Turcoman minorities.
iraq: At present, Iraq is in the process of reconstruction.
iraq: It was planned to increase to 18,000 personnel, with 550 aircraft by 2018, but that did not happen as planned.
iraq: On 2021, it was announced that Iraq had reclaimed about 17,000 looted artefacts, which was considered to be the biggest repatriation.
iraq: The school construction project stems from a 2021 agreement between the Iraqi and Chinese governments to build 1,000 schools.
iraq: Regional disparities greatly impact enrollment rates for children in primary education in Iraq.
iraq: The Seleukid Royal Economy: The Finances and Financial Administration of the Seleukid Empire.
iraq: Baghdad also features a number of museums including the National Museum of Iraq – which houses the world's largest and finest collection of artefacts and relics of Ancient Iraqi civilisations; some of which were stolen during the occupation of Iraq.
iraq: doi:10.7817/jameroriesoci.134.2.287.
iraq: The navy consists of an operational headquarters, five afloat squadrons, and two marine battalions, designed to protect shorelines and inland waterways from insurgent infiltration.
iraq: Christianity accounted for 1%, and the rest (1-4%) practiced Yazidism, Mandaeism, and other religions.
iraq: Most dishes are served with rice – usually Basmati, grown in the marshes of southern Iraq.
iraq: After the latter's death in 1966, he was succeeded by his brother, Abdul Rahman Arif.
iraq: Iraq's Sunni-dominated monarchy struggled to reconcile the diverse ethnic and religious groups, particularly the Shiite, Assyrian, Jewish and Kurdish populations, who felt marginalised.
iraq: Christians numbered over 1.4 million in 1987 or 8% of the estimated population of 16.3 million and 550,000 in 1947 or 12% of the population of 4.6 millions.
iraq: Around 5,000 Yazidis were killed in the genocide by ISIS, as a part of the war.
iraq: The Prophet and the Age of the Caliphates: The Islamic Near East from the Sixth to the Eleventh Century (2nd ed.).
iraq: Within weeks, coalition forces occupied much of Iraq, with the Iraqi Army adopting guerrilla tactics to confront coalition forces.
iraq: "Īlk̲h̲āns".
iraq: In 2011, Pew Research estimated that 51% of Muslims in Iraq see themselves as Shia, 42% as Sunni, while 5% as "just a Muslim".
iraq: Starting in the 6th millennium BC, the fertile plains between Iraq's Tigris and Euphrates rivers, referred to as Mesopotamia, fostered the rise of early cities, civilisations, and empires including Sumer, Akkad, Babylonia, and Assyria.
iraq: Encyclopaedia Iranica, Vol.
iraq: In 2007, the UN said that about 40% of Iraq's middle class was believed to have fled and that most had fled systematic persecution and had no desire to return.
iraq: The Republic of Iraq is defined under the current constitution as a democratic, federal parliamentary republic.
iraq: By 2003, according to a BBC report, there were 20 radio stations from 0.15 to 17 television stations owned by Iraqis, and 200 Iraqi newspapers owned and operated.
iraq: Another 30 percent is mountainous with bitterly cold winters.
iraq: Mandaeans live primarily around Baghdad, Fallujah, Basra and Hillah.
iraq: MOD forces include the Iraqi Army (including the Iraqi Army Aviation Command), the Iraqi Air Force, the Iraqi Air Defence Command and the Iraqi Navy.
iraq: Its appearance began with symbols of the things denoting it, then it turned with time to the cuneiform line on tablets.
iraq: New Islamic Dynasties: A Chronological and Genealogical Manual.
iraq: doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_SIM_1569.
iraq: JSTOR 4299720.
iraq: Iraq was an important tourist destination for many years but that changed dramatically during the war with Iran and after the invasion by the US and allies.
iraq: On major motorways the maximum speed is 110 km/h (68 mph).
iraq: "ʿErāq-E ʿAjam(ī)".
iraq: "Jihān-Shāh Qara-Qoyunlu and His Poetry (Turkmenica, 9)".
iraq: Under Saddam, the government employed 1 million employees, but this increased to around 7 million in 2016.
iraq: The National Theatre of Iraq was looted during the 2003 invasion, but efforts are underway to restore it.
iraq: The sanctions prohibited Iraq from exporting oil until 1996 and Iraq's output declined by 85% in the years following the First Gulf War.
iraq: Iraq is home to over 250 Jewish sites.
iraq: Bae, Chul-hyun (2004).
iraq: He was overthrown by the Ba'ath Party in a February 1963 coup.
iraq: Unlike other poorer countries, which focused on mass health care using primary care practitioners, Iraq developed a Westernised system of sophisticated hospitals with advanced medical procedures, provided by specialist physicians.
iraq: In October 2005, the new Constitution of Iraq was approved in a referendum with a 78% overall majority, although the percentage of support varied widely between the country's territories.
iraq: This is down from a peak life expectancy of 71.31 years in 1996.
iraq: The uprising was crushed by the government forces.
iraq: Under his rule, the population dwindled—not due to persecution, but because the government lifted travel restrictions, allowing many Jews to emigrate abroad and visiting Iraq occasionally.
iraq: Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies.
iraq: Iraq has various medieval poets, most remarkably Hariri of Basra, Mutanabbi, Abu Nuwas, and Al-Jahiz.
iraq: In 1959, Abd al-Wahab al-Shawaf led an uprising in Mosul against Qasim.
iraq: The coalition forces proceeded with a bombing campaign targeting military targets and then launched a 100-hour-long ground assault against Iraqi forces in southern Iraq and Kuwait.
iraq: The MOD also runs a Joint Staff College, training army, navy, and air force officers, with support from the NATO Training Mission - Iraq.
iraq: The coalition forces were accused of war crimes such as the Abu Ghraib torture, the Fallujah massacre, the Mahmudiyah rape and killings and the Mukaradeeb wedding party massacre.
iraq: The Cambridge History of Iran.
iraq: The president is the ceremonial head of state, while the prime minister is the head of government and the commander-in-chief of the armed forces with direct executive authority over general state policy.
iraq: When the Sasanians lost the Mesopotamian capital at Ctesiphon during the Arab conquests, Sasanian rule came to an end.
iraq: Under the provisions of this treaty, Iraq is considered a party with declared stockpiles of chemical weapons.
iraq: This prompted widespread water supply and sanitation shortfalls thus poor water and service quality.
iraq: At this point, around 1,500 Jews remained.
iraq: Spuler, Bertold; Ettinghausen, Richard (2012).
iraq: He worked hard to gain support of Iraq's diverse population and paid special attention to the Shi'a community, symbolically choosing the date of his coronation to coincide with Eid al-Ghadeer, a key day for Shiite Muslims.
iraq: The electrical grid faces systemic pressures due to climate change, fuel shortages, and an increase in demand.
iraq: In 2003, U.S.-led coalition forces invaded and occupied Iraq, overthrowing the government and triggering an insurgency and sectarian violence during the Iraq War, which ended in 2011.
iraq: The City of the Moon God: Religious Traditions of Harran.
iraq: In Babylonian contexts, Seleucid rulers were described as kings in Babylonia.
iraq: Currently, a large project is underway to connect Karbala and Najaf.
iraq: Babylon became an imperial capital of the empire, and Aramaic, long established in Mesopotamia, became the lingua franca of the empire for administration and interregional communication.
iraq: Major airports at Baghdad, Basra, Erbil, Sulaymaniyah, Kirkuk and Najaf.
iraq: Tablets found in ancient ruins in Iraq show recipes prepared in the temples during religious festivals – the first cookbooks in the world.
iraq: Iraq was the metropole of the Abbasid Caliphate even before Baghdad was founded, and following earlier Mesopotamian precedents, Abbasid rulers spent large sums on restoring and extending canal systems and cultivating land.
iraq: In the 1970s, the leadership offered peace initiatives to Assyrians in Iraq and invited exiled Iraqi Jews back to Iraq.
iraq: It is expected to be completed in four to five years.
iraq: The New Edinburgh Islamic Surveys.
iraq: The Central Provisional Authority issued new dinar coins and notes, with the notes printed by De La Rue using modern anti-forgery techniques.
iraq: Located west of the capital, the new city will host 30,000 housing units which will cost $2 billion.
iraq: More than half of Iraqi Christians had fled the country since the US-led invasion.
iraq: The country's electrical grid faces systemic pressures due to climate change, fuel shortages, and an increase in demand.
iraq: Abbasid Iraq generated the highest state revenues of the caliphate, reaching four times that of Egypt, the second richest province, drawing largely on the agricultural productivity of southern Iraq.
iraq: British Institute for the Study of Iraq: 123–146.
iraq: Religious freedom in Iraq is limited due to a risk of persecution or violence in case of religious conversion away from Islam.
iraq: By the time Saddam Hussein came to power, their population had reached 15,000.
iraq: In the same year, the government launched the implementation of a joint operation and management programme for modern hospitals at the newly opened Najaf Teaching Hospital.
iraq: According to officials, none of it is financed by the government.
iraq: Pearson Longman.
iraq: From 2013 to 2017, Iraq faced another major conflict with the rise and defeat of the Islamic State.
iraq: Turkey's "Great Anatolia Project" reduced Iraq's water supply and affected agriculture.
iraq: During the 1970s Iraq produced up to 3.5 million barrels per day, but sanctions imposed against Iraq after its invasion of Kuwait in 1990 crippled the country's oil sector.
iraq: In late antiquity, Mesopotamia formed part of the decentralized Parthian Empire, which contained numerous semi-autonomous kingdoms and maintained Aramaic as a lingua franca alongside Mesopotamian religious traditions.
iraq: It is home to a diverse population, geography and wildlife.
iraq: In the later 15th century, the Aq Qoyunlu defeated the Qara Qoyunlu and established control over Iraq as part of a wider regional empire.
iraq: The architecture of Iraq has a long history, encompassing several distinct cultures and spanning a period from the 10th millennium BC and features both the Mesopotamian and Abbasid architecture.
iraq: The northern mountainous regions have cold winters with occasional heavy snows, sometimes causing extensive flooding.
iraq: Summer temperatures average above 40 °C (104 °F) for most of the country and frequently exceed 48 °C (118.4 °F).
iraq: Arab forces, inspired by the promise of independence, had helped dismantle the Ottoman hold on the Middle East, but the dream of a united, sovereign Arab state was soon dashed.
iraq: The Kurdish and Shia populated regions of Iraq experienced an economic boom after the end of the war, and until 2023, Kurdistan Region was considered economically more stable —mostly driven by hitherto independent oil exports.
iraq: Kennedy, Hugh (2016).
iraq: This usage continued into the early Islamic period.
iraq: The current Iraqi armed forces were rebuilt after the US invasion of Iraq, with large amounts of American military aid at all levels.
iraq: Nasiriyah Airport is in partnership with China and reoping of Mosul Airport, which was closed during the 2013–2017 civil war.
iraq: Sunni insurgents belonging to the Islamic State group seized control of large swathes of land including several major cities, like Tikrit, Fallujah and Mosul, creating hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons amid reports of atrocities by ISIS fighters.
iraq: Modern prominent architects include Zaha Hadid, Basil Bayati, Rifat Chadirji and Hisham N.
iraq: After uprisings during the early 90s, many Kurds fled their homeland and no-fly zones were established in northern Iraq to prevent more conflicts.
iraq: Al-Adil Shopping Center (formerly Ozdi Pak) in Baghdad was the second mall in the region after Egypt.
iraq: Iraq were champions of the 2007 AFC Asian Cup, and they participated in the 1986 FIFA World Cup, the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup and the 2026 FIFA World Cup.
iraq: In 2009, the Iraq Britain Business Council formed.
iraq: The country had not pumped that much oil since 1979, when Saddam Hussein rose to power.
iraq: The resolution specifically calls for ending of a 2014 agreement allowing Washington to help Iraq against Islamic State groups by sending troops.
iraq: Baghdad is the capital, home to the seat of government; within this is the Green Zone, which contains governmental headquarters and the army, in addition to containing the embassies (including the largest embassy in the world) and headquarters of foreign organisations and intentions agencies.
iraq: Only about 2,000 oil wells have been drilled in Iraq, compared with about 1 million wells in Texas alone.
iraq: Iraqi cuisine can be traced back some 10,000 years – to the Sumerians, Akkadians, Babylonians, Assyrians and Ancient Persians.
iraq: According to official US Citizenship and Immigration Services statistics, 58,811 Iraqis had been granted refugee-status citizenship as of 25 May 2011.
iraq: This form of art is recognised by UNESCO as "an intangible heritage of humanity".
iraq: Under Sasanian rule this territory was organized as the province of Āsōristān, corresponding to the geography of Babylonia which Arabic-writing geographers referred to as al-ʿIrāq, a regional designation that continued into the Islamic period.
iraq: The Iranic state came to be dependent on the Iraqi Sawad for its state revenues and centralized administration.
iraq: doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_COM_1274.
iraq: As Iraq continues to develop and stabilises, tourism in Iraq is still facing many challenges, and little has been made by the government to meet its tremendous potential as a global tourist destination, and gain the associated economic benefits, mainly due to conflicts.
iraq: But it faced economic decline as a result of sanctions.
iraq: Under Umayyad rule, the governor of Iraq frequently exercised authority over much of the empire's eastern provinces.
iraq: doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_SIM_5099.
iraq: After 2003, the Coalition Provisional Authority quickly began issuing many binding orders privatising the Iraqi economy and opening it up to foreign investment.
iraq: The government introduced free healthcare and education, nationalised oil, promoted women's rights and developed infrastructure.
iraq: This is a list of examples of some significant sites in a country with a tremendous archaeological and historic wealth.
iraq: Baghdad and Mosul have plethora of cultural and heritage buildings.
iraq: Following the British withdrawal of support for a unified Arab state, Hussein's son, Faisal, briefly declared the Kingdom of Syria in 1920, encompassing parts of what are now Lebanon, Palestine, Jordan, and Syria.
iraq: At risk are some 50% of the world's marbled teal population that live in the marshes, along with 60% of the world's population of Basra reed-warbler.
iraq: With its 143.1 billion barrels (2.275×1010 m3) of proved oil reserves, Iraq ranks third in the world behind Venezuela and Saudi Arabia in the amount of oil reserves.
iraq: In recent years, Sunni-populated provinces in Iraq have also made economic progress, as evidenced by numerous new construction projects.
iraq: In 1958, a military coup led by Abdul Karim Qasim overthrew the monarchy and established a republic.
iraq: Stages are: pre-invasion preparation, and the war and the actual choice of targets, the first post-war period, and a growing insurgency and hand over power to the Iraqi Interim Government (IIG) and Prime Minister Iyad Allawi.
iraq: Masʿūdī, ʿAlī ibn al-Ḥusayn (2010) [10th century].
iraq: Maintaining Mesopotamian royal tradition, Cyrus the Great adopted titles such as King of Babylon, King of Sumer and Akkad, and King of the Four Corners, while continuing the Assyrian-derived imperial title King of Kings, which remained in use into late antiquity.
iraq: Sherwin-White, S.
iraq: Cambridge History of Iran.
iraq: Hodgson, Marshall G.
iraq: The US Congress passed a joint resolution, which authorised the use of armed force against Iraq.
iraq: Prior to the invasion in 2003, Arabic was the sole official language.
iraq: "Babylonian Chronicle Fragments as a Source for Seleucid History".
iraq: Kennedy, Hugh N.
iraq: Today, it is estimated that only around 400 Jews remain in Iraq.
iraq: doi:10.1017/CHOL9780521246934.003.
iraq: After Mesopotamia came under Macedonian control following Alexander the Great's campaign in 331 BCE, Babylon surrendered without resistance.
iraq: The war, which ended in stalemate in 1988, killed between half a million and 1.5 million people.
iraq: The code is based on French civil law as well as Sunni and Jafari (Shi'ite) interpretations of Sharia.
iraq: Iraqi media expert and author of a number of reports on this subject, Ibrahim Al Marashi, identifies four stages of the US invasion of Iraq in 2003 where they had been taking the steps that have significant effects on the way for the later of the Iraqi media since then.
iraq: Since Saddam's overthrow, the palaces are open to tourists, though they are not officially functioning, and the government of Iraq is considering to sell them for useful purposes.
iraq: In December 2020, Al-Sudani launched the second phase of the Grand Faw Port via winning bid of project head contractor Daewoo at $2.7 billion.
iraq: The historic Assyrian Quarter in Baghdad housed 150,000 Armenians in 2003.
iraq: ISBN 978-1-4051-3278-7.
iraq: Al-maqam al-Iraqi is the collection of sung poems written either in one of the 16 meters of classical Arabic or in Iraqi dialect (Zuhayri).
iraq: This revolt was strongly anti-imperial and anti-monarchical in nature and had strong socialist elements.
iraq: Mosul Museum is the second largest museum in Iraq after the Iraq Museum in Baghdad.
iraq: The wildlife of Iraq includes its flora and fauna and their natural habitats.
iraq: 188 of the year 1959 (Personal Status Law) made polygamy extremely difficult, granted child custody to the mother in case of divorce, prohibited repudiation and marriage under the age of 16.
iraq: Ur, one of the first Sumerian cities, which is near Nasiriyya, has been partially restored.
iraq: Iraq is made up of three former administrative divisions (vilayets) of the Ottoman Empire — Mosul, Basra and Baghdad — which were designated as concentration of different ethnic groups.
iraq: King Faisal II, Prince Abd al-Ilah, and Nuri al-Sa'id, along with the royal family were killed brutally.
iraq: Important cultural institutions in the capital include the Iraqi National Symphony Orchestra – rehearsals and performances were briefly interrupted during the occupation of Iraq but have since returned to normal.
iraq: In June 2014, Iraq's leading Shii Grand Ayatollah, Ali al-Sistani issued a Fatwa calling on able-bodied men to join the Armed Forces to fight against ISIS.
iraq: Following the fall of Baghdad in the first week of April, Saddam's regime had completely lost control of Iraq.
iraq: Climate change is driving wide-scale droughts across the country while water reserves are rapidly depleting.
iraq: It contains ancient Mesopotamian artefacts.
iraq: This led to military intervention by the US-led alliance.
iraq: Most of these facilities were damaged in enduring wars, that Iraq experienced.
iraq: The country is subject to rising temperatures and reduced rainfall, and suffers from increasing water scarcity for a human population that rose tenfold between 1890 and 2010 and continues to rise.
iraq: Paul Bremer said he would veto any constitutional draft stating that sharia is the principal basis of law.
iraq: Many of Iraq's bird species were endangered, including seven of Iraq's mammal species and 12 of its bird species.
iraq: However, it has now been "de-developing" in its educational success.
iraq: The life expectancy at birth was 68.49 years in 2010, or 65.13 years for males and 72.01 years for females.
iraq: Relations with Turkey are tense, largely because of the Kurdistan Regional Government, as clashes between Turkey and the PKK continue.
iraq: In 2010, spending on healthcare accounted for 6.84% of the country's GDP.
iraq: Journal of the American Oriental Society.
iraq: Priestman, Seth M.
iraq: "Continuity and Change in the Administrative Geography of Late Sasanian and Early Islamic al-ʿIrāq".
iraq: The name al-ʿIrāq is attested as a common toponym in pre-Islamic Arabic poetry.
iraq: Since the 2003–2011, flow is restored and the ecosystem has begun to recover.
iraq: The army consists of 14 divisions, all of them infantry, except for the ninth division, which is motorized infantry.
iraq: Each division consists of four brigades and comprises 14,000 soldiers.
iraq: Recent developments in the internal political dynamics of the country has seen Baghdad reassert full control over the oil industry of the country and has been since considered more stable and prosperous, while Kurdistan Region has experienced an economic downfall.
iraq: In 2025, parliament speaker Mahmoud al-Mashhadani stressed that Iraq is stable in terms of security and economy and has taken a non-aligned approach.
iraq: "Opaque Glazed Wares: The Definition, Dating and Distribution of a Key Iraqi Ceramic Export in the Abbasid Period".
iraq: Saddam was captured and executed.
iraq: He was succeeded by prime minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi, whose tenure coincided with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
iraq: According to a US Study from May 2007, between 100,000 barrels per day (16,000 m3/d) and 300,000 barrels per day (48,000 m3/d) of Iraq's declared oil production over the past four years could have been siphoned off through corruption or smuggling.
iraq: On 12 February 2009, Iraq officially became the 186th State Party to the Chemical Weapons Convention.
iraq: Currently only a modest percentage of women (the highest estimate for 2011 was 22%) participate in the labour force.
iraq: Oxford: Oxford University Press.
iraq: Sumer is recognised as the world's earliest civilisation, marking the beginning of urban development, written language, and monumental architecture.
iraq: The decision was seen as a way to maintain British influence in the region while placating local demands for leadership.
iraq: The Abbasids were influenced mainly by Mesopotamian art traditions and later influenced Persian as well as Central Asian styles.
iraq: The government is attempting to establish railway links with Turkey, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia to complete a continuous Euro-Gulf rail route.
iraq: Most of Iraq's oil exports are done through its ports.
iraq: 134 (2): 287–306.
iraq: [Taylor & Francis]: 89–113.
iraq: doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_COM_0002.
iraq: His education reforms included the founding of Ahl al-Bayt University in Baghdad, and he encouraged the migration of Syrian exiles to Iraq to serve as doctors and educators.
iraq: His reign laid the foundations of modern Iraq.
iraq: Roadways extended 45,550 km (28,300 mi).
iraq: Corruption remains endemic throughout all levels of Iraqi governance while the political system has exacerbated sectarian conflict.
iraq: Journal of Near Eastern Studies.
iraq: Iran Under the Safavids.
iraq: It included mass executions in Islamic State-occupied part of Mosul and genocide of the Yazidis in Yazidi populated Sinjar, which is in northern Iraq.
iraq: The existing pattern of regional rule in Iraq was disrupted by the Mongol conquest in the thirteenth century.
iraq: The respect and adoration for Pasha were unusual at the time since public performance by women was considered shameful.
iraq: Despite agreements made with Hussein bin Ali, the Sharif of Makkah, the European powers had different plans for the region.
iraq: To escape the Syrian civil war, over 252,000 Syrian refugees of varying ethnicities have fled to Iraq since 2012.
iraq: In recent years, modern buildings include shopping malls and high-rise towers.
iraq: The 13th-century geographer Yaqut al-Hamawi, for example, defined Iraq as stretching "from Mosul to Abadan in length, and from Al-Qadisiyyah to Halwan in width".
iraq: Education receives only 5.7% of government spending, leading to a lack of investment in schools and poor educational rankings in the region.
iraq: According to officials, it is a strategic international project which will strengthen Iraq's geopolitical position.
iraq: The insurgents fought against the coalition forces and the newly installed government.
iraq: Now known as the Baghdad School, this movement of Islamic art was characterised by representations of everyday life and the use of highly expressive faces rather than the stereotypical characters that had been used in the past.
iraq: Since assuming office in October 2022, Prime Minister al-Sudani has overseen a period of relative political, security, and economic stabilisation.
iraq: Brosius, Maria (2006).
iraq: Journal of Cuneiform Studies.
iraq: ISBN 978-90-04-09513-7..
iraq: Sourdel, Dominique (2012).
iraq: From 1749 to 1831, Iraq was ruled by a Mamluk dynasty of Georgian origin with considerable autonomy while maintaining nominal allegiance to the Ottoman sultan.
iraq: The campaign led to the occupation of Baghdad in 1917, and in 1920 Ottoman Iraq was formally dissolved with the establishment of the British Mandate of Mesopotamia.
iraq: Key Development Forecasts for Iraq from International Futures
iraq: As an Arabic word, عراق ʿirāq means "hem", "shore", "bank", or "edge", so that the name by folk etymology came to be interpreted as "the escarpment", such as at the south and east of the Jazira Plateau, which forms the northern and western edge of the "al-Iraq arabi" area.
iraq: "Ctesiphon".
iraq: In midst of the war, between 1983 and 1986, Kurds led rebellion against the regime.
iraq: Some reports that the government has reduced corruption in public procurement of oil; however, reliable reports of bribery and kickbacks to government officials persist.
iraq: The tourism in Iraq includes also making pilgrimages to holy Shia Islamic sites near Karbala and Najaf.
iraq: Most of them fled, following the escalation of war, and today only 1,500 Armenians are found in the city.
iraq: The central part of the south, which slightly tapers in favour of other countries, is natural vegetation marsh mixed with rice paddies and is humid, relative to the rest of the plains.
iraq: Christianity in Iraq has its roots from the conception of the Church of the East in the 5th century AD, predating the existence of Islam in the region of Iraq.
iraq: "Buwayhids or Būyids".
iraq: The UNICEF/WHO report noted that prior to 1990, 97% of urban dwellers and 71% of the rural population had access to free primary health care; just 2% of hospital beds were privately managed.
iraq: Since 2003, Najaf and Karbala have experienced economic boom, due to religious tourism.
iraq: In late 2023, the government announced that it will build a total of 15 new cities across Iraq, in an attempt to tackle a persistent housing problem, according to officials.
iraq: Bush began planning the overthrow of Saddam in what is now widely regarded as a false pretense.
iraq: Iraq's first art school was established during this period, allowing artisans and crafts to flourish.
iraq: JSTOR 544538.
iraq: As part of a plan to help Iraq modernise, English telecommunications company Pye Limited built and commissioned a television broadcast station in the capital city of Baghdad.
iraq: Iraq also attempted to invade Saudi Arabia and attacked Israel.
iraq: JSTOR 48800132.
iraq: The economy has been heavily affected by the war.
iraq: London: Duckworth.
iraq: Iraq was one of the most advanced countries in the Middle East.
iraq: There are also small ethno-religious minority populations of Mandaeans, Shabaks, Yarsan and Yezidis remaining.
iraq: Iraq's total external debt was around $120 billion at the time of the invasion, and had grown another $5 billion by 2004.
iraq: JSTOR 41431231.
iraq: Faisal II's uncle, Crown Prince Abdullah, assumed regency until the young king came of age.
iraq: Government officials have cited increased regional diplomacy, improved international relations, and economic diversification initiatives such as the Iraq–Europe Development Road project as key indicators of recovery.
iraq: Before 2003, Iraq was mostly equipped with Soviet-made military equipment, the country has since turned to Western suppliers.
iraq: In Yarshater, Ehsan (ed.).
iraq: The United Kingdom deployed its army on the Iraq–Kuwait border, which forced Qasim to back down.
iraq: Two reconnaissance squadrons use light aircraft, three helicopter squadrons are used to move troops and one air transportation squadron uses C-130 transport aircraft to move troops, equipment, and supplies.
iraq: There were several interconnected traditions of art in ancient Iraq.
iraq: In August 2023, al-Sudani established the Iraq Development Fund whose purpose is to strengthen the private sector and finance projects of crucial social and environmental value.
iraq: During the Abbasid Caliphate, the House of Wisdom in Baghdad, which was a public academy and intellectual fulcrum, hosted numerous scholars and writers.
iraq: "Enclosed beyond Alexander's Barrier: On the Comparative Study of ʿAbbāsid Culture".
iraq: 91% of the population has access to potable water.
iraq: "The Economy".
iraq: After the Arab conquest of Mesopotamia in the 7th century, Iraq became the metropole of the Abbasid Caliphate with Baghdad emerging as a global cultural and intellectual hub during the Islamic Golden Age, home to institutions such as the House of Wisdom.
iraq: Qasim controlled Iraq through military rule and in 1958 he began a process of forcibly reducing surplus land owned by a few citizens and having the state redistribute the land.
iraq: Flanking and between the two major rivers are fertile alluvial plains, as the rivers carry about 60,000,000 m3 (78,477,037 cu yd) of silt annually to the delta.
iraq: Institutions offering cultural education in Baghdad include the Academy of Music, Institute of Fine Arts and the Music and Ballet School Baghdad.
iraq: Many schools have had to operate multiple shifts, sometimes giving students as little as four hours of learning per day, which negatively affects educational outcomes.
iraq: An estimated 500,000 civilians fled from Mosul.
iraq: Under Seleucid rule, administrative and economic power remained centered in Mesopotamia.
iraq: The capital, Ninus or Nineveh, was taken by the Medes under Cyaxares, and some 200 years after Xenophon passed over its site, then mere mounds of earth.
iraq: In Erskine, Andrew (ed.).
iraq: As of 2010, despite improved security and billions of dollars in oil revenue, Iraq still generates about half the electricity that customers demand, leading to protests during the hot summer months.
iraq: Komatina, Predrag (2018).
iraq: Typically, precipitation is low; most places receive less than 250 mm (9.8 in) annually, with maximum rainfall occurring during the winter months.
iraq: The country depended on large-scale imports of medicines, medical equipment and even nurses, paid for with oil export income, according to a "Watching Brief" report issued jointly by the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization in July 2003.
iraq: As of February 2011, the navy had approximately 5,000 sailors, including 800 marines.
iraq: Peat, Jerome (1989).
iraq: They were constructed chiefly of sun-dried bricks, and all that remains of them is the lower part of the walls, decorated with sculpture and paintings, portions of the pavements, a few indications of the elevation, and some works connected with the drainage.
iraq: During the Parthian and Sasanian periods, Ctesiphon gradually merged with Seleucia to form a cosmopolitan metropolis that served as the Sasanian capital, later known as al-Madāʾin.
iraq: Kennedy, Hugh (2005).
iraq: Access to potable water diverges among governorates and between urban and rural areas.
iraq: According to a new report from the Arab Investment & Export Credit Guarantee Corporation ("Dhaman"), the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Iraq, and Algeria, the leading contributors to the Arab economy and 72% of the region's GDP.
iraq: Faisal worked to establish key state institutions and fostered a sense of national identity.
iraq: Upon his coronation as king, Faisal focused on laying foundation of Iraq.
iraq: Water flows in the Tigris and Euphrates are down between 30 and 40%.
iraq: Iraq was also affected by the Iraqi Kurdish Civil War from 1994 to 1997.
iraq: Lawrence, decided that Faisal, now exiled in London, would become the king of Iraq.
iraq: The first Iraqi–Kurdish war ended in 1970, after which a peace treaty was signed between Saddam and Barzani, granting autonomy to Kurds.
iraq: The post-2003 war has displaced much of the remaining Christian community from their homeland as a result of ethnic and religious persecution at the hands of Islamic extremists.
iraq: According to some historians, the term historically included the plain south of the Hamrin Mountains and did not include the northernmost and westernmost parts of the modern territory of Iraq.
iraq: Officially, healthcare is free in Iraq.
iraq: Savory, Roger M.
iraq: Cahen, Claude (2012).
iraq: After the Battle of Karbala in 680, Iraq became the primary locus of Alid political opposition, a legacy that the Abbasid Caliphate later mobilized when establishing their rule from Iraq.
iraq: Faisal's reign was marked by his efforts to balance the pressures of external influence and internal demands for sovereignty.
iraq: Even though the Fatwa specifically instructed Iraqis to join the official Armed Forces of the country (such as the Army or the Police), it nevertheless resulted in the creation of the Popular Mobilisation Forces.
iraq: In 1973, Iraq participated in the Yom Kippur War against Israel, alongside Syria and Egypt.
iraq: From Samarkhand to Sardis: A New Approach to the Seleucid Empire.
iraq: The UN High Commission for Refugees has estimated that nearly two million Iraqis fled the country after the multinational invasion of Iraq in 2003.
iraq: The dispersion of native Iraqis to other countries is known as the Iraqi diaspora.
iraq: The country has been in a prolonged drought since 2020 and experienced its second-driest season in the past four decades in 2021.
iraq: An Arabic folk etymology for the name is "deeply rooted, well-watered; fertile".
iraq: Article 1 of Civil Code also identifies Islamic law as a formal source of law.
iraq: Repetition rates have reached almost 17%, causing a loss of approximately 20% of education funding in 2014–2015.
iraq: Sites from Iraq's ancient past are numerous and many that are close to large cities have been excavated.
iraq: Iraq is also seeking to deepen its ties with the Gulf Cooperation Council countries.
iraq: BP and China National Petroleum Corporation won a deal to develop Rumaila, the largest oil field in Iraq.
iraq: Human rights in Islamic State-controlled territory have been recorded as highly violated.
iraq: Encyclopaedia Iranica.
iraq: Encyclopaedia Iranica Foundation.
iraq: This project falls under the government's plan and strategy to establish new residential cities outside city centres, aiming to alleviate the urban housing crisis.
iraq: The End of the Jihād State: The Reign of Hishām Ibn ʿAbd al-Malik and the Collapse of the Umayyads.
iraq: On 5 January 2020, the Iraqi parliament voted for a resolution that urges the government to work on expelling US troops from Iraq.
iraq: However, in 2023, Mohammed Shia al-Sudani announced that government was working on a wider "Iraqi vision for climate action".
iraq: Although many infrastructure projects had already begun, at the end of 2013 Iraq had a housing crisis.
iraq: Iraq was home to the second television station in the Middle East, which began during the 1950s.
iraq: Another possible etymology for the name is from the Middle Persian word erāg, meaning "lowlands".
iraq: The center runs Junior Staff and Senior Staff Officer Courses designed for first lieutenants to majors.
iraq: ISBN 0-226-34683-8.
iraq: Dropout rates range from 1.5% to 2.5%, with girls being affected more due to economic or family reasons.
iraq: Iraq is known primarily for its rich maqam heritage which has been passed down orally by the masters of the maqam in an unbroken chain of transmission leading up to the present.
iraq: Lunde, Paul; Stone, Caroline (eds.).
iraq: UNICEF found that funding has been wasted, resulting in increasing dropout and repetition rates.
iraq: Iraq had no Sharia courts but civil courts used Sharia for issues of personal status including marriage and divorce.
iraq: During the medieval period, there was a region called ʿIrāq ʿArabī ("Arabian Iraq") for Mesopotamia and ʿIrāq ʿAjamī ("Persian Iraq"), for the region now situated in Central and Western Iran.
iraq: The UN Refugee agency estimated in 2021 that 1.1 million were displaced within the country.
iraq: In Derks, Ton; Roymans, Nico (eds.).
iraq: In the decades after the conquest, the Rashidun caliph Ali ibn Abi Talib strengthened Iraq's political importance by transferring the seat of the caliphate from Medina to Kufa.
iraq: It is also popular for its agriculture and tourism.
iraq: Public sector employment accounted for nearly 60% of full-time employment in 2011.
iraq: Later, the Ba'ath Party took power in 1968, establishing a one-party state under Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr and later Saddam Hussein, who presided over war against Iran from 1980 to 1988 and then invaded Kuwait in 1990.
iraq: Babylon has seen major recent restoration; known for its famous Ziggurat (the inspiration for the Biblical Tower of Babel), the Hanging Gardens (one of the Seven Wonders of the World), and the Ishtar Gate, making it a prime destination.
iraq: International NGOs have been targeted and during the first 5 years, 94 aid workers were killed, 248 injured, 24 arrested or detained and 89 kidnapped or abducted.
iraq: London & New York: Routledge.
iraq: Two major rivers, the Tigris and Euphrates, run south through Iraq and into the Shatt al-Arab, thence the Persian Gulf.
iraq: The main languages spoken in Iraq are Mesopotamian Arabic and Kurdish, followed by the Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman dialect of Turkish, and the Neo-Aramaic languages (specifically Chaldean and Assyrian dialects).
iraq: Similarly with other countries of Western Asia, chicken and especially lamb are the favourite meats.
iraq: SUNY Press.
iraq: Iran–Iraq relations have flourished since 2005 by the exchange of high-level visits.
iraq: Cambridge University Press.
iraq: "Cyrus "King of Lands," Cambyses "King of Babylon": The Disputed Co-Regency".
iraq: "ʿUḳaylids".
iraq: However, on 14 July 2014, as sectarian strife had taken hold, Kurdistan Regional Government forces seized control of the Bai Hassan and Kirkuk oilfields in the north of the country, taking them from Iraq's control.
iraq: However, years of wars, conflicts, and instability have left a deep impact of healthcare, just like other sectors of Iraq.
iraq: Oil was nationalised in 1972 and its revenue was spent on government development projects.
iraq: In addition, the estimate claims that other minorities form 5% of the country's population, including the Turkmen/Turcoman, Assyrians, Yezidis, Shabak, Kaka'i, Bedouins, Roma, Circassians, Mandaeans, and Persians.
iraq: As of 2021, the oil sector provided about 92% of foreign exchange earnings.
iraq: doi:10.1017/CHOL9780521200929.006.
iraq: On 16 July 1979, Saddam acceded to the presidency and chairmanship of the Revolutionary Command Council, Iraq's then supreme executive body.
iraq: The country is known for its poets, architects, painters and sculptors, who are among the best in the region, some of them being world-class.
iraq: At the height of the Abbasid period, in the late 12th century, a stylistic movement of manuscript illustration and calligraphy emerged.
iraq: JSTOR 609169.
iraq: After 2003, fear among the Jewish community increased, leading to their further decline.
iraq: According to the International Fund for Agricultural Development, Iraq is an oil-rich upper-middle-income country.
iraq: The Iraq Football Association is the governing body of football in Iraq, controlling the Iraq national football team and the Iraq Stars League.
iraq: The United States significantly reduced its military presence in Iraq after the defeat of ISIS.
iraq: Babylonian economic traditions persisted during this period, including the continued use of the silver shekel.
iraq: There are numerous historic mosques in Baghdad and Basra, old churches in Mosul and synagogues in Baghdad.
iraq: A Companion to the Hellenistic World.
iraq: After the 11 September 2001 attacks, U.S.
iraq: "ʿAbbāsids".
iraq: Prior to the middle of the 19th century, the term Eyraca Arabica was commonly used to describe Iraq.
iraq: The Asiatic lion, in the present-day extinct in the region, has remained a prominent symbol of the country throughout history.
iraq: This period of decentralized rule in Iraq ended with the rise of the Seljuk Empire, whose capture of Baghdad in 1055 ended Buyid dominance and left the Abbasid caliphs as largely ceremonial figures under Seljuk rule.
iraq: Since independence in 1932 after the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in World War I, Iraq has experienced spells of significant economic and military growth alongside periods of instability and conflict.
iraq: In 2004, the CPA chief executive L.
iraq: The war in Iraq has resulted in between 151,000 and 1.2 million Iraqis being killed.
iraq: Because of their late accession, Iraq is the only State Party exempt from the existing timeline for destruction of their chemical weapons.
iraq: ISBN 978-0-521-20092-9.
iraq: In retaliation, the government-coordinated Anfal campaign led to the killing of 50,000–100,000 civilians.
iraq: After the end of the Iraq War, Iraq sought and strengthened regional economic cooperation and improved relations with neighbouring countries.
iraq: Prior to the 2003 invasion, Iraq's centrally planned economy prohibited the foreign ownership of businesses, ran most large industries as state-owned enterprises, and imposed large tariffs to keep the foreign goods out.
iraq: Before 1990 and later 2003, Iraq already had an advanced and successful education system.
iraq: According to experts, the project will "accelerate Iraq's path to energy self-sufficiency and advance Iraq's collective climate change objectives".
iraq: The Australian contingent mentors the Iraqi School of Infantry, where the Iraqi Security Forces are trained.
iraq: Saddam sought to achieve stability between Iraq's ethnic and religious groups.
iraq: During the uprisings, the US, UK, Turkey and France, claiming authority under UNSC Resolution 688, established the Iraqi no-fly zones to protect Kurdish population from attacks and autonomy was given to Kurds.
iraq: Saddam reconstructed part of Babylon, one of the world's earliest cities, using bricks inscribed with his name to associate himself with the region's past glories.
iraq: The history of Mesopotamia extends back to the Lower Paleolithic period, with significant developments continuing through the establishment of the Caliphate in the late 7th century AD, after which the region became known as Iraq.
iraq: The Abbasid Dynasty developed in the Abbasid Caliphate between 750 and 945, primarily in its heartland of Mesopotamia.
iraq: ISBN 978-0521042512.
iraq: In southern Iraq, there is a community of Iraqis of African descent, a legacy of the slavery practised in the Islamic Caliphate beginning before the Zanj Rebellion of the 9th century, and Basra's role as a key port.
iraq: The railway infrastructure consists of 2,405 km (1,494 mi) of track, 109 stations, 31 locomotives and 1,685 units of rolling stock.
iraq: The Mesopotamian marches in the middle and south are home to approximately 50 species of birds, and rare species of fish.
iraq: After the end of the war in 1991, Iraqi Kurds and Shi'ite Muslims in northern and southern Iraq led several uprisings against Saddam's regime, but these were repressed.
iraq: Iraq's culture has a deep heritage that extends back in time to ancient Mesopotamian culture.
iraq: 41 (2): 199–216.
iraq: The Iraqi armed forces, supported by the US-led coalition, as well as the Popular Mobilisation Forces, Peshmerga and other allied anti-ISIS militias then initiated a counter-offensive to retake and liberate ISIS-held territory.
iraq: Ethnic Constructs in Antiquity: The Role of Power and Tradition.
iraq: Shia Muslims are mostly concentrated in southern Iraq and in parts of north region and Baghdad.
iraq: Although decriminalised, homosexuality remains stigmatised in Iraqi society.
iraq: Additionally, the Iraqi Prime Minister announced that the Iraq Development Fund will soon collaborate with the private sector to build 400 more schools, addressing the current shortage of over 8,000 schools in the country.
iraq: It is home to all of Iraq's six ports — Abu Flous Port, Al Başrah Oil Terminal, Grand Faw Port, Khor Al Amaya Oil Terminal, Khor Al Zubair Port, Port of Basra and Umm Qasr Port.
iraq: Under the two-time Ottoman Viceroy, Namık Pasha, Baghdad's authority was expanded through military and administrative reforms.
iraq: Bulgur wheat is used in many dishes, having been a staple in the country since the days of the Ancient Assyrians.
iraq: Iraq's economy is dominated by the oil sector, which has traditionally provided about 95% of foreign exchange earnings.
iraq: Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani has sought to normalise relations with Syria in order to expand cooperation.
iraq: "The Byzantine Concept of "Syria" as Arab Empire and Its Ancient Roots".
iraq: Iraq's native population is predominantly Arab, but also includes other ethnic groups such as Kurds, Turkmens, Assyrians, Yazidis, Shabaks, Armenians, Mandaeans, Circassians, and Kawliya.
iraq: In 2020, the sitting prime minister Adil Abdul Mahdi resigned in the face of popular demand.
iraq: Under the British, tensions were rising as locals increasingly resisted foreign control.
iraq: In the same year, Iraq and TotalEnergies signed a $27 billion energy deal that aims to increase oil production and boost the country's capacity to produce energy with four oil, gas and renewables projects.
iraq: The roadway also connect Iraq to neighbouring countries of Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
iraq: The war started on 2 May, and the British, together with loyal Assyrian Levies, defeated the forces of Al-Gaylani, forcing an armistice on 31 May.
iraq: The Iraqi Penal Code is the statutory law of Iraq.
iraq: The country covers an area of 438,317 square kilometres (169,235 sq mi) and has a population of over 46 million, making it the 58th largest country by area and the 31st most populous in the world.
iraq: However, the rapid increase in primary education students has strained the system.
iraq: In addition, the Neo-Aramaic languages use the Syriac script.
iraq: The resolution was passed two days after a US drone strike that killed Iranian Major General Qasem Soleimani of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, commander of the Quds Force.
iraq: Arabic and Kurdish are the official languages of Iraq, while Assyrian (Suret), Turkmen and Mandaic are spoken regionally.
iraq: Water flows in the Tigris and Euphrates were down 30-40% in 2023.
iraq: Rainfall during the summer is rare, except in northern parts of the country.
iraq: Its key impetus was House of Lords member and trade expert Lady Nicholson.
iraq: Blankinship, Khalid Yahya (1994).
iraq: In 2011, nearly 3 million Iraqis had been displaced, with 1.3 million within Iraq and 1.6 million in neighbouring countries, mainly Jordan and Syria.
iraq: Iraqis are ethnically diverse; mostly Iraqi Arabs, as well as Kurds, Turkmens, Yazidis, Assyrians, Armenians, Doms, and Shabaks.
iraq: Iraq is administratively divided into subnational federal regions, governorates, districts and subdistricts with jurisdiction over various matters as defined by law.
iraq: Edinburgh University Press.
iraq: Around 20,000 Marsh Arabs live in southern Iraq.
iraq: President George W.
iraq: The oil export industry, which dominates the Iraqi economy, generates little employment.
iraq: ISSN 1573-3912.
iraq: In February 2025, the Iraq Development Fund had gained $7bn in foreign direct investments, and signed Memoranda of Understanding with a number of countries including the United Kingdom and Japan.
iraq: It is the most populous country in the Arabian Plate.
iraq: A majority of these structures were built after the 1991 Gulf War, when Iraq was put under sanctions by the United Nations.
iraq: The US-created Coalition Provisional Authority enforced economic and political policies on Iraq that have created the current state system of the country, which depends on widespread corruption and patronage networks.
iraq: In 2008, Al Jazeera reported $13 billion of Iraqi oil revenues in American care was improperly accounted for, of which $2.6 billion is totally unaccounted for.
iraq: The 2021 estimate of the total Iraqi population is 43,533,592.
iraq: Yarshater, Ehsan, ed.
iraq: In addition, Iraq will plant 5 million trees across the country and will create green belts around cities to act as windbreaks against dust storms.
iraq: Iraq's population was estimated to be 2 million in 1878.
iraq: Iraqi Christians are predominantly native Assyrians belonging to the Ancient Church of the East, Assyrian Church of the East, Chaldean Catholic Church, Syriac Catholic Church and Syriac Orthodox Church.
iraq: Other smaller minority languages include Mandaic, Shabaki, Armenian, Circassian and Persian.
iraq: The governorates are divided into districts (or Arabic: aqdhiyah, singular qadhā), which are further divided into sub-districts (or Arabic: nawāḥī, singular nāhiyah).
iraq: Iraq's territory also includes the heartlands of the Akkadian, Neo-Sumerian, Babylonian, Neo-Assyrian, and Neo-Babylonian empires, which dominated Mesopotamia and much of the Ancient Near East during the Bronze and Iron Ages.
iraq: Iraq has multiple and diverse biomes which include the mountainous region in the north to the wet marshlands along the Euphrates and Tigris rivers, while western part of the country comprises mainly desert and some semi-arid regions.
iraq: Sherwin-White, Susan; Kuhrt, Amélie (1993).
iraq: (2007) [1980].
iraq: Many of the roads were constructed in the late 1970s and early 1980s and were designed with a 20-year lifespan.
iraq: What followed, was a large scale offensive by ISIS in Mosul, which marked the beginning of the rapid territorial expansion of the group, initiating full-scale war in Iraq.
iraq: 16 (2): 271–97.
iraq: On 4 November 2019, more than 100 Australian Defence Force personnel left Darwin for the 10th rotation of Task Group Taji, based north of Baghdad.
iraq: When Baghdad Ruled the Muslim World: The Rise and Fall of Islam's Greatest Dynasty.
iraq: In 2024, Mohammed Shia' al-Sudani officially inaugurated Shaab General Hospital, Baghdad's first new general hospital in nearly 40 years.
iraq: By 2015–2016, around 9.2 million children were attending school, with a steady annual increase of 4.1% in enrollment rates.
iraq: However, efforts have been made to reopen closed schools, with success seen in Mosul, where over 380,000 children are back in school.
iraq: Since the implementation of the MDGs, education has shown improvement in Iraq.
iraq: Since then traffic has been a serious issue, specially in Baghdad.
iraq: After the establishment of Israel in 1948, Jews emigrated, fleeing persecution in Iraq, while 100,000 of them remained.
iraq: Following the conquest, Iraq emerged as politically and culturally distinct from Syria, a division noted by Byzantine authors such as Theophanes, who referred to their inhabitants respectively as “Herakites” and “Isamites”.
iraq: ISBN 978-0-7103-0246-5.
iraq: Mesopotamian legacy went on to influence and shape the civilisations of the Old World in different ways such as inventing writing system, mathematics, time, calendar, astrology and the law code.
iraq: However, contemporary medieval definitions of Iraq's extent varied.
iraq: A statue of Saddam was toppled in Baghdad, symbolising the end of his rule.
iraq: ISBN 978-0-520-08183-3.
iraq: Late Achaemenid and Hellenistic Babylon.
iraq: The Sumerian literature was unique because it does not belong to any known linguistic root.
iraq: Corruption remains endemic throughout Iraqi governance while the United States-endorsed sectarian political system has driven increased levels of violent terrorism and sectarian conflicts.
iraq: Iraq, officially the Republic of Iraq, is a country in West Asia.
iraq: During the subsequent Anglo-Iraqi War, the United Kingdom invaded Iraq for fear that the government might cut oil supplies to Western nations because of its links to the Axis powers.
iraq: The deal was inked by the transportation ministers from each country.
iraq: Qasim claimed Kuwait as part of Iraq, when the former was granted independence in 1961.
iraq: Iraq was of the first countries along with Egypt, to adopt mall culture in the Arab world and the Middle East.
iraq: Iraq was conquered by Sultan Suleiman I in 1534 and became part of the Ottoman Empire.
iraq: Football is the most popular sport in Iraq.
iraq: Basketball, swimming, weightlifting, bodybuilding, boxing, kick boxing and tennis are also popular sports.
iraq: JSTOR 4200514.
iraq: Between 2001 and 2003, the Kurdistan Regional Government and Ansar al-Islam engaged in conflict, which would merge with the upcoming war.
iraq: Lukonin, V.G.
iraq: Untimely, he died from a heart attack on 8 September 1933, leaving his son Ghazi to inherit the throne.
iraq: It remained buried until 1845, when Botta and Layard discovered the ruins of the Assyrian cities.
iraq: There are several suggested origins for the name.
iraq: van der Spek, R.J.
iraq: An anti-British rebellion erupted across the country, beginning with Baghdad.
iraq: Iraq is highly vulnerable to climate change.
iraq: Iraqi corals are some of the most extreme heat-tolerant as the seawater in this area ranges between 14 and 34 °C.
iraq: Al Başrah Oil Terminal is a trans-shipment facility from the pipelines to the tankers and uses supertankers.
iraq: Iraq is also home to two of the holiest places among the Shias – Najaf and Karbala.
iraq: doi:10.22425/jul.2004.5.1.1.
iraq: Iraq remained under Ottoman control until the First World War, when the British launched the Mesopotamian campaign.
iraq: The system of government is composed of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches, as well as numerous independent commissions.
iraq: Oil fields contracted include the "super-giant" Majnoon oil field, Halfaya Field, West Qurna Field and Rumaila Field.
iraq: According to International IDEA's Global State of Democracy (GSoD) Indices and Democracy Tracker, Iraq performs in the low to mid-range on overall democratic measures, with particular weaknesses in political equality, including economic equality and social group equality.
iraq: The live theatre scene received a boost during the 1990s when UN sanctions limited the import of foreign films.
iraq: Dandamayev, Muhammad A.
iraq: This resolution will also signify ending an agreement with Washington to station troops in Iraq as Iran vows to retaliate after the killing.
iraq: Iraq has a modern network of motorways.
iraq: From the tenth century onward, Iraq entered a period of political fragmentation as effective power shifted from the Abbasid caliphs to regional dynasties.
iraq: However, Australia's contribution was reduced from 250 to 120 ADF personnel, which along with New Zealand had trained over 45,000 ISF members before that.
iraq: In 1981, Israel destroyed a nuclear reactor of Iraq.
iraq: One of which was the Epic of Gilgamesh, which is regarded as the earliest surviving notable literature.
iraq: Morony, Michael G.
iraq: In 1958, these tensions culminated in a military coup, inspired by the revolutionary wave sweeping across the Arab world, particularly the 1952 Egyptian revolution.
iraq: This is combined with few businesses and households who are fully environmentally aware and legally compliant however the large lakes, as pictured, alleviate supply relative to many comparators in Western Asia beset by more regular drought.
iraq: Subsequently, the diaspora seemed to be returning, as security improved; the Iraqi government claimed that 46,000 refugees returned to their homes in October 2007 alone.
iraq: Baghdad condemned the seizure and threatened "dire consequences" if the fields were not returned.
iraq: Today the cuisine of Iraq reflects this rich inheritance as well as strong influences from the culinary traditions of neighbouring Turkey, Iran and the Greater Syria area.
iraq: The Shia–Sunni civil war took place from 2006 to 2008.
iraq: In 2024, Iraq experienced unprecedented rainfall that —according to the Ministry of Water Resources— boosted Iraq's strategic water reserves by 10%, significantly easing the drought crisis.
iraq: S2CID 154352923.
iraq: The Iraq oil law, a proposed piece of legislation submitted to the Council of Representatives of Iraq in 2007, has failed to gain approval due to disagreements among Iraq's various political blocs.
iraq: By 1932, Iraq gained formal independence, becoming a member of the League of Nations.
iraq: Spanning 437,072 km2 (168,754 mi2), it is the 58th-largest country in the world.
iraq: Iraq is home to diverse ethnic groups that have each contributed in different ways to the country's long and rich heritage.
iraq: Much water is discarded during treatment, due to much outmoded equipment, raising energy burden and reducing supply.
iraq: Za'arus formed the official ensemble for the Iraqi radio station and were responsible for introducing the cello and ney into the traditional ensemble.
iraq: Further north, but below the main headwaters only, the country easily encompasses the Mesopotamian Alluvial Plain.
iraq: Half the country's farmland is at risk of desertification.
iraq: In combination with decreased oil prices, the government budget deficit is near 25% of GDP as of 2016.
iraq: Since the situation eased, Iraq reengaged with its Arab neighbours while maintaining relations with Iran in an attempt to position Iraq as a country that would not exacerbate the security concerns of its neighbours and seeking a pragmatic balance in foreign relations.
iraq: The principal remains are those of Khorsabad, 16 km (10 mi) northeast of Mosul; of Nimroud, supposed to be the ancient Calah; and of Kouyunjik, in all probability the ancient Nineveh.
iraq: Jim Cramer's 20 October 2009 endorsement of the Iraqi dinar on CNBC has further piqued interest in the investment.
iraq: Despite historically poor relations, some progress has been made, and Iraq elected its first Kurdish president, Jalal Talabani, in 2005.
iraq: doi:10.2307/1359915.
iraq: King Ghazi's reign was brief and turbulent, as Iraq was impacted by numerous coup attempts.
iraq: Lewis, Bernard (2012).
iraq: (15 December 1988).
iraq: The official currency in Iraq is the Iraqi dinar.
iraq: The debt relief was to be implemented in three stages: two of 30% each and one of 20%.
iraq: The 246-bed facility, which was a long-delayed project was completed under a collaborative management model, which boasts state-of-the-art infrastructure, with advanced medical equipment, and a full range of healthcare services according to Sudani.
iraq: Iraq's modern history began in the wake of World War I, as the region emerged from the collapse of the Ottoman Empire.
iraq: The need of a new strategy became clear.
iraq: Enrollment numbers nearly doubled from 2000 to 2012, reaching six million students.
iraq: Malden, Massachusetts: Blackwell Publishing.
iraq: In October 2011, the Turkish parliament renewed a law that gives Turkish forces the ability to pursue rebels over the border in Iraq.
iraq: An older estimate in 2015 by the CIA World Factbook that reported between 90 and 95% of Iraqis followed Islam, with 61–64% being Shia and 29–34% being Sunni.
iraq: The term Sawad was also used in early Islamic times for the region of the alluvial plain of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers.
iraq: Much of Iraq has a hot arid climate with subtropical influence.
iraq: doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_SIM_1338.
iraq: On 2018, the UN estimated that oil accounts for 99% of Iraq's revenue.
iraq: A number of stories in One Thousand and One Nights feature famous Abbasid figures.
iraq: Nearly 40% of Iraq "has been overtaken by blowing desert sands that claim tens of thousands of acres of arable land every year".
iraq: Nineveh, a rival to Babylon, has also seen significant restoration and reconstruction.
iraq: Baghdad, home to over 8 million people, is the capital city and the largest in the country.
iraq: Rocky deserts cover about 40 percent of Iraq.
iraq: The Arabic pronunciation is [ʕiˈrɑːq].
iraq: In 1995 Iraq introduced Sharia punishment for certain types of criminal offences.
iraq: In 2022, and after more than 30 years after the UN Compensation Commission was created to ensure restitution for Kuwait following the invasion of 1990, the reparations body announced that Iraq has paid a total of $52.4 billion in war reparations to Kuwait.
iraq: Located within the Middle East, it is bordered by Saudi Arabia to the south, Turkey to the north, Iran to the east, the Persian Gulf and Kuwait to the southeast, Jordan to the southwest, and Syria to the west.
iraq: During that time, the government of Iraq, headed by Haider al-Abadi requested the international community to assist Iraq against ISIS, resulting in the creation of the American-led Coalition against ISIS.
iraq: Da Capo Press.
iraq: "Political, Social and Administrative Institutions: Taxes and Trade".
iraq: Bosworth, C.
iraq: doi:10.1017/s0041977x00105981.
iraq: Al-Faw Palace is currently occupied by the American University of Iraq.
iraq: The lack of development in other sectors has resulted in 18%–30% unemployed and a per capita GDP of $4,812.
iraq: There is also a significant population of Armenian Christians in Iraq who had fled Turkey during the Armenian genocide.
iraq: He died in a motor vehicle accident in 1939, passing the throne to his young son, Faisal II, who ascended to the throne at just 3 years old.
iraq: At the nightclubs of Baghdad, ensembles consisted of oud, qanun and two percussionists, while the same format with a ney and cello were used on the radio.
iraq: "BABYLONIA i.
iraq: However, the government gradually came under the control of Saddam Hussein, Iraq's then vice-president.
iraq: Sudani said Iraq was "moving forward to conclude contracts for constructing renewable energy power plants to provide one-third of our electricity demand by 2030".
iraq: In November 2002 the UN Security Council passed resolution 1441.
iraq: Since the new Constitution of Iraq was approved in 2005, both Arabic and Kurdish are recognised (Article 4) as official languages of Iraq, while three other languages, Turkmen, Syriac and Armenian, are also recognised as minority languages.
iraq: The tenth-century geographer al-Maqdisi, defending his use of "Iraq" instead of the ancient name "Babylonia", noted that it was the only name used in his time.
iraq: The Meadows of Gold.
iraq: Abbasid literary culture in Iraq reflected long-term Mesopotamian narrative continuities, appearing across Muslim and Jewish texts despite religious and political change.
iraq: Climate change is driving wide-scale droughts while water reserves are rapidly depleting.
iraq: In 2020, the Association of Religion Data Archives (ARDA) estimated that 97% Iraqis followed Islam, with 61% being Shia and 35% Sunni.
iraq: The government is constructing international airports for Karbala and Nasiriyah.
iraq: They also deal with religious teachings, moral advice, astrology, legislation, and history.
iraq: Green, Tamara M.
iraq: Draining of the Mesopotamian Marshes, during the time of Saddam's government, caused there a significant drop in biological life.
iraq: Kröger, Jens (15 December 1993).
iraq: Iraq is home to seven terrestrial ecoregions: Zagros Mountains forest steppe, Middle East steppe, Mesopotamian Marshes, Eastern Mediterranean conifer-sclerophyllous-broadleaf forests, Arabian Desert, Mesopotamian shrub desert, and South Iran Nubo-Sindian desert and semi-desert.
iraq: Meanwhile, in an attempt to counter US influence, Khomeinist anti-US militias prompted Iranian intervention, which resulted in the latter expanding its influence.
iraq: Iraq has the northwestern end of the Zagros mountain range and the eastern part of the Syrian Desert.
iraq: On 28 September 2020, Washington made preparations to withdraw diplomats from Iraq, as a result of Iranian-backed militias firing rockets at the American Embassy in Baghdad.
iraq: According to the Overseas Development Institute, international NGOs face challenges in carrying out their mission, leaving their assistance "piecemeal and largely conducted undercover, hindered by insecurity, a lack of coordinated funding, limited operational capacity and patchy information".
iraq: Archaeological evidence from Uruk indicates that Babylonian religious institutions and architectural traditions continued to function during this period.
iraq: Iraq lies between latitudes 29° and 38° N, and longitudes 39° and 49° E (a small area lies west of 39°).
iraq: JSTOR 1359915.
iraq: In December 2017, when ISIS had lost all its territory in Iraq, the government declared victory.
iraq: Following months of cross-border raids with Iran, Saddam declared war on Iran in September 1980, initiating the Iran–Iraq War.
iraq: A conflict occurred in December 2009, when Iraq accused Iran of seizing an oil well on the border.
iraq: Arabic and Kurdish are written with versions of the Arabic script.
iraq: The capitals of Iranic empires shifted toward Mesopotamia, from Susa to Ctesiphon.
iraq: Following Baghdad's destruction by the Mongols in 1258, Iraq came under successive empires, and from the 16th until the 20th century, it was governed within the Ottoman system as a defined region known administratively as Ottoman Iraq.
iraq: In 1974, the second Iraqi–Kurdish war began and border clashes with Iran took place on Shatt al-Arab.
iraq: On 20 March 2003, the US-led coalition invaded Iraq, as part of the global war on terror.
iraq: He was admired for his diplomatic skill and his commitment to steering Iraq towards self-determination.
iraq: Winter temperatures infrequently exceed 15 °C (59.0 °F) with maxima roughly 5 to 10 °C (41.0 to 50.0 °F) and night-time lows 1 to 5 °C (33.8 to 41.0 °F).
iraq: The new regime recognised Kuwait's independence.
iraq: Iran supported Kurdish militants.
iraq: Amsterdam University Press.
iraq: Iraqi Republic Railways is the responsible body for railway transportation in Iraq.
iraq: Following the founding of Seleucia, the population of Babylon was resettled to it.
iraq: Administratively, Iraq was organised into the provinces of Baghdad, Basra, Mosul, and Shahrizor, which the Ottomans collectively referred to as Hıtta-i Irakiyye (“the Iraq region”).
iraq: doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_COM_0763.
iraq: University of Chicago Press: 265–270.
iraq: Iraq was one of the founding members of OPEC.
iraq: After the start of the Syrian Civil War in 2011, numerous Iraqis in Syria returned to their native country.
iraq: This initiative aims to address overcrowding and the issue of triple shifts in schools, which have been exacerbated by the destruction caused by years of conflict.
iraq: After the end of the full state control in 2003, there was a period of significant growth in the broadcast media in Iraq.
iraq: Additionally, according to the 2023 V-Dem Democracy indices Iraq was the third most electoral democratic country in the Middle East.
iraq: During this period, large quantities of opaque glazed pottery were produced in Iraq and exported as mass-produced commercial goods across the Indian Ocean.
iraq: During the war, Saddam extensively used chemical weapons against Iranians.
iraq: Authority within Iraq was exercised by a succession of local dynasties, including the Hamdanids, Buyids, Uqaylids, and Mazyadids, which competed and negotiated for control of Iraqi cities and territories.
iraq: However internal division within Ba'athist factions caused another coup in November, which brought Colonel Abdul Salam Arif to power.
iraq: The officials said that the move was seen as an escalation of American confrontation with Iran.
iraq: Iraq is considered to be a potential location for ecotourism.
iraq: The Iraqi air force is designed to support ground forces with surveillance, reconnaissance and troop lift.
iraq: Alexander intended to make Babylon the capital of his empire, but this plan was abandoned after his death in 323 BCE, with Seleucia established as the imperial capital in Mesopotamia.
iraq: In 2013 Iraq's population reached 35 million amid a post-war population boom.
iraq: "Aramaic as a Lingua Franca During the Persian Empire (538–333 B.C.E.)".
iraq: The initial phase of the [housing] plan began in late 2023, when Al-Sudani laid the foundation stone of Al-Jawahiri city.
iraq: Half of the country's farmland is at risk of desertification.
iraq: Encyclopaedia of Islam, Second Edition.
iraq: On 2 August 1990, the Iraqi forces invaded and annexed Kuwait as its 19th governorate, starting the Gulf War.
iraq: Religions in Iraq are dominantly Abrahamic religions.
iraq: Iraqi security forces are composed of forces serving under the Ministry of Interior (MOI) and the Ministry of Defense (MOD), as well as the Iraqi Counter Terrorism Bureau, reporting directly to the Prime Minister of Iraq, which oversees the Iraqi Special Operations Forces.
iraq: Under Ilkhanid rule, elements of agricultural production and urban life in Iraq gradually recovered, and Iraq remained a populated and economically active region into the late medieval period.
iraq: The north of the country is mostly composed of mountains; the highest point being at 3,611 m (11,847 ft).
iraq: On 17 November 2008, the US and Iraq agreed to a Status of Forces Agreement, as part of the broader Strategic Framework Agreement.
iraq: In modern times, various languages are used in Iraqi literature including Arabic, Neo-Aramaic, Kurdish and Turkish, although the Arabic literature remains the most influential literature.
iraq: The most famous singer of the 1930s–1940s was perhaps Salima Pasha (later Salima Murad).
iraq: On 20 November 2004, the Paris Club of creditor countries agreed to write off 80% ($33 billion) of Iraq's $42 billion debt to Club members.
iraq: Most Iraqis are Muslims, while significant religious minorities include Christians, Jews, Mandaeans, Yarsanis, and Yazidis.
iraq: Iraq has about 104 airports as of 2012.
iraq: Iraq is home to one of the oldest Jewish communities in the Middle East and the first Jewish diaspora.
iraq: The Algiers Agreement signed in 1975 by Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and Saddam resolved the dispute and Iran withdrew support for the Kurds, resulting in their defeat in the war.
iraq: Some of them include Al-Faw Palace, As-Salam Palace and Radwaniyah Palace.
iraq: Although Faisal succeeded in securing greater autonomy for Iraq, British influence remained strong, particularly in the country's oil industry.
iraq: One of his palaces in Basra was turned into a museum, despite it was time when Iraq allied with the US was engaged in war with the ISIS.
iraq: Access to education varies depending on location, and there are disparities between boys and girls.
iraq: It has a coastline measuring 58 km (36 miles) on the northern Persian Gulf.
iraq: The Persians: An Introduction.
iraq: "The Political History of Iran under the Sasanians".
iraq: According to the Constitution of Iraq (Article 4): The Arabic language and the Kurdish language are the two official languages of Iraq.
iraq: In 1948, the Jewish population was estimated at 200,000, although some sources suggest the population may have been even higher.
iraq: LGBT rights in Iraq remain limited.
iraq: Aquatic or semi-aquatic wildlife occurs in and around these, the major lakes are Lake Habbaniyah, Lake Milh, Lake Qadisiyah and Lake Tharthar.
iraq: On 1 April 1941, Rashid Ali al-Gaylani and members of the Golden Square staged a coup d'état and installed a pro-German and pro-Italian government.
iraq: The Venture of Islam, Volume I: The Classical Age of Islam.
iraq: The first 5 new cities will be located in Baghdad, Babylon, Nineveh, Anbar and Karbala, while another 10 new residential cities will be launched in other governorates.
iraq: Broadly flanking this estuary (known as arvandrūd: اروندرود among Iranians) are marshlands, semi-agricultural.
iraq: In Bearman, P.
iraq: ISBN 9781474464628.
iraq: The culture of Iraq or Mesopotamia is one of the world's oldest cultural histories and is considered one of the most influential cultures in the world.
iraq: A federal parliamentary republic, Iraq is considered an emerging middle power.
iraq: As many as 30 cinemas were reported to have been converted to live stages, producing a wide range of comedies and dramatic productions.
iraq: The Iraqi maqam is considered to be the most noble and perfect form of maqam.
iraq: However, it was in the medieval era when Baghdad was the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate that the Iraqi kitchen reached its zenith.
iraq: Another Shia uprising took place from 1979 to 1980, as a followup to the Islamic Revolution in Iran.
iraq: Following the Achaemenid conquest of Babylon in 539 BCE, Mesopotamia remained a core region of the Achaemenid Empire, with its existing population and local institutions continuing in use.
iraq: Ashkouri among others.
iraq: Three decades of war greatly cut the existing water resources management system for several major cities.
iraq: It is estimated that as many as 100,000 people, including many civilians, were killed.
iraq: ISBN 9780306814358.
iraq: An attempt to ban an annual pilgrimage to Karbala in 1977 caused an uprising by Shia Muslims across Iraq.
iraq: One of the main causes for popular discontent in Iraq is the lack of reliable electricity infrastructure and clean water.
iraq: It was founded in 1948, and has been a member of FIFA since 1950 and the Asian Football Confederation since 1971.
iraq: The air force currently has 5,000 personnel.
iraq: Kuwait's refusal to waive Iraq's debt and reducing oil prices pushed Saddam to take military action against it.
iraq: In 1921, the Cairo Conference, led by British officials including Winston Churchill and T.E.
iraq: The sanctions were lifted in 2003 after the US-led invasion removed Saddam Hussein from power, but development of Iraq's oil resources has been hampered by the ongoing conflict.
iraq: Ancient Iraq, or Mesopotamia, was home to many sophisticated and highly advanced civilisations, in all fields of knowledge – including the culinary arts.
iraq: There are more than seven million passenger cars, over million commercial taxis, buses, and trucks in use.
iraq: Basra is the only coastal governorate of Iraq.
iraq: History of Babylonia in the Median and Achaemenid periods".
iraq: Foreign ministers of Iraq and Kuwait have announced that they were working on a definitive agreement on border demarcation.
iraq: Furthermore, Kurdish is now an official language of Iraq alongside Arabic according to Article 4 of the Constitution.
iraq: "Multi-ethnicity and ethnic segregation in Hellenistic Babylon".
iraq: Relations between Iraq and its Kurdish population have been sour in recent history, especially with Saddam Hussein's genocidal campaign against them in the 1980s.
iraq: ISBN 9780791418277.
iraq: Sumer also had advanced canal systems.
iraq: Minorsky, V.
iraq: Reger, Gary (2003).
iraq: During this period, regional rulers exercised authority in Iraq while receiving formal recognition from the Abbasid caliphs in Baghdad.
iraq: Known as the cradle of civilisation, Mesopotamia saw the invention of astrology, mathematics, navigation, timekeeping, writing systems, the wheel, the sailboat, a calendar, and a law code.
iraq: However, the kingdom was short-lived, crushed by local opposition and the military might of France, which had been granted a mandate over Syria.
iraq: In these cities are found fragments of several great buildings which seem to have been palace-temples.
iraq: This period of Turkmen rule ended in 1508 when Shah Ismail I conquered Baghdad and incorporated Iraq into the Safavid Empire.
iraq: Faisal also envisioned infrastructural links between Iraq, Syria, and Jordan, including plans for a railway and an oil pipeline to the Mediterranean.
iraq: Petrie, Cameron A.
iraq: ISBN 9781139456135.
iraq: According to the CIA World Factbook, citing a 1987 Iraqi government estimate, the population of Iraq is 75–80% Arab followed by 15–20% Kurds.
iraq: Saddam Hussein built hundreds of palaces and monuments across the country.
iraq: ISBN 9781317358060.
iraq: Today post-war conflict continues at a lower scale, hampering stability alongside the rising influence of Iran.
iraq: In addition, any region or province may declare other languages official if a majority of the population approves in a general referendum.
iraq: Brigadier General and nationalist Abd al-Karim Qasim led a coup d'état known as the 14 July Revolution in 1958.
iraq: In 2013, South Korean firm Daewoo reached a deal to build Bismayah New City of about 600,000 residents in 100,000 homes.
iraq: The Early Abbasid Caliphate: A Political History (2nd ed.).
iraq: Iraq had developed a centralised free health care system in the 1970s using a hospital based, capital-intensive model of curative care.
iraq: Iraq largely coincides with the ancient region of Mesopotamia, often referred to as the cradle of civilisation.
iraq: One dates to the Sumerian city of Uruk and is thus ultimately of Sumerian origin.
iraq: Iraq emerged as a hashemite monarchy after centuries of Ottoman rule and a period under British administration.
iraq: The 1,200-km project with railway and motorways which will connect the Grand Faw Port, aimed to be the largest port in the Middle East.
iraq: ISBN 978-0-415-32089-4.
iraq: The then war-ravaged country was set to complete 5 percent of the 2.5 million homes it needs to build by 2016 to keep up with demand, confirmed the Minister for Construction and Housing.
iraq: In 2024, the government inaugurated 790 new schools across the country, as part of a framework agreement with China to build 1,000 schools.
iraq: Despite heavy repression, hundreds of deaths, and widespread injuries, the movement remained united around calls for institutional reform and increased accountability.
iraq: Around 40,000 fighters and civilians were killed.
iraq: "Bayt al-Ḥikma".
iraq: The sixth-century poet Adi ibn Zayd, from the Lakhmid court at al-Ḥirah, used the name in a demographic context, speaking of the "people of Iraq" (ahl al-ʿIrāq), and in a geographical sense, referring to the "central area of Iraq" (ṣaḥn al-ʿIrāq).
iraq: doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_COM_0363.
iraq: Notably poets include Jawahiri, Safa Khulusi and Dunya Mikhail.
iraq: In May 2025, Iraqi Ministry of Planning announced that the unemployment rate in Iraq had dropped from 17% in 2022 to 13% in 2025.
iraq: In 1936, Iraq Radio was established with an ensemble made up entirely of Jews, with the exception of the percussion player.
iraq: The declaration enraged many local Shia clerics, and by 2005 the US had relented, allowing a role for sharia in the constitution to help end a stalemate on the draft constitution.
iraq: Silverstein, Adam (2014).
iraq: The right of Iraqis to educate their children in their mother tongue, such as Turkmen, Syriac, and Armenian shall be guaranteed in government educational institutions in accordance with educational guidelines, or in any other language in private educational institutions.
iraq: During his rule, Saddam turned Iraq into a leading centre of higher education.
iraq: In addition, Iraq is an agricultural country.
iraq: "Seleucid Uruk: An Analysis of Ceramic Distribution".
iraq: The 17 July Revolution overthrew Arif and brought the Iraqi Ba'ath Party to power in 1968, with Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr as the president of Iraq.
iraq: Nationwide protests erupted in Iraq in October 2019, demanding systemic reform, and the end of the party-based quota system as well as the disarmament of non-state militias and end to foreign interference.
iraq: The plan would include promoting clean and renewable energy, new irrigation and water treatment projects and reduced industrial gas flaring, he said.
iraq: Limited resources strain the education system, hindering access to education.
iraq: Within its borders lies the ancient land of Sumer, which emerged between 6000 and 5000 BC during the Neolithic Ubaid period.
iraq: Since January 1992, the official name of the state is "Republic of Iraq" (Jumhūriyyat al-ʿIrāq), reaffirmed in the 2005 Constitution.
iraq: Yazidis are mostly concentrated around the Sinjar Mountains.
iraq: Babylonian chronicle fragments record Seleucid rulers engaging with local institutions, while temple authorities, scholarly traditions, and cuneiform writing continued to function during the Seleucid period.
iraq: 77 (1): 33–52.
iraq: Since 2005, the Turkmen/Turkoman have switched from the Arabic script to the Turkish alphabet.
iraq: In 1930, Iraq signed a treaty with Britain that gave the country a measure of political independence while maintaining British control over key aspects, including military presence and oil rights.
iraq: Iraq's armed forces were devastated during the war.
iraq: In terms of administrative divisions, Iraq is currently composed of a single federal region (Arabic: iqlīm ittihādi) and nineteen governorates (Arabic: muhafadhat, singular muhafadhah).
iraq: Iraq has a community of 2,500 Chechens, and some 20,000 Armenians.
iraq: The British unified three former Ottoman provinces—Mosul, Baghdad, and Basra—into the Mandate of Mesopotamia, which became Iraq.
