israel: Destructive earthquakes strike about every 80 years, leading to serious loss of life .
israel: The US has provided $68 billion in military assistance and $32 billion in grants to Israel since 1967, under the Foreign Assistance Act (period beginning 1962), more than any other country for that period until 2003.
israel: On 7 October 2023, Palestinian militant groups from Gaza, led by Hamas, launched a series of coordinated attacks on Israel, leading to the start of the Gaza war.
israel: Individuals born within the country receive birthright citizenship if at least one parent is a citizen.
israel: In February 1947, the British referred the Palestine issue to the newly formed United Nations.
israel: India is the largest customer of the Israeli military equipment, and Israel is the second-largest military partner of India after Russia.
israel: Pork—often called "white meat" in Israel—is produced and consumed despite attempts to ban it; it is forbidden by both Judaism and Islam but is permitted by Christianity and mostly produced in traditionally Christian areas of northern Israel.
israel: Six out of 22 nations in the Arab League have normalised relations with Israel.
israel: Proficiency in core subjects such as mathematics, the Hebrew language, Hebrew and general literature, the English language, history, Biblical scripture and civics is necessary to receive a Bagrut certificate.
israel: Palestinian suicide bombings eventually developed into a recurrent feature of the intifada.
israel: Israel began producing natural gas from its own offshore gas fields in 2004.
israel: The 2024 Freedom House report found Israeli media is "vibrant and free to criticise government policy".
israel: The Israeli Premier League is the country's premier football league, and the Israeli Basketball Premier League is the premier basketball league.
israel: In 1922, the League of Nations granted Britain the Mandate for Palestine under terms which included the Balfour Declaration with its promise to the Jews and with similar provisions regarding the Arab Palestinians.
israel: Intel and Microsoft built their first overseas research and development facilities in Israel, and other high-tech multinational corporations have opened research and development centres in the country.
israel: In the late 19th and early 20th century, the Yishuv's art was dominated by art trends emanating Bezalel.
israel: The election of judges is carried out by a selection committee chaired by the justice minister (currently Yariv Levin).
israel: ^b Israeli citizens only.
israel: The Ministry of Environmental Protection has reported that climate change "will have a decisive impact on all areas of life", particularly for vulnerable populations.
israel: Israel is served by three international airports: Ben Gurion Airport, the country's main hub for international air travel; Ramon Airport; and Haifa Airport.
israel: The situation spiralled into a civil war.
israel: Built in 2011 by the Arava Power Company, the field will produce about 9 gigawatt-hours (32 TJ) of electricity per year, sparing the production of some 125,000 tonnes (123,000 long tons; 138,000 short tons) of carbon dioxide over 20 years.
israel: In 2003, Ilan Ramon became Israel's first astronaut, serving on the fatal mission of Space Shuttle Columbia.
israel: Jews were expelled from the districts surrounding Jerusalem.
israel: The estimated religious affiliation as of 2022 was 73.5% Jewish, 18.1% Muslim, 1.9% Christian, 1.6% Druze, and 4.9% other.
israel: Since the Yom Kippur War, Israel has developed a network of reconnaissance satellites.
israel: Men serve two years and eight months, and women serve two years.
israel: The UK found itself facing a Jewish insurgency over immigration restrictions from 1944, which intensified following the end of the war, and continued conflict with the Arab community over limit levels.
israel: With countries around the world turning away Jewish refugees fleeing the Holocaust, a clandestine movement known as Aliyah Bet was organised to bring Jews to Palestine.
israel: a report on the question of Palestine".
israel: The Achaemenids ruled the region as the province of Yehud Medinata.
israel: Israel has one of the lowest external debts in the developed world, and is a lender in terms of net external debt (assets vs.
israel: Jews of European background were often treated more favourably than Jews from Middle Eastern and North African countries—housing units reserved for the latter were often re-designated for the former, so Jews newly arrived from Arab lands generally ended up staying longer in transit camps.
israel: The most catastrophic known earthquakes occurred in 31 BCE, 363, 749, and 1033 CE, that is every ca.
israel: Diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union were broken in 1967 following the Six-Day War and renewed in 1991.
israel: The Arab League and Arab Higher Committee of Palestine rejected the partition plan on the basis that the partition plan privileged European interests over those of the Palestinians, and indicated that they would reject any other plan of partition.
israel: While stringent construction regulations are in place and recently built structures are earthquake resistant, as of 2007 many public buildings as well as 50,000 residential buildings did not meet the new standards and were "expected to collapse" if exposed to a strong earthquake.
israel: "Institute for Immigration B").
israel: Israel is included in the European Union's European Neighbourhood Policy.
israel: Over one million Russian-speaking immigrants arrived in Israel between 1990 and 2004.
israel: The nation's canonical folk songs are known as "Songs of the Land of Israel".
israel: Kazakhstan also has an economic and strategic partnership with Israel.
israel: The war wound down in August 2006 after the passage of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701; Israeli forces mostly withdrew from Lebanon by October 2006 but continued to occupy the Lebanese portion of Ghajar village.
israel: There are many Israeli grandmasters and Israeli chess players have won a number of youth world championships.
israel: Most Arabs send their children to Arabic-language schools.
israel: The cuisine has adapted elements of the Mizrahi, Sephardi, and Ashkenazi styles of cooking.
israel: Most women are exempt from reserve duty.
israel: Despite the peace treaty between Israel and Egypt, Israel is still widely considered an enemy country among Egyptians.
israel: The Haganah joined Irgun and Lehi in an armed struggle against British rule.
israel: The 1974 Asian Games, held in Tehran, were the last Asian Games in which Israel participated, plagued by Arab countries that refused to compete with Israel.
israel: Sadat and Begin signed the Camp David Accords (1978) and the Egypt–Israel peace treaty (1979).
israel: Avraham Melnikov's The Roaring Lion, David Polus' Alexander Zaid and Ze'ev Ben Zvi's cubist sculpture exemplify some of the different streams in sculpture.
israel: The deficit in slip that has built up since 1033 is sufficient to cause an earthquake of Mw~7.4.
israel: The Israel Museum in Jerusalem is one of Israel's most important cultural institutions, and houses the Dead Sea Scrolls, along with an extensive collection of Judaica and European art.
israel: Sharon was forced to resign.
israel: The Tanzimat reforms were implemented across the Ottoman Empire.
israel: No one has been charged in the killings of at least 1,100 Palestinian civilians by Israeli soldiers and settlers since 2020.
israel: Itzhak Perlman, Pinchas Zukerman and Ofra Haza are among the internationally acclaimed musicians born in Israel.
israel: The Hasmonean civil war ended with the Roman siege of Jerusalem in 63 BCE.
israel: After the Sasanian conquest of Jerusalem and the short-lived Jewish revolt against Heraclius in 614 CE, the Byzantine Empire reconsolidated control of the area in 628.
israel: Israel has no official religion, but the definition of the state as "Jewish and democratic" creates a strong connection with Judaism.
israel: Both the first and second waves of migrants were mainly Orthodox Jews.
israel: In June 2025, Israel launched a renewed series of airstrikes on Iran, targeting Iran's air defence systems, missile launchers, their military leadership, and their nuclear programme, which escalated into a full-scale war.
israel: The Kingdom of Israel was the more prosperous of the two and soon developed into a regional power, with a capital at Samaria; during the Omride dynasty, it controlled Samaria, Galilee, the upper Jordan Valley, the plain of Sharon and large parts of Transjordan.
israel: Particularly since the late 1970s, a fusion cuisine has developed.
israel: A series of laws were passed that discriminated against Jews and Judaism, and Jews were persecuted by both the church and the authorities.
israel: Since Israel's establishment, military expenditure constituted a significant portion of the country's gross domestic product, with peak of 30.3% of GDP in 1975.
israel: The 1949 armistice expanded Israel beyond the UN plan, while no new Arab state was created, leaving Gaza under Egyptian control and the West Bank ruled by Jordan.
israel: The Gaza Strip is considered to be a "foreign territory" under Israeli law.
israel: Although Turkey and Israel did not establish full diplomatic relations until 1991, Turkey has cooperated with the Jewish state since its recognition of Israel in 1949.
israel: In 2011, Israel's water technology industry was worth around $2 billion per year with annual exports of products and services in the tens of millions of dollars.
israel: The Ubeidiya prehistoric site in northern Israel shows the presence of archaic humans around 1.5 million years ago.
israel: An estimated ten per cent of the adult male Palestinian Arab population was killed, wounded, imprisoned, or exiled.
israel: Maccabi Tel Aviv B.C.
israel: By June 2012, approximately 60,000 African migrants had entered Israel.
israel: Ben Gurion handled over 21.1 million passengers in 2023.
israel: The Natufian culture (c.
israel: The Kingdom of Israel was conquered around 720 BCE by the Neo-Assyrian Empire.
israel: The first Arab-led party was established in 1988, and as of 2022, Arab-led parties hold about 10% of seats.
israel: Israeli citizens may not visit Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen without permission from the Ministry of the Interior.
israel: Shavit is a space launch vehicle produced by Israel to launch small satellites into low Earth orbit.
israel: On 15 May 1947, the UN General Assembly resolved that a Special Committee be created "to prepare ...
israel: The Arab League stated the invasion was to restore order and prevent further bloodshed.
israel: On 29 November 1947, the General Assembly adopted Resolution 181 (II).
israel: Mayer Institute for Islamic Art, both in Jerusalem.
israel: In observance of Shabbat, in places where Friday is a work day and the majority of population is Jewish, Friday is a "short day".
israel: Some 12,000 Palestinian Arabs also served in the British military during the war.
israel: Israeli Arabs (including the Arab population of East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights) comprise 21.1% of the population or 1,995,000 people.
israel: Railways stretch across 1,277 kilometres (793 mi) and are operated by government-owned Israel Railways.
israel: The 1977 Knesset elections marked a major turning point in Israeli political history as Menachem Begin's Likud party took control from the Labor Party.
israel: The primary medium of teaching in Israeli universities is Hebrew, but some courses are offered in English.
israel: The religious affiliation of Israeli Jews varies widely: a 2016 survey by Pew Research indicates that 49% self-identify as Hiloni (secular), 29% as Masorti (traditional), 13% as Dati (religious) and 9% as Haredi (ultra-Orthodox).
israel: During the 1950s, Israel was frequently attacked by Palestinian fedayeen, nearly always against civilians, mainly from the Egyptian-occupied Gaza Strip, leading to several Israeli reprisal operations.
israel: Iran withdrew its recognition of Israel during the Islamic Revolution.
israel: This tectonic disposition leads to a relatively high seismic activity.
israel: Jewish intermarriage rates run at over 35% and recent studies suggest that the percentage of Israelis descended from both Sephardi and Ashkenazi Jews increases by 0.5 per cent yearly, with over 25% of schoolchildren now originating from both.
israel: In November 1995, Rabin was assassinated by Yigal Amir, a far-right Jew who opposed the Accords.
israel: Beginning in the 1920s, the local art scene was heavily influenced by modern French art, first introduced by Isaac Frenkel Frenel.
israel: The sovereign territory of Israel (according to the demarcation lines of the 1949 Armistice Agreements and excluding all territories captured by Israel during the 1967 Six-Day War) is approximately 20,770 square kilometres (8,019 sq mi), of which two per cent is water.
israel: In 1956, the UK and France aimed at regaining control of the Suez Canal, which Egypt had nationalised.
israel: Between 2000 and 2008, 1,063 Israelis, 5,517 Palestinians and 64 foreign citizens were killed.
israel: During Benjamin Netanyahu's premiership at the end of the 1990s, Israel agreed to withdraw from Hebron, though this was never ratified or implemented, and he signed the Wye River Memorandum.
israel: The Ofeq programme has made Israel one of seven countries capable of launching such satellites.
israel: As a result of "Enclave law", large portions of Israeli civil law are applied to Israeli settlements and Israeli residents in the occupied territories.
israel: The most popular spectator sports in Israel are association football and basketball.
israel: Maccabi Haifa, Maccabi Tel Aviv, Hapoel Tel Aviv and Beitar Jerusalem are the largest football clubs.
israel: Israeli forces expelled ~300,000 Palestinians from the Gaza Strip and the West Bank.
israel: Several proposals have been raised to adjust the work week with the majority of the world.
israel: Palestinian Israeli filmmakers have made films dealing with the Arab-Israeli conflict and status of Palestinians within Israel, such as Mohammad Bakri's 2002 film Jenin, Jenin and The Syrian Bride.
israel: The entire Jordan Valley segment is thought to have ruptured repeatedly, for instance during the last two major earthquakes along this structure in 749 and 1033.
israel: The war ended on 25 October with Israel repelling Egyptian and Syrian forces but suffering great losses.
israel: Cooperation in the world's longest submarine power cable, the EuroAsia Interconnector, has strengthened Cyprus–Israel relations.
israel: By 2014, desalination programmes provided roughly 35% of the drinking water, and it is expected to supply 70% by 2050.
israel: By law, two copies of all works published in Israel must be deposited in the National Library.
israel: Israel's humanitarian efforts officially began in 1957 with the establishment of Mashav, the Israel's Agency for International Development Cooperation.
israel: The construction of the Second Temple was completed c.
israel: Following a series of PLO attacks in 1982, Israel invaded Lebanon to destroy the PLO bases.
israel: These sentiments were reflected in the early policies of the Israeli government, which largely banned Yiddish theatre and publications.
israel: The UN Security Council has declared the annexation of the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem to be "null and void" and continues to view the territories as occupied.
israel: Krav Maga, a martial art developed by Jewish ghetto defenders, is used by the Israeli security forces and police.
israel: In 332 BCE, Alexander the Great conquered the region as part of his campaign against the Achaemenid Empire.
israel: The State of Israel is divided into six main administrative districts, known as mehozot (Hebrew: מחוזות; sing.: mahoz)—Center, Haifa, Jerusalem, North, South, and Tel Aviv, as well as the Judea and Samaria Area in the West Bank.
israel: The third and highest tier is the Supreme Court, located in Jerusalem; it serves a dual role as the highest court of appeals and the High Court of Justice.
israel: In 2020, 68.7% of 12th graders earned a matriculation certificate.
israel: Israel is governed by a 120-member parliament, known as the Knesset.
israel: The State Education Law (1953) established five types of schools: state secular, state religious, ultra orthodox, communal settlement schools, and Arab schools.
israel: Retention of Israel's population since 1948 is about even or greater, when compared to other countries with mass immigration.
israel: Between 1948 and 1970, approximately 1,150,000 Jewish refugees relocated to Israel.
israel: The Israeli coastal plain on the shores of the Mediterranean is home to most of the population.
israel: By United Nations General Assembly Resolution 273, Israel was admitted as a member of the UN on 11 May 1949.
israel: The country is ranked 35th on the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business index.
israel: Israeli sculpture took inspiration from modern European sculpture as well Mesopotamian, Assyrian and local art.
israel: The rise of Nazism and the increasing persecution of Jews in 1930s Europe led to the Fifth Aliyah, with an influx of a quarter of a million Jews.
israel: The two countries have a defence cooperation agreement and in 2010, the Israeli Air Force hosted Greece's Hellenic Air Force in a joint exercise.
israel: Israel's development of cutting-edge technologies in software, communications and the life sciences have evoked comparisons with Silicon Valley.
israel: Israel has 5,715 buses on scheduled routes, operated by several carriers, the largest and oldest of which is Egged, serving most of the country.
israel: In 2008, a ceasefire between Hamas and Israel collapsed, resulting in the three-week Gaza War.
israel: Continuing the strong theatrical traditions of the Yiddish theatre in Eastern Europe, Israel maintains a vibrant theatre scene.
israel: Israel's Spike missile is one of the most widely exported anti-tank guided missiles in the world.
israel: Arabic is studied in most Jewish schools and is often used on signage and in transport announcements.
israel: The president is head of state, with largely ceremonial duties.
israel: Makhtesh, or "erosion cirques" are unique to the Negev and the Sinai Peninsula, the largest being the Makhtesh Ramon at 38 km in length.
israel: In what Israel described as a response to over a hundred Palestinian rocket attacks on southern Israeli cities, Israel began an operation in the Gaza Strip in 2012, lasting eight days.
israel: In February 2024, the ICJ held public hearings in regards to the legal consequences arising from the policies and practices of Israel in the occupied Palestinian territory including East Jerusalem.
israel: Israel has four major metropolitan areas: Gush Dan (Tel Aviv metropolitan area; population 3,854,000), Jerusalem (population 1,253,900), Haifa (924,400), and Beersheba (377,100).
israel: The 1950 Law of Return grants Jews the unrestricted right to immigrate to Israel and obtain Israeli citizenship.
israel: The revival of the Hebrew language, during which Hebrew was adapted for modern use and gradually became the primary language of Jews in Palestine, also began.
israel: The Second Aliyah (1904–1914) began after the Kishinev pogrom; some 40,000 Jews settled in Palestine, although nearly half left eventually.
israel: Members of many other religious groups, including Buddhists and Hindus, maintain a presence in Israel, albeit in small numbers.
israel: Arab opposition to British rule and Jewish immigration led to the 1920 Palestine riots and the formation of a Jewish militia known as the Haganah as an outgrowth of Hashomer, from which the Irgun and Lehi paramilitaries later split.
israel: Of these, at least 253 species are introduced and non-native.
israel: The Jewish population of Palestine from the Ottoman rule to the beginning of the Zionist movement, known as the Old Yishuv, comprised a minority and fluctuated in size.
israel: The highest temperature of 54 °C (129 °F) was recorded in 1942 in the Tirat Zvi kibbutz.
israel: Israel has not signed the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and maintains a policy of deliberate ambiguity towards its nuclear capabilities.
israel: Mountainous regions can be windy and cold, and areas at elevation of 750 metres (2,460 ft) or more (same elevation as Jerusalem) usually receive at least one snowfall each year.
israel: ^a This number includes East Jerusalem and West Bank areas, which had a total population of 617,580 inhabitants in 2023.
israel: Ottoman attempts to subdue the sheikh failed.
israel: In the ensuing Six-Day War, Israel captured and occupied the West Bank from Jordan, the Gaza Strip and Sinai Peninsula from Egypt, and the Golan Heights from Syria.
israel: Parliamentary elections are scheduled every four years, but unstable coalitions or a no-confidence vote can dissolve a government earlier.
israel: Antisemitism, pogroms and official policies in tsarist Russia led to the emigration of three million Jews in the years between 1882 and 1914, only 1% of whom went to Palestine.
israel: Modern archaeological accounts suggest that the Israelites and their culture branched out of the Canaanite peoples through the development of a distinct monolatristic—and later monotheistic—religion centered on Yahweh.
israel: Another local sign language is the Al-Sayyid Bedouin Sign Language.
israel: By 1966, Israeli-Arab relations had deteriorated to the point of battles taking place between Israeli and Arab forces.
israel: About 30,000 Jews from Palestine served in the British military during the war, of whom around 700 were killed.
israel: On 1 December 1947, the Arab Higher Committee proclaimed a three-day strike, and riots broke out in Jerusalem.
israel: As of April 2025, the population was an estimated 10,094,000.
israel: One of the world's most technologically advanced countries, Israel allocates a larger share of its economy to research and development than any other state and is believed to possess nuclear weapons.
israel: The PLO also recognised Israel's right to exist and pledged an end to terrorism.
israel: Economic data covers the economic territory of Israel, including the Golan Heights, East Jerusalem and Israeli settlements in the West Bank.
israel: It is bordered by Lebanon to the north, Syria to the northeast, Jordan to the east, and Egypt to the southwest.
israel: During the hearings, 24 states and three international organisations said that Israeli practices amount to a breach of the prohibition of apartheid and/or amount to prohibited acts of racial discrimination.
israel: Cultural diversity stems from its diverse population: Jews from various diaspora communities brought their cultural and religious traditions with them.
israel: Under the Ottoman Empire's millet system, Christians and Jews were considered dhimmi ("protected") under Ottoman law in exchange for loyalty to the state and payment of the jizya tax.
israel: Since the Gulf War in 1991, all homes in Israel are required to have a reinforced security room, Merkhav Mugan, impermeable to chemical and biological substances.
israel: Israel had 199 billion bcm of proven reserves of natural gas as of 2016.
israel: Some satellites are ranked among the world's most advanced space systems.
israel: The Maccabiah Games, an Olympic-style event for Jewish and Israeli athletes, has been held every four years since the 1930s.
israel: Colonial Secretary Arthur Creech Jones announced that the British Mandate would end on 15 May 1948, at which point the British would evacuate.
israel: Residents of Israeli settlements in the West Bank are eligible to vote, and after the 2015 election, 10 of the 120 members of the Knesset (8%) were settlers.
israel: Kababir, Haifa's mixed neighbourhood of Jews and Ahmadi Arabs, is one of a few of its kind in the country.
israel: Public holidays are determined by the Jewish holidays, and except for Yom HaAtzma'ut (Independence Day) there are no annual civil holidays.
israel: At the time, the Jews were about a third of the population and owned around 6–7% of the land.
israel: At the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea, it is bounded by Lebanon to the north, Syria to the north-east, Jordan and the West Bank to the east, and Egypt and the Gaza Strip to the south-west.
israel: Israel has a parliamentary system, proportional representation and universal suffrage.
israel: As a result of innovations in reverse osmosis technology, Israel is set to become a net exporter of water.
israel: The official day of rest is Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath.
israel: The name Israel (Hebrew: Yīsrāʾēl; Septuagint Ancient Greek: Ἰσραήλ, Israēl, "El (God) persists/rules") refers to the patriarch Jacob who, according to the Hebrew Bible, was given the name after he successfully wrestled with the Angel of the Lord.
israel: The Rockefeller specialises in archaeological remains from Middle East history.
israel: In the 2024 Press Freedom Index by Reporters Without Borders, Israel was placed 112th of 180 countries, second in the Middle East and North Africa.
israel: The Gaza Strip was occupied by Israel after 1967.
israel: After nearly a year of the Israel–Hezbollah conflict from October 2023 due to Hezbollah shooting rockets at Israel to support Hamas in Gaza, Israel assassinated Hezbollah secretary general Hassan Nasrallah in September 2024.
israel: Israel's Iron Dome anti-missile air defence system gained worldwide acclaim after intercepting hundreds of rockets fired by Palestinian militants from the Gaza Strip.
israel: In the first six days, Israel destroyed the military forces of the PLO in Lebanon and decisively defeated the Syrians.
israel: The following year, Shimon Peres on behalf of Israel and Yasser Arafat for the PLO signed the Oslo Accords, which gave the Palestinian National Authority (PNA) the right to govern parts of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
israel: Israeli music includes Mizrahi and Sephardic music, Hasidic melodies, Greek music, jazz, and pop rock.
israel: Other theatres include Ohel, the Cameri and Gesher.
israel: The only country with a revived official language, Hebrew, the culture of Israel combines Jewish traditions with Arab influences.
israel: In Arab, Christian and Druze schools, the exam on Biblical studies is replaced by an exam on Muslim, Christian or Druze heritage, respectively.
israel: Non-Muslim Ottoman subjects faced geographic and lifestyle restrictions, though these were not always enforced.
israel: Leading exports include machinery, equipment, software, cut diamonds, agricultural products, chemicals, textiles, and apparel; in 2020, exports reached $114 billion.
israel: In 2012, the country ranked third in the number of academic degrees per capita (20 per cent of the population).
israel: Under the Ottoman Empire, the Levant was fairly cosmopolitan, with religious freedoms for Christians, Muslims, and Jews.
israel: As of 2025, Israel is the only UN member state to recognise the Republic of Somaliland.
israel: Notable newspapers include the left-wing Haaretz, centrist Yedioth Ahronoth, and center-right Israel Hayom.
israel: Temperatures vary widely, especially during the winter.
israel: The administrative center of the Baháʼí Faith and the Shrine of the Báb are located at the Baháʼí World Centre in Haifa; the leader of the faith is buried in Acre.
israel: The country has participated in the Eurovision Song Contest nearly every year since 1973, winning it four times and hosting three times.
israel: Mossad LeAliyah Bet was disbanded in 1953.
israel: About 1.9% of the population is Christian, and 1.6% is Druze.
israel: Over the last decade, large numbers of migrant workers from Romania, Thailand, China, Africa, and South America have settled in Israel.
israel: The First Jewish–Roman War (66–73 CE) resulted in the destruction of Jerusalem and the Second Temple and a sizable portion of the population being killed or displaced.
israel: Outside of the Israeli settlements, the West Bank remains under direct Israeli military rule, and Palestinians in the area cannot become Israeli citizens.
israel: Israel started another operation in Gaza following an escalation of rocket attacks by Hamas in July 2014.
israel: The 1882 May Laws increased economic discrimination against Jews, and restricted where they could live.
israel: Eichmann remains the only person executed in Israel by conviction in an Israeli civilian court.
israel: The United Nations Human Rights Council and Israeli human rights organisation Adalah have highlighted that this law does not in fact contain a general provision for equality and non-discrimination.
israel: Education is compulsory between the ages of three and eighteen.
israel: The bill ascribes an undefined "special status" to the Arabic language.
israel: In May 2024, Israel shut down the local offices of Al Jazeera.
israel: Ancestors of the Israelites are thought to have included ancient Semitic-speaking peoples native to this area.
israel: Over 200 hostages were kidnapped and taken to the Gaza Strip.
israel: However, demand for housing exceeds supply, with a shortage of about 200,000 apartments as of 2021.
israel: Israel has a three-tier court system.
israel: Israel has been criticised for engaging in systematic and widespread violations of human rights in the occupied territories, including occupation and war crimes against civilians.
israel: Israel stages an annual international championship and hosted the World Team Chess Championship in 2005.
israel: Over 90% of homes use solar energy for hot water, the highest per capita.
israel: The days which are allocated to working times are Sunday through Thursday (for a five-day workweek), or Friday (for a six-day workweek).
israel: In May 2021, another round of fighting took place in Gaza and Israel, lasting eleven days.
israel: Those of the Second Aliyah who became leaders of the Yishuv in the coming decades believed that the Jewish settler economy should not depend on Arab labour.
israel: The main language of the Circassians in Israel is Adyghe, and most of them also know Hebrew and Arabic.
israel: Israeli public support for the Accords waned after Palestinian suicide attacks.
israel: Jerusalem was rebuilt as a Roman colony (Aelia Capitolina), and the province of Judea was renamed Syria Palaestina.
israel: It was founded during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War by consolidating paramilitary organisations, chiefly the Haganah.
israel: Under the British Mandate (1920–1948), the entire region was known as Palestine.
israel: In 1992, Yitzhak Rabin became prime minister following an election in which his party called for compromise with Israel's neighbours.
israel: ANU - Museum of the Jewish People is an interactive museum devoted to the history of Jewish communities around the world.
israel: Most surveyed Americans have held consistently favourable views of Israel.
israel: A number of other religious landmarks are located in the West Bank, including Joseph's Tomb, the birthplace of Jesus, Rachel's Tomb, and the Cave of the Patriarchs.
israel: Other Arab states mobilised their forces.
israel: In February 2026, Israel and the United States launched extensive airstrikes on Iran, assassinating Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and sparking the 2026 Iran war and the 2026 Lebanon war.
israel: In October 2024, Israel invaded Lebanon and exchanged missile barrages with Iran three weeks later, in response of Iranian strikes earlier in that month.
israel: The need to solve the crisis led Ben-Gurion to sign a reparations agreement with West Germany that triggered mass protests by Jews angered at the idea that Israel could accept monetary compensation for the Holocaust.
israel: The considerable sunlight available for solar energy makes Israel the leading nation in solar energy use per capita—practically every house uses solar panels for water heating.
israel: liabilities abroad), which in 2015 stood at a surplus of $69 billion.
israel: It incorporates many foods traditionally eaten in the Levantine, Arab, Middle Eastern and Mediterranean cuisines, such as falafel, hummus, shakshouka, couscous, and za'atar.
israel: Despite its small size, Israel is home to a variety of geographic features, from the Negev desert in the south to the inland fertile Jezreel Valley, with mountain ranges of the Galilee, Carmel and towards the Golan in the north.
israel: A Jewish national is defined as any person practicing Judaism and their descendants.
israel: Zionism emerged during this time as a political movement to reestablish a Jewish homeland in Palestine.
israel: Schnitzel, pizza, hamburgers, French fries, rice and salad are common.
israel: Prime Minister Netanyahu has defended the country's security forces for protecting the innocent from terrorists and expressed contempt for what he describes as a lack of concern about the human rights violations committed by "criminal killers".
israel: In 1981 Israel effectively annexed the Golan Heights.
israel: In September 1947, the British cabinet decided to evacuate Palestine as the Mandate was no longer tenable.
israel: Yad Vashem (Hebrew: יָד וַשֵׁם, lit.
israel: Following the 1967 war and the "Three Nos" resolution of the Arab League, Israel faced attacks from the Egyptians in the Sinai Peninsula during the 1967–1970 War of Attrition, and from Palestinian groups targeting Israelis in the occupied territories, globally, and in Israel.
israel: A November 2024 ceasefire agreement instructed Israel to withdraw from Lebanon, which Israel mostly did by February 2025, but against the agreement, Israeli forces stayed in five military outposts on highlands in Southern Lebanon.
israel: Nevertheless, there was a continuous small Jewish presence, and Galilee became its religious center.
israel: The Economist ranked Israel as the fourth most successful economy among the developed countries for 2022.
israel: Israel maintains diplomatic relations with 165 UN member states, the Holy See, Kosovo, the Cook Islands and Niue.
israel: Arab citizens of Israel (except the Druze) and those engaged in full-time religious studies are exempt, although the exemption of yeshiva students has been a source of contention.
israel: After his death, the area was controlled by the Ptolemaic and Seleucid empires as a part of Coele-Syria.
israel: It was first launched in 1988, making Israel the eighth nation to have a space launch capability.
israel: Begin's government meanwhile provided incentives for Israelis to settle in the occupied West Bank, increasing friction with the Palestinians there.
israel: It is also the home of the first hominid fossil skull found in West Asia, called Galilee Man.
israel: The ongoing water shortage has spurred innovation in water conservation techniques, and a substantial agricultural modernisation, drip irrigation, was invented in Israel.
israel: Following the 2007 Battle of Gaza, when Hamas assumed power in the Gaza Strip, Israel tightened control of the Gaza crossings along its border, as well as by sea and air, and prevented persons from entering and exiting except for isolated cases it deemed humanitarian.
israel: As a result of its conscription programme, the IDF maintains approximately 176,500 active troops and 465,000 reservists, giving Israel one of the world's highest percentage of citizens with military training.
israel: Israel has the largest Jewish population in the world and is the only country where Jews are the majority.
israel: 900 BCE and the Kingdom of Judah by ca.
israel: In 1920, the territory was divided between Britain and France under the mandate system, and the British-administered area (including modern Israel) was named Mandatory Palestine.
israel: Today Israeli art has delved into optical art, AI art, digital art and the use of salt in sculpture.
israel: The name Israel was suggested by David Ben-Gurion and passed by a vote of 6–3.
israel: The 1949 Green Line became the administrative boundary between Israel and the occupied territories.
israel: Israeli universities are ranked among the top 50 world universities in computer science (Technion and Tel Aviv University), mathematics (Hebrew University of Jerusalem) and chemistry (Weizmann Institute of Science).
israel: The prime minister is the head of government and of cabinet.
israel: Israel withdrew from most of Lebanon in 1986 but continued to occupy a borderland buffer zone in southern Lebanon until 2000, from where Israeli forces engaged in conflict with Hezbollah.
israel: On 11 March 1978, a PLO guerilla raid from Lebanon led to the Coastal Road massacre.
israel: The international community maintains that Israel does not have sovereignty in the West Bank and considers Israel's control of the area to be the longest military occupation in modern history.
israel: This would be a dominant source of antagonism with the Arab population, with the new Yishuv's nationalist ideology overpowering its socialist one.
israel: In this early period, whilst Israel's aid represented only a small percentage of total aid to Africa, its programme was effective in creating goodwill; however, following the 1967 war relations soured.
israel: Since the late 1970s Israel's foreign aid has gradually decreased, although in recent years Israel has tried to reestablish aid to Africa.
israel: The joint Cyprus-Israel oil and gas explorations centred on the Leviathan gas field are an important factor for Greece, given its strong links with Cyprus.
israel: The Arrow missile is one of the world's few operational anti-ballistic missile systems.
israel: Prior to 1948, opposition to Yiddish, the historical language of the Ashkenazi Jews, was common among supporters of the Zionist movement, including the Yishuv, who sought to promote Hebrew's revival as a unifying national language.
israel: The immigration was in accordance with the One Million Plan.
israel: Relations between Greece and Israel have improved since 1995 after decline of Israeli–Turkish relations.
israel: 90% of Palestinian Israelis reside in 139 densely populated towns and villages concentrated in the Galilee, Triangle and Negev regions, with the remaining 10% in mixed cities and neighbourhoods.
israel: Israeli sovereignty over East Jerusalem is internationally unrecognized.
israel: The country aims to have 30% of vehicles on its roads powered by electricity by 2030.
israel: Many Jews had emigrated to flourishing diaspora communities, while locally there was both Christian immigration and local conversion.
israel: The concept of an eventual return to Zion remained a symbol within religious Jewish belief which emphasised that their return should be determined by Divine Providence rather than human action.
israel: The Israel Defence Forces (IDF) is the sole military wing of the Israeli security forces and is headed by its Chief of the General Staff, the Ramatkal, subordinate to the Cabinet.
israel: The end of the 11th century brought the Crusades, papally-sanctioned incursions of Christian crusaders intent on wresting Jerusalem and the Holy Land from Muslim control and establishing crusader states.
israel: It is estimated that the region's population was around 400,000 in the Iron Age II.
israel: Sharon became prime minister in a 2001 election; he carried out his plan to unilaterally withdraw from the Gaza Strip and spearheaded the construction of the West Bank barrier, ending the intifada.
israel: Those who went to Palestine were driven primarily by ideas of self-determination and Jewish identity, rather than as a response to pogroms or economic insecurity.
israel: Leading poets include Yehuda Amichai, Nathan Alterman, Leah Goldberg, and Rachel Bluwstein.
israel: While it is unclear if there was a United Kingdom of Israel, historians and archaeologists agree that the northern Kingdom of Israel existed by ca.
israel: Arabs constituted the majority and owned about 20% of the land, with the remainder held by the Mandate authorities or foreign landowners.
israel: Israeli Jews 25 and older have an average 11.6 years of schooling, making them one of the most highly educated of all major religious groups in the world.
israel: In 1955 Israel began its foreign aid programme in Burma and then shifted to Africa.
israel: As a result of the Late Bronze Age collapse, Canaan fell into chaos, and Egyptian control over the region collapsed.
israel: In recent years, Israel had one of the highest growth rates in the developed world.
israel: In 2009 Tamar gas field was discovered near the coast, and Leviathan gas field was discovered in 2010.
israel: On that day, approximately 1,300 Israelis, predominantly civilians, were killed in communities near the Gaza Strip border and during a music festival.
israel: It has 107 diplomatic missions; countries with which it has no diplomatic relations include most Muslim countries.
israel: The population is mainly Palestinians, including refugees of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War.
israel: Israel declared independence as the British Mandate ended on 14 May 1948, followed by an invasion by Arab states.
israel: Chaim Weizmann's efforts to garner British support for the Zionist movement eventually secured the Balfour Declaration of 1917, stating Britain's support for the creation of a Jewish "national home" in Palestine.
israel: Israel has applied civilian law to both areas and granted their inhabitants permanent residency status and the ability to apply for citizenship.
israel: Relations took a downturn after the 2008–09 Gaza War and Israel's raid of the Gaza flotilla.
israel: The Israel Philharmonic Orchestra has been in operation for over seventy years and performs more than two hundred concerts each year.
israel: In the early years of the state, the Labour Zionist movement led by Prime Minister Ben-Gurion dominated Israeli politics.
israel: Later that year, Egyptian President Anwar El Sadat made a trip to Israel and spoke before the Knesset in what was the first recognition of Israel by an Arab head of state.
israel: After a year of fighting, a ceasefire was declared and temporary borders, known as the Green Line, were established.
israel: A party cannot run for election to the Knesset if its objectives or actions include the "negation of the existence of the State of Israel as the state of the Jewish people".
israel: Early references to "Canaan" and "Canaanites" appear in ancient Near Eastern and Egyptian texts (c.
israel: Further south is the Arabah, ending with the Gulf of Eilat, part of the Red Sea.
israel: From May to September, rain is rare.
israel: 400 years on average.
israel: Israel reiterated that these actions were a casus belli and launched a pre-emptive strike (Operation Focus) against Egypt in June.
israel: The international community widely regards Israeli settlements in the occupied territories illegal under international law.
israel: There are four different phytogeographic regions, due to its location between the temperate and tropical zones.
israel: Commercial production of natural gas from the Tamar field began in 2013, with over 7.5 billion cubic metres (bcm) produced annually.
israel: It has the most billionaires in the Middle East and the 18th most in the world.
israel: Statistics on Jerusalem include the population and area of East Jerusalem, the status of which is in international dispute.
israel: A 1660 Druze revolt against the Ottomans destroyed Safed and Tiberias.
israel: Tel Aviv and Haifa rank as Israel's next most populous cities, with populations of 494,900 and 297,082, respectively.
israel: Israel has a school life expectancy of 16 years and a literacy rate of 97.8%.
israel: The White City of Tel Aviv is a UNESCO heritage site.
israel: Amnesty's claim was criticised by politicians and representatives from Israel and its closest allies such as, the US, the UK, the European Commission, Australia, Netherlands and Germany, while said accusations were welcomed by Palestinians and the Arab League.
israel: In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Palestinian groups launched attacks against Israeli and Jewish targets around the world, including a massacre of Israeli athletes at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich.
israel: There is debate about the earliest existence of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah and their extent and power.
israel: The high annual incident solar irradiance at its geographic latitude creates ideal conditions for what is an internationally renowned solar research and development industry in the Negev.
israel: Since capture of these territories, Israeli settlements and military installations have been built within each of them, except Lebanon.
israel: Though the immigrants of the Second Aliyah largely sought to create communal Jewish agricultural settlements, Tel Aviv was established as the first planned Jewish town in 1909.
israel: In the early 20th century Jewish architects sought to combine Occidental and Oriental architecture producing buildings that showcase a myriad of infused styles.
israel: The Golan Heights and East Jerusalem have been fully incorporated under Israeli law but not under international law.
israel: 10,000 BCE) may be linked to the Proto-Afroasiatic language and is notable for adopting sedentism before the advent of agriculture and the Neolithic Revolution.
israel: The First Intifada, a Palestinian uprising against Israeli rule, broke out in 1987, with waves of uncoordinated demonstrations and violence in the occupied West Bank and Gaza.
israel: Some immigrants arrived as refugees and were housed in temporary camps known as ma'abarot; by 1952, over 200,000 people were living in these tent cities.
israel: Following independence, multiple government projects were commissioned, a grand part built in a brutalist style with heavy emphasis on the use of concrete and acclimatisation to the desert climate.
israel: The latter engaged in clandestine operations in countries, particularly in the Middle East and Eastern Europe, where the lives of Jews were in danger and exit was difficult.
israel: The natural gas reserves in these two fields could make Israel energy-secure for more than 50 years.
israel: By the 2010s, increasing regional cooperation between Israel and Arab League countries have been established, culminating in the signing of the Abraham Accords.
israel: India established full diplomatic ties with Israel in 1992 and has fostered a strong military, technological and cultural partnership with the country since then.
israel: Most important among the Palestinian and Arab groups was the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO), established in 1964, which initially committed itself to "armed struggle as the only way to liberate the homeland".
israel: The West Bank was occupied and annexed by Jordan in 1950, following the 1949 Armistice Agreements.
israel: In 2016, 399,300 Israelis lived in West Bank settlements, including those that predated the establishment of the State of Israel and which were re-established after the Six-Day War.
israel: Amnesty International and other NGOs have documented mass arbitrary arrests, torture, unlawful killings, systemic abuses and impunity in tandem with a denial of the right to Palestinian self-determination.
israel: Exact figures are unknown, as many of them are living in the country illegally, but estimates run from 166,000 to 203,000.
israel: During the Late Bronze Age (1550–1200 BCE), large parts of Canaan formed vassal states of the New Kingdom of Egypt.
israel: The Washington Post's 2021 survey of scholars and academic experts on the Middle East found an increase from 59% to 65% of these scholars describing Israel as a "one-state reality akin to apartheid".
israel: It is ranked 14th in the Global Innovation Index in 2025, and 5th in the 2019 Bloomberg Innovation Index.
israel: In 1985, Israel responded to a Palestinian terrorist attack in Cyprus by bombing the PLO headquarters in Tunisia.
israel: Jews from Europe and the former Soviet Union and their descendants born in Israel, including Ashkenazi Jews, constitute approximately 44% of Jewish Israelis.
israel: At the end of the war, about 31% of the population of Palestine was Jewish.
israel: Israel has the highest number of museums per capita.
israel: Turkey's ties to other Muslim-majority nations in the region have at times resulted in pressure from Arab and Muslim states to temper its relationship with Israel.
israel: The Jewish population maintains a relatively high level of educational attainment where just under half of all Israeli Jews (46%) hold post-secondary degrees.
israel: Marriage and divorce are under the jurisdiction of the religious courts: Jewish, Muslim, Druze, and Christian.
israel: 19th-century European antisemitism fuelled the Zionist movement for a Jewish homeland, which gained British support with the 1917 Balfour Declaration.
israel: In 1516, the Ottoman Empire conquered the region and ruled it as part of Ottoman Syria.
israel: At the lowest level are magistrate courts, situated in most cities across the country.
israel: Israel also captured the Sinai Peninsula but returned it to Egypt as part of the 1979 Egypt–Israel peace treaty.
israel: is expected to provide the country with $3.8 billion per year, or around 20% of Israel's defence budget, from 2018 to 2028.
israel: Membership of the Knesset is based on proportional representation of political parties, with a 3.25% electoral threshold, which in practice has resulted in coalition governments.
israel: After capturing Babylon in 539 BCE, Cyrus the Great, founder of the Achaemenid Empire, issued a proclamation allowing the exiled Judean population to return.
israel: Israel has won over 100 gold medals in the Paralympic Games and is ranked 20th in the all-time medal count.
israel: The international community largely rejected these moves, with the UN Security Council declaring both the Jerusalem Law and the Golan Heights Law null and void.
israel: In 1561 the Ottoman sultan invited Sephardic Jews escaping the Spanish Inquisition to settle in and rebuild the city of Tiberias.
israel: An alternative for those who receive exemptions on various grounds is Sherut Leumi, or national service, which involves a programme of service in social welfare frameworks.
israel: The OECD in 2016 estimated the average life expectancy at 82.5 years, the 6th-highest in the world.
israel: The Christian population comprises primarily Arab Christians and Aramean Christians but also includes post-Soviet immigrants, foreign labourers, Armenian Christians, and followers of Messianic Judaism, considered by most Christians and Jews to be a form of Christianity.
israel: Schooling is divided into three tiers—primary school (grades 1–6), middle school (grades 7–9), and high school (grades 10–12)—culminating with Bagrut matriculation exams.
israel: Arab influences are found in architecture, music, and cuisine, among others.
israel: Jordan, Syria and Iraq attacked Israel.
israel: Many Israelis communicate reasonably well in English, as many television programmes are broadcast in English with subtitles and the language is taught in elementary school.
israel: In 2017, a record 3.6 million tourists visited Israel, yielding a 25 per cent growth since 2016 and contributed NIS 20 billion to the economy.
israel: Israel had a modern electric car infrastructure involving a countrywide network of charging stations; however, its electric car company Better Place shut down in 2013.
israel: Most of the ships were intercepted by the Royal Navy and the refugees placed in detention camps in Atlit and Cyprus.
israel: Under the Hellenistic kingdoms, ongoing Hellenisation generated cultural tensions among the Jewish population that culminated under Antiochus IV, whose decrees outlawed Jewish practices and triggered the Maccabean Revolt in 167 BCE.
israel: Israel comprises a major part of the Holy Land, a region of significant importance to all Abrahamic religions.
israel: As of 2016, Israel has 19,224 kilometres (11,945 mi) of paved roads and 3 million motor vehicles.
israel: Israeli settlers beyond the Green Line number over 600,000 (≈10% of the Jewish Israeli population).
israel: 2000 BCE); these populations were structured as politically independent city-states.
israel: State Department has called reports of abuses of significant human rights of Palestinians "credible" both within Israel and the occupied territories.
israel: In 6 CE, the area was annexed as the Roman province of Judaea; tensions with Roman rule led to a series of Jewish–Roman wars, resulting in widespread destruction.
israel: The Bank of Israel holds $201 billion of foreign-exchange reserves, the 17th highest in the world.
israel: In 1967, as a result of the Six-Day War, Israel captured and occupied the West Bank (including East Jerusalem), the Gaza Strip and the Golan Heights.
israel: The number of motor vehicles per 1,000 persons is 365, relatively low among developed countries.
israel: The names Land of Israel and Children of Israel have historically been used to refer to the biblical Kingdom of Israel and the entire Jewish people respectively.
israel: The Jordan River runs along the Jordan Rift Valley, from Mount Hermon through the Hulah Valley and the Sea of Galilee to the Dead Sea, the lowest point on the surface of the Earth.
israel: Reporters Without Borders reported that the Israel Defence Forces had killed more than 100 Palestinian journalists in Gaza.
israel: Israel was excluded from the 1978 Asian Games and since then has not competed in Asian sport events.
israel: Ethiopia is Israel's main ally in Africa due to common political, religious and security interests.
israel: Over 700,000 Palestinians fled or were expelled by Zionist militias and the Israeli military—what would become known in Arabic as the Nakba ('catastrophe').
israel: As of 2015, over 50 per cent of the water for households, agriculture and industry is artificially produced.
israel: Israeli political opposition to annexation primarily stems from the perceived "demographic threat" of incorporating the West Bank's Palestinian population into Israel.
israel: Until 2018, Arabic was also an official language; in 2018 it was downgraded to having a "special status in the state".
israel: French is spoken by around 700,000 Israelis, mostly originating from France and North Africa (see Maghrebi Jews).
israel: In 1799, governor Jazzar Pasha repelled an assault on Acre by Napoleon's troops, prompting the French to abandon the Syrian campaign.
israel: Several hundred British security personnel and Jews were killed; 5,032 Arabs were killed, 14,760 wounded, and 12,622 detained.
israel: Maccabi Tel Aviv, Maccabi Haifa and Hapoel Tel Aviv have competed in the UEFA Champions League and Hapoel Tel Aviv reached the UEFA Cup quarter-finals.
israel: The plan attached to the resolution was essentially that proposed in the report of 3 September.
israel: By 2007, Germany had paid 25 billion euros in reparations to Israel and individual Israeli Holocaust survivors.
israel: It is based on the principle of stare decisis (precedent) and is an adversarial system.
israel: Housing prices are listed in the top third of all countries, with an average of 150 salaries required to buy an apartment.
israel: In 1966, Shmuel Yosef Agnon shared the Nobel Prize in Literature with German Jewish author Nelly Sachs.
israel: No Israeli legislation has defined the territory of Israel, and no act specifically included East Jerusalem therein.
israel: Under a memorandum of understanding signed in 2016, the U.S.
israel: The Sorek desalination plant is the largest seawater reverse osmosis desalination facility in the world.
israel: Internationally famous contemporary novelists include Amos Oz, Etgar Keret and David Grossman.
israel: About 93% of Israelis live in urban areas.
israel: Israel's western coast lies on the Mediterranean Sea, its southern tip reaches the Red Sea, and to the east is Earth's lowest point near the Dead Sea.
israel: Israeli law is seldom enforced in the occupied territories, with 96% of police investigations into settler violence in the West Bank from 2020 to 2025 ending without an indictment.
israel: Eilat has hosted its own international music festival, the Red Sea Jazz Festival, every summer since 1987.
israel: On 7 June 1981, during the Iran–Iraq War, the Israeli air force destroyed Iraq's sole nuclear reactor, then under construction, in order to impede the Iraqi nuclear weapons programme.
israel: The Basic Laws of Israel establish the Knesset as a proportionally elected parliament.
israel: The Israeli security situation shifted from the traditional Arab–Israeli conflict towards the Iran–Israel proxy conflict and direct confrontation with Iran during the Syrian civil war.
israel: As a result, by 2021 housing prices rose by 5.6%.
israel: The second-oldest evidence of anatomically modern humans outside Africa is a 200,000-year-old fossil from Misliya Cave on Mount Carmel.
israel: In 2007 the Israeli Air Force destroyed a nuclear reactor in Syria.
israel: Most Israelis are conscripted at age 18.
israel: The application of democracy to its Palestinian citizens and the selective application of Israeli democracy in the Israeli-controlled Palestinian territories have been criticised.
israel: Tourism, especially religious tourism, is an important industry, with beaches, archaeological, other historical and biblical sites, and unique geography also drawing tourists.
israel: The Haganah attempted to bring tens of thousands of Jewish refugees and Holocaust survivors to Palestine by ship.
israel: There are 380 Israeli nature reserves.
israel: Some immigrants held Zionist beliefs or came for the promise of a better life, while others moved to escape persecution or were expelled from their homes.
israel: The Third (1919–1923) and Fourth Aliyahs (1924–1929) brought an additional 100,000 Jews to Palestine.
israel: The millet system organised non-Muslims into autonomous communities on the basis of religion.
israel: Israel and its allies, including the United States, deny that Israel's actions constitute genocide.
israel: The Israeli government responded with an assassination campaign against the organisers of the massacre, a bombing and a raid on the PLO headquarters in Lebanon.
israel: Subsequent reports from his successor, Francesca Albanese and from Permanent United Nations Fact Finding Mission on the Israel Palestine conflict chair Navi Pillay echoed the opinion.
israel: In July 2006, a Hezbollah artillery assault on Israel's northern border communities and a cross-border abduction of two Israeli soldiers precipitated the month-long Second Lebanon War, including an Israeli invasion of Lebanon.
israel: The majority of Israel's arms exports are unreported for security reasons.
israel: On 6 October 1973, the Egyptian and Syrian armies launched a surprise attack against Israeli forces in the Sinai Peninsula and Golan Heights, opening the Yom Kippur War.
israel: has won the European championship in basketball six times.
israel: President Bill Clinton at the 2000 Camp David Summit.
israel: It is the third richest country in Asia by nominal per capita income and has the highest average wealth per adult in the Middle East.
israel: The Hebrew University of Jerusalem houses the National Library of Israel, the world's largest repository of Judaica and Hebraica.
israel: The Kingdom of Judah, under Davidic rule with its capital in Jerusalem, later became a client state of first the Neo-Assyrian Empire and then the Neo-Babylonian Empire.
israel: East of the central highlands lies the Jordan Rift Valley, a small part of the 6,500-kilometre (4,039 mi) Great Rift Valley.
israel: Israel is widely believed to possess nuclear weapons and per a 1993 report, chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction.
israel: Haredi Jews are expected to represent over 20% of the Jewish population by 2028.
israel: The 1968 Summer Paralympics were hosted by Israel.
israel: Several museums are devoted to Islamic culture, including the Rockefeller Archaeological Museum and the L.
israel: Ketura Sun is Israel's first commercial solar field.
israel: Following major investments beginning in the early to mid-1990s, the number of train passengers per year has grown from 2.5 million in 1990, to 53 million in 2015; railways transport 7.5 million tonnes (8.3 million short tons; 7.4 million long tons) of cargo per year.
israel: The 1980 Jerusalem Law was believed by some to reaffirm Israel's 1967 annexation of Jerusalem by government decree and reignited international controversy over the status of the city.
israel: The revolt weakened Seleucid control over Judea; by 142/141 BCE the Hasmoneans had secured autonomy and soon established an independent Jewish kingdom that, in the late 2nd–early 1st century BCE, expanded into neighbouring territories.
israel: Israel is first in the world in expenditure on research and development as a percentage of GDP.
israel: The first wave of modern Jewish migration to Ottoman-ruled Palestine, known as the First Aliyah, began in 1881, as Jews fled pogroms in Eastern Europe.
israel: There are 2,867 known species of plants in Israel.
israel: In the late 18th century, local Arab Sheikh Daher al-Umar created a de facto independent emirate in the Galilee.
israel: 'a memorial and a name') is the world's central Holocaust memorial institution and archive of Holocaust-related information.
israel: It shapes the government, led by the prime minister, and elects the largely ceremonial president.
israel: Between 1982 and 2000, Israel occupied part of southern Lebanon, in what was known as the Security Belt.
israel: In 2021, Israelis took a record of NIS 116.1 billion in mortgages, an increase of 50% from 2020.
israel: The status of East Jerusalem in any future peace settlement has at times been a difficult issue in negotiations between Israeli governments and representatives of the Palestinians.
israel: Israeli Arab life expectancy lags by 3 to 4 years and is higher than in most Arab and Muslim countries.
israel: ^a Including 361,700 Arabs and 233,900 Jews in East Jerusalem, as of 2020.
israel: Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories has drawn international criticism, with experts calling its actions war crimes and crimes against humanity.
israel: The Ayyubids pushed back the crusaders before Muslim rule was fully restored by the Mamluk sultans of Egypt in 1291.
israel: An Israeli government inquiry (the Kahan Commission) held Begin and several Israeli generals indirectly responsible for the Sabra and Shatila massacre and held defence minister Ariel Sharon as bearing "personal responsibility".
israel: After clearing militants from its territory, Israel launched one of the most destructive bombing campaigns in modern history and invaded Gaza on 27 October with the stated objectives of destroying Hamas and freeing hostages.
israel: Muslims constitute the largest religious minority, making up about 18.1% of the population.
israel: Each side blamed the other for the failure of the talks.
israel: Israel has embraced solar energy; its engineers are on the cutting edge of solar energy technology, and its solar companies work on projects around the world.
israel: This was a major cause of the Arab revolt of 1936–39, which was suppressed by British security forces and Zionist militias.
israel: The British introduced restrictions on Jewish immigration to Palestine with the White Paper of 1939.
israel: The legal system combines three legal traditions: English common law, civil law, and Jewish law.
israel: On 19 July 2018, the Knesset passed a Basic Law that characterises Israel as principally a "Nation State of the Jewish People" and Hebrew as its official language.
israel: Court cases are decided by professional judges.
israel: In 2005, as part of a unilateral disengagement plan, Israel removed its settlers and forces from the territory but continues to maintain control of its airspace and waters.
israel: Israel has the second-largest number of startup companies after the United States and the third-largest number of NASDAQ-listed companies.
israel: The Israel Space Agency coordinates all space research programmes with scientific and commercial goals, and have designed and built at least 13 commercial, research and spy satellites.
israel: British rule and Jewish immigration in the leadup to the Holocaust intensified Arab-Jewish tensions, which escalated into a civil war after the 1947 United Nations (UN) Partition Plan.
israel: In 37 BCE, Herod the Great was installed as a dynastic vassal of Rome following the Roman–Parthian Wars.
israel: Israel remains formally in a state of war with Syria, dating back uninterrupted to 1948.
israel: Israel hosted and won the 1964 AFC Asian Cup; in 1970 the Israel national football team qualified for the FIFA World Cup, the only time it participated.
israel: The Leviathan gas field started production in 2019.
israel: Coastal areas, such as those of Tel Aviv and Haifa, have a typical Mediterranean climate with cool, rainy winters and long, hot summers.
israel: Israel has one of the Middle East's largest economies, one of Asia's highest living standards, and globally ranks 25th in nominal GDP and 14th in nominal GDP per capita.
israel: There are three main ports: the Port of Haifa, the oldest and largest; Ashdod Port; and the Port of Eilat on the Red Sea.
israel: The official language is Hebrew.
israel: After the executions were carried out, the Irgun killed the two British soldiers, hanged their bodies from trees, and left a booby trap at the scene which injured a British soldier.
israel: The purpose of the invasion was to prevent the establishment of the Jewish state.
israel: In 587/6 BCE, following a revolt in Judah, King Nebuchadnezzar II besieged and destroyed Jerusalem and Solomon's Temple, dissolved the kingdom and exiled much of the Judean elite to Babylon.
israel: During the 16th century, Jewish communities struck roots in the Four Holy Cities—Jerusalem, Tiberias, Hebron, and Safed—and in 1697, Rabbi Yehuda Hachasid led 1,500 Jews to Jerusalem.
israel: The memorandum was criticised by major international human rights organisations for its "encouragement" of human rights abuses.
israel: By the middle of the 5th century, there was a Christian majority.
israel: The United States and the Soviet Union were the first two countries to recognise the State of Israel, having declared recognition roughly simultaneously.
israel: In a 2024 advisory opinion, the International Court of Justice stated that occupation of the Palestinian territories violated international law; Israel should end its occupation as quickly as possible and pay reparations.
israel: In 2012, Israel was ranked ninth in the world by the Futron's Space Competitiveness Index.
israel: Founded in 1918, Habima Theatre in Tel Aviv is Israel's oldest repertory theatre company and national theatre.
israel: Israel joined a secret alliance with the UK and France and overran the Sinai Peninsula in the Suez Crisis but was pressured to withdraw by the UN in return for guarantees of Israeli shipping rights.
israel: The country ranked 38th in the 2018 World Giving Index.
israel: It lies between latitudes 29° and 34° N, and longitudes 34° and 36° E.
israel: Despite limited natural resources, intensive development of the agricultural and industrial sectors over the past decades has made Israel largely self-sufficient in food production, apart from grains and beef.
israel: The public secular is the largest school group and is attended by the majority of Jewish and non-Arab pupils.
israel: The eclectic style gave way to the modernist Bauhaus style with the influx of German Jewish architects (among them Erich Mendelsohn) fleeing Nazi persecution.
israel: Jerusalem is of special importance to Jews, Muslims, and Christians, as it is the home of sites that are pivotal to their religious beliefs, such as the Old City that incorporates the Western Wall and the Temple Mount (Al-Aqsa Mosque compound) and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.
israel: The Golan Heights and all of Jordan are part of the Arabian Plate, while the Galilee, West Bank, Coastal Plain, and Negev along with the Sinai Peninsula are on the African Plate.
israel: The southern Negev and the Arabah areas have a desert climate with very hot, dry summers, and mild winters with few days of rain.
israel: The allegations include violations of international humanitarian law by the UN Human Rights Council.
israel: Common themes in art are the mystical cities of Safed and Jerusalem, the bohemian café culture of Tel Aviv, agricultural landscapes, biblical stories and war.
israel: Roughly half of the Jewish population attests to keeping kosher at home.
israel: Following mandatory service, Israeli men join the reserve forces and usually do up to several weeks of reserve duty every year until their forties.
israel: In return, Israel withdrew from the Sinai Peninsula and agreed to enter negotiations over autonomy for Palestinians in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
israel: Since the 1970s, Israel has received military aid from the United States, as well as loan guarantees, which account for roughly half of Israel's external debt.
israel: During this period, food, clothes and furniture were rationed in what became known as the austerity period.
israel: As Arab militias and gangs attacked Jewish areas, they were faced mainly by the Haganah as well as the smaller Irgun and Lehi.
israel: Caliph Umar ibn al-Khattab (r.
israel: Israel is the only country where life revolves around the Hebrew calendar, which is aligned to the seasons in the Levant.
israel: Over the following six years, the intifada became more organised and included economic and cultural measures aimed at disrupting the Israeli occupation.
israel: Human Rights Council said that the situation met the legal definition of apartheid, and concluded: "Israel has imposed upon Palestine an apartheid reality in a post-apartheid world".
israel: Arab public support for the Accords was damaged by the continuation of Israeli settlements and checkpoints, and the deterioration of economic conditions.
israel: A United Nations Special Committee, multiple governments, and various experts and human rights organisations have concluded that Israel is committing genocide against the Palestinian people due to the harm and loss of life inflicted on civilians during the Gaza War.
israel: These define Israel as a Jewish and democratic state and the nation-state of exclusively the Jewish people.
israel: Arab nationalists led by Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser refused to recognise Israel and called for its destruction.
israel: During the 2023 Gaza war, Israel has been alleged to be "trying to suppress the reporting coming out of the besieged enclave while disinformation infiltrates its own media ecosystem".
israel: The 1993 Oslo Accords introduced limited Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza, while the 2020 Abraham Accords normalised ties with more Arab states, but the Israeli–Palestinian conflict persists.
israel: In May 1967, Egypt massed its army near the border with Israel, expelled UN peacekeepers stationed in the Sinai Peninsula since 1957, and blocked Israel's access to the Red Sea.
israel: Imports, totalling $96.5 billion in 2020, include raw materials, military equipment, investment goods, rough diamonds, fuels, grain, and consumer goods.
israel: Barak offered a plan for the establishment of a Palestinian state, including the entirety of the Gaza Strip and over 90% of the West Bank with Jerusalem as a shared capital.
israel: The Python air-to-air missile series is often considered one of the most crucial weapons in its military history.
israel: The Technion and the Hebrew University consistently ranked among world's 100 top universities by ARWU ranking.
israel: In 1918, the Jewish Legion, primarily Zionist volunteers, assisted in the British conquest of Palestine.
israel: In 2025, the government recorded 72% of the population as Jews, 21% as Arabs, and 7% as "Others" (non-Arab Christians and people who have no religion listed).
israel: On 22 July 1946, Irgun bombed the British administrative headquarters for Palestine, killing 91.
israel: Several waves of Ethiopian Jews immigrated to Israel since the 1980s, while between 1990 and 1994, immigration from the post-Soviet states increased Israel's population by twelve per cent.
israel: According to government figures, the country saves 8% of its electricity consumption per year because of its solar energy use in heating.
israel: The population drastically decreased during the following several centuries, dropping from an estimated 1 million during Roman and Byzantine periods to about 300,000 by the early Ottoman period, and there was steady Arabisation and Islamisation.
israel: Hebrew is the primary language of the state and is spoken daily by the majority of the population.
israel: Azerbaijan is one of the few majority Muslim countries to develop strategic and economic relations with Israel.
israel: Jewish emigration from Israel (called yerida), primarily to the United States and Canada, is described by demographers as modest, but is often cited by Israeli government ministries as a major threat to Israel's future.
israel: The popular uprising faced disproportionate repression from the Israeli state.
israel: Immigration to Israel during the late 1940s and early 1950s was aided by the Israeli Immigration Department and the non-government sponsored Mossad LeAliyah Bet (lit.
israel: In 2016, 89 per cent of the 7,300 books transferred to the library were in Hebrew.
israel: Ehud Barak, elected prime minister in 1999, withdrew forces from southern Lebanon and conducted negotiations with PNA Chairman Yasser Arafat and U.S.
israel: Meanwhile, the Jewish insurgency continued and peaked in July 1947, with a series of widespread guerrilla raids culminating in the Sergeants affair, in which the Irgun took two British sergeants hostage as attempted leverage against the planned execution of three Irgun operatives.
israel: In April 1948, the Haganah moved onto the offensive.
israel: The incident caused widespread outrage in the UK.
israel: Jewish armed militias emerged during this period, the first being Bar-Giora in 1907.
israel: The population of the area was predominantly Arab and Muslim, with Jews accounting for about 11% and Arab Christians about 9.5% of the population.
israel: For this reason, the flora and fauna are extremely diverse.
israel: The war resulted in significant reduction of Israeli border infiltration.
israel: The strikes aimed to destroy the Iranian military, nuclear programme, and achieve regime change.
israel: A small minority of Israeli Arabs also volunteer in the army.
israel: In late 2000, after a controversial visit by Sharon to the Temple Mount, the Second Intifada began.
israel: Most modern scholars agree that the Exodus narrative in the Torah and Old Testament did not take place as depicted; however, some elements of these traditions do have historical roots.
israel: Between 1985 and 2015, Israel sent 24 delegations of their search and rescue unit the Home Front Command to 22 countries.
israel: The same bill gives Jews a unique right to national self-determination and views the developing of Jewish settlement in the country as "a national interest", empowering the government to "take steps to encourage, advance and implement this interest".
israel: From their occupation in 1967 until 1993, the Palestinians living in these territories were under Israeli military administration.
israel: Due to mass immigration from the former Soviet Union and Ethiopia (some 130,000 Ethiopian Jews live in Israel), Russian and Amharic are widely spoken.
israel: Jerusalem is the government seat and proclaimed capital, while Tel Aviv is Israel's largest urban area and economic centre.
israel: Around 4% of Israelis (300,000), ethnically defined as "others", are Russian descendants of Jewish origin or family who are not Jewish according to rabbinical law, but were eligible for citizenship under the Law of Return.
israel: Located near continental crossroads, its demographics shifted under various empires.
israel: Jews from Arab and Muslim countries and their descendants, including both Mizrahi and Sephardi Jews, form most of the rest of the Jewish population.
israel: Weizmann's interpretation of the declaration was that negotiations on the future of the country were to happen directly between Britain and the Jews, excluding Arabs.
israel: In 1994, the Israel–Jordan peace treaty was signed, making Jordan the second Arab country to normalise relations with Israel.
israel: Above them are district courts, serving as both appellate courts and courts of first instance; they are situated in five of Israel's six districts.
israel: The United States regards Israel as its "most reliable partner in the Middle East", based on "common democratic values, religious affinities, and security interests".
israel: Two years later, the larger Hashomer organisation was founded as its replacement.
israel: The United Kingdom is seen as having a "natural" relationship with Israel because of the Mandate for Palestine.
israel: The country has the highest fertility rate in the OECD and the only one which is above the replacement figure of 2.1.
israel: In addition, the court found that Israel was in breach of article 3 of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, which requires states to prevent, prohibit and eradicate all practices of racial segregation and apartheid.
israel: Since 1964 Arab countries, concerned over Israeli plans to divert waters of the Jordan River into the coastal plain, had been trying to divert the headwaters to deprive Israel of water resources, provoking tensions between Israel on the one hand, and Syria and Lebanon on the other.
israel: In 1834, a revolt by Palestinian Arab peasants against Egyptian conscription and taxation policies under Muhammad Ali was suppressed; Muhammad Ali's army retreated and Ottoman rule was restored with British support in 1840.
israel: On 14 May 1948, the day before the expiration of the British Mandate, David Ben-Gurion, the head of the Jewish Agency, declared "the establishment of a Jewish state in Eretz-Israel".
israel: The military relies heavily on high-tech weapons systems designed and manufactured in Israel as well as some foreign imports.
israel: Israel, officially the State of Israel, is a country in the Southern Levant region of West Asia.
israel: The Jewish insurgency continued throughout 1946 and 1947 despite concerted efforts by the British military and Palestine Police Force to suppress it.
israel: The international community, including numerous international humanitarian organisations and UN bodies, consider Gaza to remain occupied.
israel: Israel is also at the technological forefront of desalination and water recycling.
israel: In 2022, Michael Lynk, a Canadian law professor appointed by the U.N.
israel: The largest municipality, in population and area, is Jerusalem with 1,050,153 residents in an area of 125 square kilometres (48 sq mi).
israel: In 2003, the Knesset began to draft an official constitution based on these laws.
israel: The Second Aliyah included Zionist socialist groups who established the kibbutz movement based on the idea of establishing a separate Jewish economy based exclusively on Jewish labour.
israel: During the Byzantine period, Early Christianity displaced Roman paganism in the 4th century CE, with Constantine embracing and promoting the Christian religion and Theodosius I making it the state religion.
israel: Jewish-Arab relations in Palestine deteriorated dramatically in the following years.
israel: A second uprising known as the Bar Kokhba revolt (132–136 CE) initially allowed the Jews to form an independent state, but the Romans brutally crushed the rebellion, devastating and depopulating Judea's countryside.
israel: Around the same time, the Philistines settled on the southern coastal plain.
israel: Arabic is spoken by the Arab minority and is the main medium of teaching in Arab schools where Hebrew is studied as a subject.
israel: Israeli cuisine includes local dishes as well as Jewish cuisine brought to the country by immigrants.
israel: It has been in a similarly formal state of war with Lebanon since the end of the Lebanese Civil War in 2000, with the Israel–Lebanon border remaining unagreed by treaty.
israel: The IDF consists of the army, air force and navy.
israel: Peace treaties were signed with Egypt in 1979 (the Sinai being returned in 1982) and Jordan in 1994.
israel: By 1958, the population had risen to two million.
israel: Two violent incidents took place against Jews, the 1517 Safed attacks and the 1517 Hebron attacks, after the Turkish Ottomans ousted the Mamluks during the Ottoman–Mamluk War.
israel: Most Palestinian Arabs fled or were expelled during the Nakba, while Israeli independence prompted antisemitism in the Arab world and Jewish exodus therefrom, mainly to Israel.
israel: In April 2024, Israel initiated a wave of airstrikes on Iran, after Iranian strikes targeted Israel, marking the 2024 Iran–Israel conflict the first time in which the two countries have ever directly exchanged fire.
israel: A member of parliament supported by a parliamentary majority becomes the prime minister—usually this is the chair of the largest party.
israel: In the second half of the 18th century, Eastern European Jews who were opponents of Hasidism, known as the Perushim, settled in Palestine.
israel: The Israeli Navy's Dolphin submarines are believed to be armed with nuclear missiles offering second-strike capability.
israel: Approximately 7,800 Israelis lived in settlements in the Gaza Strip, known as Gush Katif, until they were evacuated by the government as part of its 2005 disengagement plan.
israel: Ten Israeli films have been final nominees for Best Foreign Language Film at the Academy Awards.
israel: Since 1974, the United States has been a particularly notable contributor of military aid.
israel: In the latter role, the Supreme Court rules as a court of first instance, allowing both citizens and non-citizens to petition against the decisions of state authorities.
israel: During the 1991 Gulf War, the PLO supported Saddam Hussein and Iraqi missile attacks against Israel.
israel: The continued blockade of the Suez Canal and Straits of Tiran to Israeli shipping, together with increasing fedayeen attacks against Israel's southern population and recent Arab threatening statements, prompted Israel to attack Egypt.
israel: In 2015, Israel ranked third among OECD members for the percentage of 25–64-year-olds that have attained tertiary education with 49% compared with the OECD average of 35%.
israel: 634–644) lifted the Christian ban on Jews entering Jerusalem and permitted them to worship there.
israel: After Daher's death the Ottomans regained control of the area.
israel: Gaza has a border with Egypt, and an agreement between Israel, the EU, and the PA governs how border crossings take place.
israel: The opinion is silent as to whether the discrimination amounts to apartheid; individual judges were split on the question.
israel: Other non-kosher foods produced and eaten in Israel include rabbits, ostriches, and non-kosher fish.
israel: With scarce water resources, Israel has developed various water-saving technologies, including drip irrigation.
israel: Israel ranked 8th globally for arms exports in 2020–2024.
israel: The deaf community in Israel primarily uses the Israeli Sign Language.
israel: Israel has nine public universities subsidised by the state and 49 private colleges.
israel: Israel responded by launching an invasion of southern Lebanon to destroy PLO bases.
israel: The agreement dealt with further redeployments in the West Bank and security issues.
israel: Israeli human rights organisation Yesh Din has also accused Israel of apartheid.
israel: Israel is consistently rated low in the Global Peace Index, ranking 134th out of 163 nations in 2022.
israel: Over 1,000 people were killed.
israel: It is the world leader for number of start-ups per capita and has been dubbed the "Start-Up Nation".
israel: Several novel ideas such as the Garden City were implemented in Israeli cities; the Geddes plan of Tel Aviv became renowned internationally for its revolutionary design and adaptation to the local climate.
israel: As a result of the 2008–09 Gaza War, Mauritania, Qatar, Bolivia, and Venezuela suspended political and economic ties with Israel, though Bolivia renewed ties in 2019.
israel: In 634–641 CE, the Rashidun Caliphate conquered the Levant.
israel: The Jewish Agency, the recognised representative of the Jewish community, accepted the plan, which assigned 55–56% of Mandatory Palestine to the Jews.
israel: Despite public outrage, Israel heeded American calls to refrain from hitting back.
israel: The Jordan Rift Valley is the result of tectonic movements within the Dead Sea Transform (DST) fault system.
israel: In 1994, UEFA agreed to admit Israel, and its football teams now compete in Europe.
israel: In 2010, it joined the OECD.
israel: Due to the immigration of Jewish architects, architecture has come to reflect different styles.
israel: In 1963, Israel was engaged in a diplomatic standoff with the United States in relation to the Israeli nuclear programme.
israel: The Land of Israel, also called Palestine or the Holy Land, was home to the ancient Canaanites and later the kingdoms of Israel and Judah and Hasmonean Judea.
israel: Jerusalem's boundaries were enlarged, incorporating East Jerusalem.
israel: The attack was a response to Operation Agatha (a series of raids, including one on the Jewish Agency, by the British) and was the deadliest directed at the British during the Mandate era.
israel: Jordan annexed what became known as the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, and Egypt occupied the Gaza Strip.
israel: All of the Judea and Samaria Area and parts of the Jerusalem and Northern districts are not recognised internationally as part of Israel.
israel: In 2024, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists, Israel was the second leading country in jailing journalists, and responsible for the majority of journalists killed in the world.
israel: Kosher restaurants make up around a quarter of the total as of 2015.
israel: Israel has won 20 Olympic medals since its first win in 1992, including a gold medal in windsurfing at the 2004 Summer Olympics, and seven medals at the 2024 Paris Olympics.
israel: Studies modeling trauma exposure and assessing mental health outcomes estimated that approximately 5.3% of Israelis may develop PTSD, with national data showing that probable PTSD nearly doubled from 16.2% to 29.8% and rates of anxiety and depression also rising sharply.
israel: As of 2018 there are 77 localities granted "municipalities" (or "city") status by the Ministry of the Interior, four of which are in the West Bank.
israel: Israel's Basic Law: Human Dignity and Liberty seeks to defend human rights and liberties in Israel.
israel: As of October 2023, the IMF estimated its GDP at 521.7 billion dollars and GDP per capita at 53.2 thousand (ranking 13th worldwide).
israel: Towards the end of the 5th century, Samaritan revolts erupted, continuing until the late 6th century and resulting in a large decrease in the Samaritan population.
israel: The Mahmood Mosque is affiliated with the reformist Ahmadiyya movement.
israel: Israel is located in the Levant area of the Fertile Crescent.
israel: Only Britain recognised this annexation, and Jordan has since ceded its claim to the territory to the PLO.
israel: In the early 1960s, Israel captured Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann in Argentina and brought him to Israel for trial.
israel: The following day, the armies of four Arab countries—Egypt, Syria, Transjordan, and Iraq—entered what had been Mandatory Palestine, launching the 1948 Arab–Israeli War; contingents from Yemen, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, and Sudan joined the war.
israel: English was an official language during the Mandate period; it lost this status after the establishment of Israel, but retains a role comparable to that of an official language.
israel: The (mainly Haredi) city of Bnei Brak is the most densely populated city in Israel and one of the 10 most densely populated cities in the world.
israel: Israeli law defines Jewish nationality as distinct from Israeli nationality, and the Supreme Court of Israel has ruled that an Israeli nationality does not exist.
israel: Currently Israeli foreign aid ranks low among OECD nations, spending less than 0.1% of its GNI on development assistance.
israel: Israel has 16 cities with populations over 100,000.
israel: During World War II, Palestine was repeatedly bombed by Axis aircraft, causing casualties among both Jews and Arabs.
israel: The Basic Laws of Israel function as an uncodified constitution.
israel: Jewish masters of the school of Paris, such as Soutine, Kikoine, Frenkel, Chagall heavily influenced the development of Israeli art.
israel: There are several major television channels which cater to different audiences, from Russian-language Channel 9 to Arabic-language Kan 33.
israel: Another art movement that held a prominent role in the 20th century was the School of Paris.
israel: An internal inquiry exonerated the government of responsibility for failures before and during the war, but public anger forced Prime Minister Golda Meir to resign.
israel: On 27 June 1976, Air France Flight 139 was hijacked in flight from Israel to France by Palestinian guerrillas; Israeli commandos rescued 102 of 106 Israeli hostages days later.
israel: Forests accounted for 8.5% of the area in 2016, up from 2% in 1948, as the result of a large-scale forest planting programme by the Jewish National Fund.
israel: Israeli Jewish art has been particularly influenced by the Kabbalah, the Talmud and the Zohar.
israel: The area of Beersheba and the northern Negev have a semi-arid climate with hot summers, cool winters, and fewer rainy days.
israel: The earliest known archaeological artefact to mention the word Israel as a collective is the Merneptah Stele of ancient Egypt (dated to the late-13th century BCE).
israel: Approximately 80% of Israeli Jews are born in Israel, 14% are immigrants from Europe and the Americas, and 6% are immigrants from Asia and Africa.
israel: Some commentators contend that the intifada was pre-planned by Arafat after the collapse of peace talks.
israel: Some 156,000 Arabs remained and became Arab citizens of Israel.
israel: However Israel is so narrow (100 km at its widest, compared to 400 km from north to south) that the exclusive economic zone in the Mediterranean is double the land area of the country.
israel: The IDF also draws upon the resources of the Military Intelligence Directorate (Aman).
israel: The Report of the Committee proposed a plan to replace the British Mandate with "an independent Arab State, an independent Jewish State, and the City of Jerusalem [...] the last to be under an International Trusteeship System".
israel: In 2021, Israel ranked 15th in the world by total military expenditure, with $24.3 billion, and 6th by defence spending as a percentage of GDP, with 5.2%.
israel: The fifth war of the Gaza–Israel conflict since 2008, it has been the deadliest for Palestinians in the entire Israeli–Palestinian conflict and the most significant military engagement in the region since the Yom Kippur War in 1973.
israel: Out of over one million immigrants from the former Soviet Union, about 300,000 are considered not Jewish by the Chief Rabbinate of Israel.
israel: They spoke an archaic form of Hebrew, known as Biblical Hebrew.
israel: The land is not considered part of Israel under Israeli law, as Israel has consciously refrained from annexing the territory, without ever relinquishing its legal claim to the land or defining a border.
israel: After the Hamas-led October 7 attacks, Israel began committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza.
israel: The DST forms the transform boundary between the African Plate to the west and the Arabian Plate to the east.
israel: Ptitim (Israeli couscous) is a notable Israeli food invented in the 1950s due to rice shortages during the austerity period.
israel: In the early weeks after establishment, the government chose the term Israeli to denote a citizen of the state.
israel: Israel has a tradition of higher education where its university education has been largely responsible in spurring modern economic development.
israel: After the 1967 Six-Day War, Israel occupied the West Bank, Gaza and Egyptian Sinai, and annexed East Jerusalem and the Syrian Golan Heights.
israel: Israel and Egypt operate a land, air, and sea blockade of the Gaza Strip.
israel: Over the next six centuries, control of the region transferred between the Umayyad, Abbasid, and Fatimid caliphates, and subsequently the Seljuk and Ayyubid dynasties.
israel: Chess is a leading sport.
israel: The events also led to the destruction of most of Palestine's Arab culture, identity, and national aspirations.
israel: Additionally there were more than 200,000 Jews living in East Jerusalem and 22,000 in the Golan Heights.
israel: Israel is considered the most advanced country in West Asia and the Middle East in economic and industrial development.
israel: As of 2022, there are about 2.7 million properties in Israel, with an annual increase of over 50,000.
israel: An influx of Holocaust survivors and Jews from Arab and Muslim countries to Israel during the first three years increased the number of Jews from 700,000 to 1,400,000.
israel: United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 (passed 2016) states that Israel's settlement activity constitutes a "flagrant violation" of international law and demands that Israel stop such activity and fulfill its obligations as an occupying power under the Fourth Geneva Convention.
israel: There were further expulsions of Palestinians after the establishment of Israel.
israel: Israel's foreign aid programme subsequently shifted its focus to Latin America.
israel: Districts are divided into 15 sub-districts known as nafot (Hebrew: נפות; sing.: nafa), which are partitioned into 50 natural regions.
israel: Other major universities include the Weizmann Institute of Science, Tel Aviv University, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Bar-Ilan University, the University of Haifa, and the Open University of Israel.
israel: After World War I, Britain occupied the region and established Mandatory Palestine.
