italy: Hostilities ended on 29 April 1945, when the German forces in Italy surrendered.
italy: Italy, officially the Italian Republic, is a country in Southern and Western Europe.
italy: A transport capability is guaranteed by a fleet of 27 C-130Js and C-27J Spartan.
italy: Archived from the original on 16 January 2026.
italy: Extensive traffic and congestion in large cities continue to cause environmental and health issues, even if smog levels have decreased since the 1970s and 1980s, with smog becoming an increasingly rare phenomenon and levels of sulphur dioxide decreasing.
italy: The state devolves shares of income tax to recognised religious communities, under a regime known as eight per thousand.
italy: Renaissance theatre marked the beginning of modern theatre.
italy: During the 1400s and 1500s, Italy was the birthplace and heart of the Renaissance.
italy: 99% are family-operated and small, averaging only 8 ha (20 acres).
italy: In the early 13th century, Francis of Assisi was the first Italian poet, with his religious song Canticle of the Sun.
italy: Reorganisation of the army and conscription led to Italian victories.
italy: A peculiarity of the Italian Parliament is the representation given to Italian citizens permanently living abroad: 8 Deputies and 4 Senators are elected in four distinct overseas constituencies.
italy: Mussolini was deposed and arrested by order of King Victor Emmanuel III.
italy: Between 1992 and 1993, Italy faced terror attacks perpetrated by the Sicilian Mafia as a consequence of new anti-mafia measures by the government.
italy: However, as of 2005, 6,759 species are recorded in the Data bank of Italian vascular flora.
italy: Lucrezia Di Siena, named on a 1564 contract, has been referred to as the first Italian actress known by name, with Vincenza Armani and Barbara Flaminia as the first prima donnas.
italy: Significant changes occurred with the discovery of the New World, with items such as potatoes, tomatoes, and maize becoming main ingredients from the 18th century.
italy: During the 16th into the 18th century, commedia dell'arte was a form of improvisational theatre, and is still performed.
italy: During the 1990s and 2000s, centre-right (dominated by media magnate Silvio Berlusconi) and centre-left coalitions (led by professor Romano Prodi) alternately governed.
italy: This era marked the transition from the medieval period to the modern age and was fostered by the wealth accumulated by merchant cities and the patronage of dominant families.
italy: Under the Treaty of Paris between Italy and the Allied Powers, areas next to the Adriatic Sea were annexed by Yugoslavia, resulting in the Istrian-Dalmatian exodus, which involved the emigration of around 300,000 Istrian and Dalmatian Italians.
italy: Bologna University, founded in 1088, is the oldest university still in operation, and one of the leading academic institutions in Europe.
italy: Machiavelli's most famous work is The Prince, whose contribution to political thought is the fundamental break between political idealism and realism.
italy: The Migration Period, involving large invasions by Germanic peoples, led to the decline of the Roman Empire.
italy: Italy is prominent in the field of design, notably interior, architectural, industrial, and urban designs.
italy: Deforestation, illegal building, and poor land-management policies have led to significant erosion in Italy's mountainous regions, leading to ecological disasters such as the 1963 Vajont Dam flood, the 1998 Sarno, and the 2009 Messina mudslides.
italy: Festivals and festivities include the Palio di Siena horse race, Holy Week rites, Saracen Joust of Arezzo, and the calcio storico fiorentino.
italy: As a founding member of the G7, the eurozone, and the OECD, it is one of the most industrialised countries and a major trading nation in Europe; as of 2024, it exported €612 billion in goods and had a trade surplus of €46 billion.
italy: Italy was represented in the progressive rock and pop movements of the 1970s, with bands such as PFM, Banco del Mutuo Soccorso, Le Orme, Goblin, and Pooh.
italy: The Assumption of Mary coincides with Ferragosto on 15 August, the summer vacation period.
italy: Filippo Tommaso Marinetti wrote Manifesto of Futurism and called for the use of language and metaphors that glorified the speed, dynamism, and violence of the machine age.
italy: Italy lags behind other Western European nations in LGBT rights.
italy: The total area protected by national parks, regional parks, and nature reserves covers about 11% of Italian territory, and 12% of Italy's coastline is protected.
italy: Italy strongly supports multilateral international politics, endorsing the UN and its international security activities.
italy: There are 120,000 Hindus and 70,000 Sikhs.
italy: The Roman Empire was among the largest in history, wielding great economical, cultural, political, and military power.
italy: In 1453, despite activity by Pope Nicholas V to support the Byzantines, the city of Constantinople fell to the Ottomans.
italy: About one million Romanian citizens are registered as living in Italy, representing the largest migrant population.
italy: Italy entered World War II on 10 June 1940.
italy: Marcello Piacentini, responsible for the urban transformations of cities, devised a form of simplified Neoclassicism.
italy: The Latin Italicus was used to describe "a man of Italy" as opposed to a provincial, or one from the Roman province.
italy: By the 11th century, Italian city-states and maritime republics expanded, bringing renewed prosperity through commerce and laying the groundwork for modern capitalism.
italy: Italy, whose territory largely coincides with the eponymous geographical region, is located in Southern Europe (and is also considered part of Western Europe) between latitudes 35° and 47° N, and longitudes 6° and 19° E.
italy: Italian educator Maria Montessori created the philosophy of education that bears her name.
italy: The most famous member of Young Italy was the revolutionary and general Giuseppe Garibaldi who led the republican drive for unification in southern Italy.
italy: Including the islands, Italy has a coastline of 7,600 kilometres (4,722 miles) on the Mediterranean Sea, the Ligurian and Tyrrhenian seas, the Ionian Sea, and the Adriatic Sea.
italy: In 1946, the monarchy was replaced by a republic and the country made a strong recovery.
italy: Like France, Italy has signed the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, but has not ratified it.
italy: Several ancient authors said it was named after a local ruler Italus.
italy: Its monetary policy is set by the European Central Bank.
italy: Italy's history goes back to numerous Italic peoples – notably including the ancient Romans, who conquered the Mediterranean world during the Roman Republic and ruled it for centuries during the Roman Empire.
italy: Archived from the original on 16 December 2008.
italy: In April 1939, Italy invaded Albania.
italy: Other sources of immigration have been neighbouring North Africa, the Asia-Pacific region, the Philippines and Latin America.
italy: The Black Death of 1348 killed perhaps a third of Italy's population.
italy: The country's contribution to the Allied victory earned it a place as one of the "Big Four" powers.
italy: However, national debt skyrocketed past 100% of GDP.
italy: Taxpayers who do not wish to fund a religion contribute their share to the welfare system.
italy: The birth of the Kingdom of Italy was the result of efforts of Italian nationalists and monarchists loyal to the House of Savoy to establish a united kingdom encompassing the entire Italian Peninsula.
italy: Italy was the first country to exploit geothermal energy to produce electricity.
italy: Italy withdrew from the League of Nations.
italy: In the middle of such conflicts, the Medici popes Leo X (1513–1521) and Clement VII (1523–1534) faced the Protestant Reformation in Germany, England and elsewhere.
italy: Italy is one of the world's leading producers of pumice, pozzolana, and feldspar.
italy: Its best-known combat vehicles are the Dardo infantry fighting vehicle, the B1 Centauro tank destroyer, and the Ariete tank, and among its aircraft are the Mangusta attack helicopter, deployed on EU, NATO, and UN missions.
italy: During the Napoleonic Wars, north and central Italy were reorganised as Sister Republics of France and, later, as a Kingdom of Italy.
italy: Cabiria, from 1914, is the most famous Italian silent film.
italy: One theory suggests it originated from an Ancient Greek term for the land of the Italói, a tribe that resided in the region now known as Calabria.
italy: It is a founding and leading member of the European Union, and is part of numerous other international organisations and forums.
italy: The first colonisers were the Phoenicians, who established emporiums on the coasts of Sicily and Sardinia.
italy: Consequently, in 1949 Italy became a member of NATO.
italy: The Germans, with the assistance of Italian fascists, succeeded in taking control of north and central Italy (Operation Achse).
italy: Italian philosophers of the Greek period include Xenophanes, Parmenides, and Zeno.
italy: Italy from BBC News
"Italy".
italy: Despite not being a branch of the armed forces, the Guardia di Finanza has military status and is organised along military lines.
italy: On the basis of the Plombières Agreement, the Sardinia ceded Savoy and Nice to France, an event that caused the Niçard exodus.
italy: In the late 19th century, a literary movement called verismo, which extolled realism, played a major role in Italian literature.
italy: The only surviving Roman paintings are wall paintings.
italy: Northern and central areas can experience strong thunderstorms from spring to autumn.
italy: Italy has an advanced mixed economy that is the third-largest in the eurozone and 11th-largest in the world by purchasing power parity-adjusted GDP.
italy: Italy's top league is Serie A and is followed by millions of fans around the world.
italy: The Franks helped form the Papal States.
italy: Italian theatre came about in the Middle Ages, with its antecedents dating back to ancient Greek colonies in southern Italy (Magna Graecia), as well as the theatre of the Italic peoples and the theatre of ancient Rome.
italy: Major Italian fashion labels – such as Gucci, Armani, Prada, Versace, Valentino, Dolce & Gabbana – are among the finest fashion houses in the world.
italy: The judiciary bases their decisions on Roman law modified by the Napoleonic Code and later statutes.
italy: The Po Valley is mostly humid subtropical, with cool winters and hot summers.
italy: The subsequent Treaty of Rome (1924) led to annexation of Fiume by Italy.
italy: Healthcare spending accounted for 10% of GDP in 2020.
italy: Other festivals include carnivals in Venice, Viareggio, Ivrea, Foiano della Chiana, and Satriano di Lucania.
italy: The Christian concept of the basilica, a style that came to dominate in the Middle Ages, was invented in Rome.
italy: In 2014, the income from travel and tourism was EUR163 billion (10% of GDP) and 1,082,000 jobs were directly related to it (5% of employment).
italy: Italy became a republic after the 1946 referendum held on 2 June, a day celebrated since as Festa della Repubblica.
italy: The COVID-19 pandemic, which began in 2020, severely affected the country's public health and economic performance, exacerbating pre-existing structural weaknesses.
italy: The Italian Socialist Party increased in strength, challenging the traditional liberal and conservative establishment.
italy: During the 2010s, efforts were made by new prime minister Matteo Renzi to introduce institutional reforms intended to streamline the political system and strengthen the executive branch, though these initiatives were rejected by a referendum in 2016.
italy: A 2009 report identified 610 comuni which have a strong Mafia presence, where 13 million Italians live and 15% of GDP is produced.
italy: The Italian Renaissance is considered to be a golden age of painting, spanning from the 15th to the late 16th centuries and having significant influence outside Italy.
italy: Italy's most famous composers include the Renaissance Palestrina, Monteverdi, and Gesualdo; the Baroque Scarlatti, and Vivaldi; the classical Paganini, and Rossini; and the Romantic Verdi and Puccini.
italy: The Papacy launched the Counter-Reformation, whose key events include: the Council of Trent (1545–1563); adoption of the Gregorian calendar; the Jesuit China mission; the French Wars of Religion; end of the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648); and the Great Turkish War.
italy: Italy was ranked 28th in the Global Innovation Index in 2025.
italy: Barbarian invasions and other factors led to the decline and fall of the Western Roman Empire between late antiquity and the Early Middle Ages.
italy: North Italian ports, such as the deep-water port of Trieste, with its extensive rail connections to Central and Eastern Europe, are the destination of subsidies and significant foreign investment.
italy: Italian clubs have won 48 major European trophies, making Italy the second most successful country in Europe, after Spain.
italy: Plays did not originate from written drama, but scenarios called lazzi, loose frameworks around which actors would improvise.
italy: Italy did not receive other territories promised by the Treaty of London, so this outcome was denounced as a "mutilated victory", by Benito Mussolini, which helped lead to the rise of Italian fascism.
italy: Although policing is primarily provided on a national basis, there are also the provincial and municipal police.
italy: The history of Italian visual arts is significant to Western painting.
italy: In April 1945, with defeat looming, Mussolini attempted to escape north, but was captured and summarily executed by partisans.
italy: This was a period in which European aristocrats, many of whom were British, visited parts of Europe, with Italy as a key destination.
italy: Before the Roman Republic's expansion, the name was used by Greeks for the land between the strait of Messina and the line connecting the gulfs of Salerno and Taranto, corresponding to Calabria.
italy: Italy has the most World Heritage Sites of any country: 61, of which 55 are cultural and 6 natural.
italy: Its population density of 195 inhabitants per square kilometre (510/sq mi) is higher than most Western European countries.
italy: In 2011, minority Christian faiths included an estimated 1.5 million Orthodox Christians, while Protestantism has been growing.
italy: Several domestic commercial policies are determined by agreements among EU members and EU legislation.
italy: Peter's Basilica, designed by Donato Bramante in the early 16th century.
italy: The fashion magazine Vogue Italia is one of the most prestigious fashion magazines in the world.
italy: Winter temperatures vary from 0 °C (32 °F) in the Alps to 12 °C (54 °F) in Sicily; so, average summer temperatures range from 20 °C (68 °F) to over 25 °C (77 °F).
italy: Tennis has a significant following: it is the fourth most practised sport.
italy: Nearly one in four Italians is over 65, and the country has the fourth oldest population in the world, with a median age of 48 and an average age of 46.6.
italy: After decline in the 1920s, the industry was revitalised in the 1930s with the arrival of sound.
italy: According to the last agricultural census, there were 1.6 million farms in 2010 (−32% since 2000) covering 12,700,000 ha or 31,382,383 acres (63% are in south Italy).
italy: It is the tenth-largest country in Europe by area, covering 301,340 km2 (116,350 sq mi), and the third-most populous member state of the European Union, with nearly 59 million inhabitants.
italy: This was the first time women voted nationally.
italy: More than 3,000 productions have been made on its lot, of which 90 received an Academy Award nomination, with 47 wins.
italy: This marked the end of war on the Italian Front, secured dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and was instrumental in ending the war less than two weeks later.
italy: The role of prime minister is similar to most other parliamentary systems, but they are not authorised to dissolve parliament.
italy: The borders of Roman Italy, Italia, are better established.
italy: A defensive alliance known as the Italic League was formed between Venice, Naples, Florence, Milan, and the Papacy.
italy: Italian cuisine is noted for its regional diversity, abundance of difference in taste, and as one of the most popular in the world, wielding strong influence abroad.
italy: Italy has been one of the world's leading producers of renewable energy, in 2010 ranking as the fourth largest provider of installed solar energy capacity and sixth largest of wind power capacity.
italy: In response, extraordinary measures were adopted to support the economy, many of them coordinated at the European level.
italy: Standardisation was further expanded in the 1950s and 1960s, due to economic growth and the rise of mass media and television.
italy: Cato's Origines describes Italy as the entire peninsula south of the Alps.
italy: The national bird is the Italian sparrow, while the national flower is the flower of the strawberry tree.
italy: Since 1978, the state has run a universal public healthcare system.
italy: These are hierarchical: the law or regulation from a lower source cannot conflict with the rule of an upper source (hierarchy of sources).
italy: One of these poets was Giacomo da Lentini, inventor of the sonnet form; the most famous early sonneteer was Petrarch.
italy: The larger concept of Oenotria and "Italy" became synonymous, and the name applied to most of Lucania as well.
italy: Lorenzo the Magnificent de Medici was the Renaissance's greatest patron, his support allowed the League to abort invasion by the Turks.
italy: Following the Congress of Vienna in 1815, the political and social Italian unification movement, or Risorgimento, emerged to unite Italy by consolidating the states and liberating them from foreign control.
italy: People have visited Italy for centuries, yet the first to visit the peninsula for tourism were aristocrats during the Grand Tour, which began in the 17th century, and flourished in the 18th and the 19th centuries.
italy: The mid-1940s to the early 1950s was the heyday of Italian neorealism, reflecting the poor condition of post-war Italy.
italy: Since 2008, when the rate climbed slightly to 1.4, the number of births has consistently declined every year, reaching a record low of 379,000 in 2023 – the fewest since 1861.
italy: Italian war crimes included extrajudicial killings and ethnic cleansing by deportation of about 25,000 people – mainly Yugoslavs – to Italian concentration camps and elsewhere.
italy: The Constitutional Court of Italy rules on the conformity of laws with the constitution.
italy: The Holy See, the episcopal jurisdiction of Rome, contains the government of Vatican City and the worldwide Catholic Church.
italy: After strong GDP growth of 5–6% per year from the 1950s to the early 1970s, and a progressive slowdown in the 1980–90s, the country stagnated in the 2000s.
italy: Villas, palaces, gardens, interiors, and art began again to be based on ancient Roman and Greek themes.
italy: Victor Emmanuel III's son, Umberto II, was forced to abdicate.
italy: Political efforts to revive growth with massive government spending produced a severe rise in public debt, which stood at over 132% of GDP in 2017; the second highest in the EU, after Greece.
italy: The country hosted the Summer Olympics in 1960; and the Winter Olympics in 1956, 2006, and is currently hosting the 2026 edition in Milan and Cortina d'Ampezzo.
italy: Yugoslav Partisans perpetrated their own crimes against the ethnic Italian population during and after the war, including the foibe massacres.
italy: Its turns in the rotating presidencies of international organisations include the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe in 2018, G7 in 2017, and the EU Council in 2014.
italy: After World War II, it was renamed as the Aeronautica Militare.
italy: The Val d'Agri area, Basilicata, hosts the largest onshore hydrocarbon field in Europe.
italy: The Montalto di Castro Photovoltaic Power Station, completed in 2010, is the largest photovoltaic (PV) power station in Italy.
italy: Excavations throughout Italy revealed a Neanderthal presence in the Middle Palaeolithic period 200,000 years ago, while modern humans appeared about 40,000 years ago at Riparo Mochi.
italy: There are active volcanoes: Mount Etna in Sicily (the largest in Europe), Vulcano, Stromboli, and Vesuvius.
italy: Filippo Brunelleschi contributed to architectural design with his dome for the Cathedral of Florence, a feat of engineering not seen since antiquity.
italy: The Epiphany is associated with the folklore figure of Befana, a broomstick-riding old woman who, on the night of 5 January, brings good children gifts, and bad ones charcoal or bags of ashes.
italy: The largest portion of Italian public debt is owned by national subjects, a major difference between Italy and Greece, and the level of household debt is much lower than the OECD average.
italy: The invasion of another Germanic tribe in the 6th century, the Lombards, reduced Byzantine presence and ended the political unity of the peninsula.
italy: Italian cuisine is heavily influenced by Etruscan, ancient Greek, ancient Roman, Byzantine, Arabic, and Jewish cuisines.
italy: Fascism was based upon Italian nationalism and imperialism, seeking to expand Italian possessions via irredentist claims based on the legacy of the Roman and Venetian empires.
italy: In the context of the 1848 liberal revolutions that swept Europe, an unsuccessful First Italian War of Independence was declared against Austria.
italy: Futurism was succeeded by the metaphysical paintings of Giorgio de Chirico, who exerted an influence on the surrealists.
italy: The national policing agencies are the Polizia di Stato ('State Police'), the Carabinieri, the Guardia di Finanza ('Financial Police'), and the Polizia Penitenziaria ('Prison Police'), as well as the Guardia Costiera ('Coast Guard Police').
italy: In 509 BC, the Romans, favouring a government of the Senate and the People (SPQR), expelled the monarchy and established an oligarchic republic.
italy: Another notable resource is marble, especially the famous white Carrara marble from Tuscany.
italy: The parliament is perfectly bicameral; each house has the same powers.
italy: The unperturbed faces and gestures of Piero della Francesca and the calm Virgins of Raphael were replaced by the troubled expressions of Pontormo and emotional intensity of El Greco.
italy: The youth unemployment rate (32% in 2018) is extremely high.
italy: University cities such as Padua, Bologna, and Naples remained centres of scholarship, with philosophers such as Giambattista Vico.
italy: According to Article 78, the Parliament has the authority to declare a state of war and vest the necessary war-making powers in the government.
italy: This geographical indication certificate, accredited by the EU, is considered important to avoid confusion with ersatz goods.
italy: In the 17th century, the Arcadians began a movement to restore simplicity and classical restraint to poetry.
italy: The Italian Navy is a blue-water navy.
italy: A natural mummy, Ötzi, dated 3400–3100 BC, was discovered in the Similaun glacier in 1991.
italy: To remain as prime minister, one has to pass votes of confidence.
italy: Between 1898 and 1914, the peak years of Italian diaspora, approximately 750,000 Italians emigrated annually.
italy: The Giro d'Italia is a cycling race held every May and one of the three Grand Tours.
italy: Central Intelligence Agency.
italy: Within the southern temperate zone, they determine a Mediterranean climate with local differences.
italy: Michelangelo was also active as a sculptor; his works include masterpieces such as David, Pietà, and Moses.
italy: 'The most beautiful villages of Italy').
italy: Top Global Fashion Capital Rankings (2013), by Global Language Monitor, ranked Rome sixth and Milan twelfth.
italy: Formal Latin literature began in 240 BC, when the first stage play was performed in Rome.
italy: The Calabrian 'Ndrangheta, probably the most powerful crime syndicate of Italy, accounts alone for 3% of GDP.
italy: Italy gained a permanent seat in the League of Nations's executive council.
italy: In October 1918, the Italians launched a massive offensive, culminating in victory at the Battle of Vittorio Veneto.
italy: The city of Milan hosts Fiera Milano, Europe's largest design fair.
italy: Some became small urban centres and developed parallel to Greek colonies.
italy: The Italian Peninsula, named Italia, was consolidated into a unified entity during Roman expansion, the conquest of new territories often at the expense of the other Italic tribes, Etruscans, Celts, and Greeks.
italy: Around 2010, Italy had the world's fifth-largest Catholic population and the largest in Europe.
italy: Giuseppe Peano was a founder of analytic philosophy and the contemporary philosophy of mathematics.
italy: A developed country ranked 30th on the Human Development Index, Italy performs well in life expectancy, healthcare, and education.
italy: Italian explorers discovered new routes to the Far East and the New World, contributing significantly to the Age of Discovery.
italy: In 1866, Victor Emmanuel II, allied with Prussia during the Austro-Prussian War, waged the Third Italian War of Independence, which resulted in Italy annexing Venetia.
italy: However, the Italian monarchy of the House of Savoy, in the Kingdom of Sardinia, whose government was led by Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour, also had ambitions of establishing a united Italian state.
italy: As the peninsula is in the centre of the Mediterranean, forming a corridor between Central Europe and North Africa, and having 8,000 km (5,000 mi) of coastline, Italy has received species from the Balkans, Eurasia, and the Middle East.
italy: In the 20th century, with futurism, Italy rose again as a seminal country for evolution in painting and sculpture.
italy: Through the centuries, Italy has fostered a scientific community that produced major discoveries the sciences.
italy: From folk to classical, music is an intrinsic part of Italian culture.
italy: The most original work of late Baroque and Rococo architecture is the Palazzina di caccia of Stupinigi.
italy: After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, Italy fell under the Odoacer's kingdom, and was seized by the Ostrogoths.
italy: In the 1960s, left-wing activists adopted the anti-authoritarian pro-working class theories that became known as autonomism and workerism.
italy: The regioni contain 107 provinces (province) or metropolitan cities (città metropolitane), and 7,896 municipalities (comuni).
italy: The characters of the commedia usually represent fixed social types and stock characters, each of which has a distinct costume.
italy: Quality goods in which Italy specialises, particularly wines and regional cheeses, are often protected under the quality assurance labels DOC/DOP.
italy: Former presidents are ex officio life senators.
italy: Air pollution remains severe, especially in the industrialised north.
italy: Italy has many botanical and historic gardens.
italy: Italy was the world's 9th-largest exporter in 2023.
italy: The adjective italianus, from which Italian was derived, is from medieval Latin and was used alternatively with Italicus during the early modern period.
italy: It is widely considered to be a regional power, while its great power status is a subject of debate among scholars and political analysts.
italy: Italian players won the Davis Cup 4 times (1976, 2023, 2024 and 2025) and the Billie Jean King Cup 6 times (2006, 2009, 2010, 2013, 2024 and 2025).
italy: Actresses such as Sophia Loren achieved international stardom.
italy: In 1176, the Lombard League of city-states defeated Holy Roman Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, ensuring their independence.
italy: Winter and summer tourism are present in locations in the Alps and the Apennines, while seaside tourism is widespread among locations along the Mediterranean.
italy: After the fall of the Berlin Wall and of the Iron Curtain, waves of migration originated from many former socialist countries of East Europe.
italy: Ancient theatrical texts were translated and staged at courts, and moved to public theatres.
italy: Italians have won 618 medals at the Summer Olympic Games, and 141 at the Winter Olympics, with 259 golds, the sixth most successful for total medals.
italy: In the aftermath of the war there was a revival of Italian republicanism, leading to the 1946 Italian institutional referendum.
italy: The region was subsequently divided between the Kingdom of Sicily and Kingdom of Naples.
italy: Italy is fifth in Europe by number of passengers using air transport, with about 148 million passengers, or about 10% of the European total in 2011.
italy: After World War II, Italian film was widely recognised and exported until an artistic decline occurred in the 1980s.
italy: The country has made substantial contributions to the cultural and historical heritage of Europe.
italy: In 2013, UNESCO included among the intangible cultural heritage Italian festivals and pasos, such as the Varia di Palmi, the Macchina di Santa Rosa in Viterbo, and faradda di li candareri in Sassari.
italy: The Italian garden is stylistically based on symmetry, axial geometry, and the principle of imposing order on nature.
italy: Pico della Mirandola wrote the Oration on the Dignity of Man, considered the manifesto of the Renaissance.
italy: 'Birthday of Rome') is an annual festival held in Rome on 21 April to celebrate the legendary founding of the city.
italy: Italy has been successful in the Olympics, taking part from the first Olympiad and in 47 Games out of 48 (not 1904).
italy: 'Roman Peace').
italy: Its border with France runs for 488 km (303 mi); Switzerland, 740 km (460 mi); Austria, 430 km (267 mi); and Slovenia, 232 km (144 mi).
italy: City-states, such as Milan, Florence, and Venice, played a crucially innovative role in financial development by devising banking practices, and enabling new forms of social organisation.
italy: The history of Italy goes back to numerous Italic peoples, notably including the ancient Romans, who conquered the Mediterranean world during the Roman Republic and ruled it for centuries during the Roman Empire.
italy: These may contain the first examples of trompe-l'œil, pseudo-perspective, and pure landscape.
italy: The World Factbook.
italy: Rome is the third most visited city in Europe, and 12th in the world, with 9.4 million arrivals in 2017.
italy: The overall population has been falling steadily since 2014 and is estimated to have fallen just below 59 million in 2024, representing a cumulative loss of more than 1.36 million people in one decade.
italy: Italian philosophers were influential in development of the non-Marxist liberal socialism philosophy.
italy: UCB Libraries GovPubs.
italy: Lega Basket Serie A is one of the most competitive in Europe.
italy: The socialist agitations that followed the devastation of the Great War, inspired by the Russian Revolution, led to counter-revolution and repression throughout Italy.
italy: The first Italian director is Vittorio Calcina, who filmed Pope Leo XIII in 1896.
italy: It consists of a peninsula that extends into the Mediterranean Sea, with the Alps on its northern land border, as well as nearly 800 islands, notably Sicily and Sardinia.
italy: Twelve "historical minority languages" are formally recognised: Albanian, Catalan, German, Greek, Slovene, Croatian, French, Franco-Provençal, Friulian, Ladin, Occitan, and Sardinian.
italy: In most inland northern and central regions, the climate ranges from humid subtropical to humid continental and oceanic.
italy: Until the 13th century, politics was dominated by relations between the Holy Roman Emperors and the Papacy, with city-states siding with the former (Ghibellines) or with the latter (Guelphs) for momentary advantage.
italy: It influenced the history of gardening, especially French and English gardens.
italy: The country operated nuclear reactors between 1963 and 1990 but, after the Chernobyl disaster and referendums, the nuclear programme was terminated, a decision overturned by the government in 2008, with plans to build up to four nuclear power plants.
italy: The official figures also do not include illegal immigrants, which was estimated to be 670,000 in 2008.
italy: Among individual sports, bicycle racing is popular; Italians have won the UCI World Championships more than any other country, except Belgium.
italy: King Victor Emmanuel III appointed Mussolini as prime minister, transferring power to the fascists without armed conflict.
italy: The Communists reorganised as a social-democratic force.
italy: The Italy national rugby union team competes in the Six Nations Championship, and at the Rugby World Cup.
italy: Its closest trade ties are with other EU countries, and its largest export partners in 2019 were Germany (12%), France (11%), and the US (10%).
italy: Italy's capital and largest city is Rome; other major cities include Milan (the largest metropolitan area in the country), Naples, Turin, Palermo, Bologna, Florence, Genoa, Bari, and Venice.
italy: The north formed the Lombard kingdom, central-south was also controlled by the Lombards, and other parts remained Byzantine.
italy: Italy has a parliamentary government based on a mixed-member majoritarian representation system.
italy: Calligrafismo was a sharp contrast to the Telefoni Bianchi-American style comedies and is rather artistic, highly formalistic, expressive in complexity, and deals mainly with contemporary literary material.
italy: Italy is part of a monetary union, the eurozone, which represents around 330 million citizens, and of the European single market, which represents more than 500 million consumers.
italy: A radical figure was the patriotic journalist Giuseppe Mazzini, founder of the political movement Young Italy in the 1830s, who favoured a unitary republic and advocated a broad nationalist movement.
italy: The Baroque period produced outstanding Italian architects.
italy: Italian philosophy had an influence on Western philosophy, beginning with the Greeks and Romans, and Renaissance humanism, the Age of Enlightenment, and modern philosophy.
italy: Antonio Gramsci remains a relevant philosopher within communist theory, credited with creating the theory of cultural hegemony.
italy: In 2002 there were 668,721 km (415,524 mi) of serviceable roads in Italy, including 6,487 km (4,031 mi) of motorways, state-owned but privately operated by Atlantia.
italy: The Marshall Plan revived the economy, which, until the late 1960s, enjoyed a period called the Italian economic miracle.
italy: Italian polities transitioned into regional states ruled by princes who controlled trade and administration, while their courts became prominent centres of the arts and sciences.
italy: This has produced a niche-markets manufacturing sector often focused on the export of luxury products.
italy: As part of NATO's nuclear sharing strategy, Italy hosts 90 US B61 nuclear bombs located at the Ghedi and Aviano air bases.
italy: Many parts of Italy are of volcanic origin.
italy: In 2010, the foreign-born population was from the following regions: Europe (54%), Africa (22%), Asia (16%), the Americas (8%), and Oceania (0.06%).
italy: Italy's life expectancy in 2015 was 80.5 years for men and 84.8 for women, placing the country 5th in the world.
italy: In the arts, the Italian Renaissance exercised a dominant influence on European art for centuries, with artists such as Leonardo da Vinci, Botticelli, Michelangelo, Raphael, Giotto, Donatello, and Titian, and architects such as Filippo Brunelleschi, Andrea Palladio, and Donato Bramante.
italy: In 2021, the Italian Air Force operated 219 combat jets.
italy: Desserts have a long tradition of merging local flavours, such as citrus fruits, pistachio, and almonds, with sweet cheeses such as mascarpone and ricotta or exotic tastes such as cocoa, vanilla, and cinnamon.
italy: Italian pop is represented annually with the Sanremo Music Festival, which served as inspiration for the Eurovision Song Contest.
italy: Roman Italy remained the metropole of the empire, homeland of the Romans and territory of the capital.
italy: Italy's population almost doubled during the 20th century, but the pattern of growth was uneven because of large-scale internal migration from the rural south to the industrial north, a consequence of the Italian economic miracle of the 1950–1960s.
italy: After the Lombard invasions, Italia was retained as the name for their kingdom, and its successor kingdom within the Holy Roman Empire.
italy: From the late 19th century to the 1960s, Italy was a country of mass emigration.
italy: However, about 20% of Italian Jews were killed during the Holocaust.
italy: Later, a branch of the Bourbons ascended to the throne of Sicily and Naples.
italy: After centuries of political and territorial divisions, the Kingdom of Italy was established in 1861, following wars of independence and the Expedition of the Thousand.
italy: Italy was hit by the 2008 financial crisis, which exacerbated structural problems.
italy: Italian fashion has a long tradition.
italy: Italy's team is one of the most successful, with four World Cup victories (1934, 1938, 1982, and 2006) and two UEFA Euro victories (1968 and 2020).
italy: In the south, Sicily had become an Arab Islamic emirate in the 9th century, thriving until the Italo-Normans conquered it in the late 11th century, together with most of the Lombard and Byzantine principalities of southern Italy.
italy: Italy has for centuries welcomed Jews expelled from other countries, notably Spain.
italy: Italy shares land borders with France to the west; Switzerland and Austria to the north; Slovenia to the east; and the two enclaves of Vatican City and San Marino.
italy: Italy deployed troops in support of UN peacekeeping missions in Somalia, Mozambique, and East Timor.
italy: Roman philosophers include Cicero, Lucretius, Seneca the Younger, Plutarch, Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius, and Augustine of Hippo.
italy: Italy had a renowned philosophical movement in the 1800s, with idealism, sensism, and empiricism.
italy: Each city or town also celebrates a public holiday on the festival of the local patron saint.
italy: Milan hosts major design- and architecture-related events and venues, such as the Fuori Salone and the Milan Furniture Fair, and has been home to the designers Bruno Munari, Lucio Fontana, Enrico Castellani, and Piero Manzoni.
italy: In 1860–1861, Garibaldi led the drive for unification in Naples and Sicily.
italy: There are 119 mammals species, 550 bird species, 69 reptile species, 39 amphibian species, 623 fish species, and 56,213 invertebrate species, of which 37,303 are insect species.
italy: It was also formed in 1946 from what remained of the Regia Marina (the 'Royal Navy').
italy: At the court of Emperor Frederick II in Sicily, in the 13th century, lyrics modelled on Provençal forms and themes were written in a refined version of the local vernacular.
italy: However, much less emphasis is placed on breakfast, which is often skipped or involves lighter portions than are seen in non-Mediterranean Western countries.
italy: Of the area in agricultural use, grain fields take up 31%, olive orchards 8%, vineyards 5%, citrus orchards 4%, sugar beets 2%, and horticulture 2%.
italy: Winters can vary widely with lingering cold, foggy, and snowy periods in the north, and milder, sunnier conditions in the south.
italy: Since 2005, smoking in public places has been restricted to "specially ventilated rooms".
italy: Since 2021, Italy's flag carrier has been ITA Airways, which took over from Alitalia.
italy: This event is celebrated by Tricolour Day.
italy: In coastal and southern areas, maritime republics dominated the Mediterranean and monopolised trade to the Orient.
italy: Gigliola Cinquetti, Toto Cutugno, and Måneskin won Eurovision, in 1964, 1990, and 2021 respectively.
italy: In 2018, secondary education was evaluated as being below the average among OECD countries.
italy: As of 2016, Italian films have won 12 Palmes d'Or, 11 Golden Lions, and 7 Golden Bears.
italy: 33 Italian universities were ranked among the world's top 500 in 2019.
italy: The Italian Grand Prix of Formula One has been held since 1921 always at Autodromo Nazionale Monza (except 1980).
italy: In 264 BC, Roman Italy extended from the Arno and Rubicon rivers of the centre-north to the entire south.
italy: The south was administered by Joachim Murat, Napoleon's brother-in-law.
italy: The distribution of the foreign population is geographically varied: in 2020, 61% of foreign citizens lived in the north, 24% in the centre, 11% in the south, and 4% on the islands.
italy: Italian Scuderia Ferrari is the oldest surviving team in Grand Prix racing, competing since 1948, and the most successful Formula One team with 232 wins.
italy: It consists of the entirety of the Italian Peninsula, Sicily and Sardinia (the biggest islands of the Mediterranean), and many smaller islands.
italy: The Venice Film Festival, awarding the Golden Lion and held since 1932, is the oldest in the world and one of the "Big Three" European film festivals, alongside Cannes and Berlin.
italy: In October 1922, the Blackshirts of the National Fascist Party organised a mass demonstration and the "March on Rome" coup.
italy: Historians regard "mutilated victory" as a "political myth", used by fascists to fuel Italian imperialism.
italy: As northern Italy quickly industrialised, southern and northern rural areas remained underdeveloped and overpopulated, forcing millions to migrate and fuelling a large and influential diaspora.
italy: This was in turn struck down by a referendum following the Fukushima nuclear accident.
italy: As a cultural superpower, Italy has long been a renowned global centre of art, music, literature, cuisine, fashion, science and technology, and the source of multiple inventions and discoveries.
italy: Invasions resulted in a chaotic succession of kingdoms and the supposed "Dark Ages".
italy: The acrobatic display team is the Frecce Tricolori ('Tricolour Arrows').
italy: The Germanic emperor and Roman pontiff became the universal powers of medieval Europe.
italy: Trieste has the highest percentage of researchers in Europe, in relation to the population.
italy: Rome reached its greatest territorial extent under Trajan (r.
italy: There were two main lines along which theatre developed.
italy: In 2004, there were 43 major seaports, including Genoa, the country's largest and second-largest in the Mediterranean.
italy: Cinema was used by Mussolini, who founded Rome's renowned Cinecittà studio, for the production of Fascist propaganda.
italy: The most famous Italian wines are the Tuscan Chianti and the Piedmontese Barolo.
italy: However, conflict over the Investiture controversy and between Guelphs and Ghibellines ended the imperial-feudal system in the north, where cities gained independence.
italy: Italian film directors include Federico Fellini, Sergio Leone, Pier Paolo Pasolini, Duccio Tessari, Luchino Visconti, Vittorio De Sica, Michelangelo Antonioni, and Roberto Rossellini, recognised among the greatest of all time.
italy: The first to begin a recognised sequence of designs were the Greeks and the Etruscans, progressing to classical Roman, then the revival of the classical Roman era during the Renaissance, and evolving into the Baroque era.
italy: The figures include more than half a million children born in Italy to foreign nationals, but exclude foreign nationals who have subsequently acquired Italian citizenship; in 2016, about 201,000 people became Italian citizens.
italy: Italy has 11 rail border crossings over the Alpine mountains with neighbouring countries.
italy: Italian feminists include Sibilla Aleramo, Alaide Gualberta Beccari, and Anna Maria Mozzoni, and proto-feminist philosophies had previously been touched upon by Italian writers.
italy: Other successful Italian car manufacturers in motorsports are Alfa Romeo, Lancia, Maserati, and Fiat.
italy: In 1865, the kingdom's capital was moved from Turin to Florence.
italy: Students are given a basic education in Italian, English, mathematics, natural sciences, history, geography, social studies, physical education, and visual and musical arts.
italy: Italy plays a major role in several economic, military, cultural, and political affairs, and is one of the EU big three.
italy: In the 15th and 16th centuries, the High Renaissance gave rise to a stylised art known as Mannerism.
italy: Over 35% of Italian territory is mountainous.
italy: Jewellers such as Bulgari, Damiani, and Buccellati were founded in Italy.
italy: Cinecittà studio is the largest film and television production facility in Europe, where many international box office hits were filmed.
italy: The main public operator of high-speed trains is Trenitalia, part of FSI.
italy: Italy is one of the largest financiers of the Palestinian Authority, contributing €60 million in 2013 alone.
italy: Education is mandatory and free from ages six to sixteen, and consists of five stages: kindergarten, primary school, lower secondary school, upper secondary school, and university.
italy: Mussolini banned political parties and curtailed personal liberties, establishing a dictatorship.
italy: In 2022, there were 45 civil airports, including the hubs of Milan Malpensa Airport and Rome Fiumicino Airport.
italy: Most small islands and archipelagos in the south are volcanic islands.
italy: Giovanni Francesco Straparola and Giambattista Basile, who wrote The Facetious Nights of Straparola (1550–55) and the Pentamerone (1634), respectively, printed some of the first known versions of fairy tales in Europe.
italy: Small, historical, and artistic villages are promoted through the association I Borghi più belli d'Italia (lit.
italy: Italian opera is believed to have been founded in the 17th century.
italy: The Roman legacy has deeply influenced Western civilisation shaping the modern world.
italy: Italian Neoclassical sculpture focused, with Antonio Canova's nudes, on the idealist aspect of the movement.
italy: In addition to the "Greek Italy" in the south, historians have suggested the existence of an "Etruscan Italy", which consisted of areas of central Italy.
italy: Italy's law prohibiting torture is considered behind international standards.
italy: A developed country with an advanced economy, Italy has the eighth-largest nominal GDP in the world, the second-largest manufacturing sector in Europe, and plays a significant role in regional and – to a lesser extent – global economic, military, cultural, and political affairs.
italy: Formal philosophy was introduced to Italy by Pythagoras, founder of the Italian school of philosophy in Crotone.
italy: Hypotheses for the etymology of Italia are numerous.
italy: The border with San Marino is 39 km (24 mi) long; that with Vatican City is 3.2 km (2.0 mi).
italy: The northern area, Cisalpine Gaul, considered geographically part of Italy, was occupied by Rome in the 220s BC, but remained politically separated.
italy: At 0.013 per 1,000 people, Italy has the 47th highest murder rate, compared to 61 countries, and the 43rd highest number of rapes per 1,000 people, compared to 64 countries in the world.
italy: During the war, more than 650,000 Italian soldiers and as many civilians died, and the kingdom was on the brink of bankruptcy.
italy: During World War II, Italy was first part of the Axis until an armistice with the Allied powers (1940–1943), then a co-belligerent of the Allies during the Italian resistance and liberation of Italy from German occupation and the collaborationist RSI (1943–1945).
italy: It has the highest number of World Heritage Sites (61) and is the fourth most visited country in the world by international tourist arrivals.
italy: Its culture has been shaped by a multitude of regional customs and local centres of power and patronage.
italy: Originally thought to be named Vituli, some scholars suggest their totemic animal to be the calf (Latin: vitulus; Umbrian: vitlo; Oscan: Víteliú).
italy: Recently, the Italian scene has received only occasional attention, with movies such as Life Is Beautiful, Cinema Paradiso, and Il Postino: The Postman.
italy: The first, dramatisation of Catholic liturgies, and the second, formed by pagan forms of spectacle, such as staging for city festivals, court preparations of jesters, and songs of the troubadours.
italy: During the High Renaissance, popes such as Julius II (1503–1513) fought for control of Italy against foreign monarchs; Paul III (1534–1549) preferred to mediate between the European powers to secure peace.
italy: The centre-right coalition, which included Giorgia Meloni's Brothers of Italy, Matteo Salvini's League, Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia, and Maurizio Lupi's Us Moderates, won most seats in parliament.
italy: In the 17th century, among the greatest painters of Italian Baroque are Caravaggio, Artemisia Gentileschi, Carlo Saraceni, and Bartolomeo Manfredi.
italy: Because of the length of the peninsula and the mostly mountainous hinterland, the climate is highly diverse.
italy: With the spread of Christianity, Rome became the seat of the Catholic Church and the Papacy.
italy: Unification was heralded by the poets Vittorio Alfieri, Ugo Foscolo, and Giacomo Leopardi.
italy: Renewable energy provided approximately 37% Italy's energy consumption in 2020.
italy: Travelling troupes of players set up an outdoor stage and provided amusement in the form of juggling, acrobatics, and humorous plays.
italy: The two houses: the Chamber of Deputies meets in Palazzo Montecitorio, and the Senate of the Republic in Palazzo Madama.
italy: The Italian Army, Navy, Air Force, and Carabinieri collectively form the Italian Armed Forces, under the command of the High Council of Defence, presided over by the president, per the Constitution of Italy.
italy: In 1935, Mussolini invaded Ethiopia and founded Italian East Africa, resulting in international isolation.
italy: Venice and Florence are among the world's top 100 destinations.
italy: The republics participated in the Crusades, providing support and transport but primarily pursuing political and commercial opportunities.
italy: The country remained a battlefield, with the Allies moving up from the south.
italy: Italy is the second-most visited country, with a total of 74 million arrivals in 2024, behind Spain.
italy: In the late 18th and early 19th centuries, Italy was influenced by the Neoclassical architectural movement.
italy: Emilio Salgari, a writer of action-adventure swashbucklers and a pioneer of science fiction, published his Sandokan series.
italy: There are an estimated 64 million native Italian speakers around the world, and another 21 million use it as a second language.
italy: At the same time, the European migrant crisis placed Italy in a central role as a major point of entry into the European Union via the Mediterranean, resulting in a large inflow of migrants and asylum seekers, particularly from sub-Saharan Africa.
italy: Due to recent immigration, Italy has sizeable populations whose native language is not Italian, nor a regional language.
italy: Producers such as Giorgio Moroder, who won three Academy Awards and four Golden Globes, were influential in the development of electronic dance music.
italy: At different times, Italians advanced in British Somaliland, Egypt, the Balkans, and eastern fronts.
italy: The unemployment rate (11%) is above the eurozone average, but the disaggregated figure is 7% in the north and 19% in the south.
italy: Introduced in the early 1920s, jazz gained a strong foothold in Italy, and remained popular despite xenophobic policies of the fascists.
italy: The Italian Air Force was founded as an independent service arm in 1923 by King Victor Emmanuel III as the Regia Aeronautica ('Royal Air Force').
italy: Donations are allowed to Christian, Jewish, Buddhist, and Hindu communities; however, Islam remains excluded, as no Muslim communities have signed a concordat.
italy: By the mid-19th century, rising Italian nationalism led to revolution.
italy: In the late 15th century, the cities of Ferrara and Rome were important for the rediscovery and renewal of theatre.
italy: On 3 September, Italy signed the Armistice of Cassibile, ending its war with UK and USA.
italy: The Italian economy declined in the 1600s and 1700s.
italy: The Italian automotive industry is a significant part of the country's manufacturing sector, with over 144,000 firms and almost 485,000 employees in 2015, contributing 9% to GDP.
italy: The new kingdom was governed by a parliamentary constitutional monarchy dominated by liberals.
italy: The Italian wolf is the national animal of Italy, while the national tree is the strawberry tree.
italy: Other popular team sports include basketball, volleyball, and rugby.
italy: The post-armistice period saw the emergence of the Italian Resistance, who fought a guerrilla war against the Nazi German occupiers and collaborators.
italy: In 2021, Italy had about 5.2 million foreign residents, making up 9% of the population.
italy: Italy's official language is Italian.
italy: Greek colonisation placed the Italic peoples in contact with democratic forms of government and high artistic and cultural expressions.
italy: Equally influential was Boccaccio's The Decameron, a very popular collection of short stories.
italy: The ancient Greek term for Italy initially referred only to the south of the Bruttium peninsula and parts of Catanzaro and Vibo Valentia.
italy: 1847 saw the first public performance of "Il Canto degli Italiani", which became the national anthem in 1946.
italy: Italy has a written democratic constitution that resulted from a Constituent Assembly formed by representatives of the anti-fascist forces that contributed to the defeat of Nazi and Fascist forces during the liberation of Italy, in World War II.
italy: In the early 21st century, Italy experienced a prolonged period of political and economic instability, strongly influenced by international crises.
italy: Female roles were played by women, documented as early as the 1560s, making them the first known professional actresses in Europe since antiquity.
italy: In 2005, Italy maintained a civilian air fleet of about 389,000 units and a merchant fleet of 581 ships.
italy: During the War of the Spanish Succession (1700–1714), Austria acquired most of the Spanish domains in Italy, namely Milan, Naples and Sardinia; the latter was given to the House of Savoy in exchange for Sicily in 1720.
italy: According to the Italian National Institute of Statistics, in 2012 Romanian was the most common mother tongue among foreign residents: almost 800,000 people speak Romanian as their first language (22% of foreign residents aged 6 and over).
italy: In the north, the Germans set up the Italian Social Republic (RSI), a Nazi puppet state and collaborationist regime with Mussolini installed as leader after he was rescued by German paratroopers.
italy: Analytic philosophers include Carlo Penco, Gloria Origgi, Pieranna Garavaso, and Luciano Floridi.
italy: Italy is one of the primary birthplaces of Western civilisation and a cultural superpower.
italy: The Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye (1919) and Treaty of Rapallo (1920) allowed for annexation of Trentino and South Tyrol, the Julian March, Istria, the Kvarner Gulf, and the Dalmatian city of Zara.
italy: Italy supported international efforts to reconstruct and stabilise Iraq, but it had withdrawn its military contingent of 3,200 troops by 2006.
italy: During the late 19th and 20th centuries, there were other movements that gained popularity, such as Ontologism, anarchism, communism, socialism, futurism, fascism, and Christian democracy.
italy: The largest lakes are, in descending size: Garda (367.94 km2 or 142 sq mi), Maggiore (212.51 km2 or 82 sq mi), and Como (145.9 km2 or 56 sq mi).
italy: Other ancient populations include the Rhaetian people and Camunni, known for their rock drawings in Valcamonica.
italy: Renewable sources account for 28% of all electricity produced, with hydro alone reaching 13%, followed by solar at 6%, wind at 4%, bioenergy at 3.5%, and geothermal at 1.6%.
italy: Ballet originated in Italy during the Renaissance, as an outgrowth of court pageantry.
italy: The Constitution of 1948 is the highest source.
italy: In 1883, Carlo Collodi published The Adventures of Pinocchio, which became the most celebrated children's classic by an Italian author and one of the world's most translated non-religious books.
italy: The remainder is primarily dedicated to pastures (26%) and feed grains (12%).
italy: This led to the migration of Greek scholars and texts to Italy, fuelling the rediscovery of Greek humanism.
italy: Humanist rulers such as Federico da Montefeltro and Pope Pius II worked to establish ideal cities, founding Urbino and Pienza.
italy: The long reign of the first emperor, Augustus, began an age of peace and prosperity.
italy: The Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso (LNGS) is the largest underground research centre in the world.
italy: Italian is often natively spoken as a regional dialect, not to be confused with Italy's regional and minority languages; however, during the 20th century, the establishment of a national education system led to a decrease in regional dialects.
italy: Conditions on the coast are different from those in the interior, particularly during winter when the higher altitudes tend to be cold, wet, and often snowy.
italy: While less capable of competing on quantity, it can compete with Asian economies that have lower labour costs through higher-quality products.
italy: Italy has become one of the world's largest producers of renewable energy, ranking as the second largest producer in the EU and the ninth in the world.
italy: Other famous wines are Barbaresco, Barbera d'Asti, Brunello di Montalcino, Frascati, Montepulciano d'Abruzzo, Morellino di Scansano, and the sparkling wines Franciacorta and Prosecco.
italy: In 1922, the Italian fascist dictatorship was established.
italy: Italian skiers achieve good results in Winter Olympic Games and the Alpine Ski World Cup.
italy: Fears of a Communist takeover proved crucial in 1948, when the Christian Democrats, under Alcide De Gasperi, won a landslide victory.
italy: As of 2025, Italy has 58,915,561 inhabitants.
italy: Italy is home to 395 Michelin star-rated restaurants.
italy: The national inland waterways network had a length of 2,400 km (1,491 mi) for commercial traffic in 2012.
italy: The public part is the Servizio Sanitario Nazionale, which is organised under the Ministry of Health and administered on a devolved regional basis.
italy: A popular achievement of Italian Renaissance architecture was St.
italy: In 1855, Sardinia became an ally of Britain and France in the Crimean War.
italy: The rest of the national demand is supplied by fossil fuels (natural gas 38%, coal 13%, oil 8%) and imports.
italy: Gelato, tiramisu, and cassata are among the most famous examples of Italian desserts.
italy: Eni, operating in 79 countries, is one of the seven "Big Oil" companies, and one of the world's largest industrial companies.
italy: The Apennine Mountains form the peninsula's backbone, and the Alps form most of its northern boundary, where Italy's highest point is located on the summit of Mont Blanc (Monte Bianco) at 4,810 m (15,780 ft).
italy: They were, however, defeated on the Eastern Front as well as in the East African and North African campaigns, losing their territories in Africa and the Balkans.
italy: As the country grew wealthier in the 1950s, a form of neorealism known as pink neorealism succeeded, and the commedia all'italiana genre and other film genres, such as sword-and-sandal and spaghetti Westerns, were popular in the 1960s and 70s.
italy: Italy is known as the birthplace of opera.
italy: Finally, in 1870, as France abandoned Rome during the Franco-Prussian War, the Italians captured the Papal States, unification was completed, and the capital moved to Rome.
italy: It will connect Calabria with Sicily when it opens in 2032, and it will become the longest suspension bridge in the world.
italy: Moderate natural gas reserves, mainly in the Po Valley and offshore under the Adriatic, have been discovered and constitute the country's most important mineral resource.
italy: Italy scored below the OECD average in reading and science, and near the OECD average in mathematics.
italy: Italy's climate is influenced by the seas that surround the country on every side except the north, which constitute a reservoir of heat and humidity.
italy: Italian medieval philosophy was mainly Christian, and included theologians such as Thomas Aquinas, a classical proponent of natural theology, who reintroduced Aristotelian philosophy to Christianity.
italy: High fertility rates persisted until the 1970s, after which they started to decline; the total fertility rate (TFR) reached an all-time low of 1.2 children per woman in 1995, well below the replacement rate of 2.1 and considerably below the high of 5 in 1883.
italy: From the late 19th to the early 20th century, Italy industrialised and acquired a colonial empire, while the south remained largely impoverished, fuelling a large immigrant diaspora to the Americas.
italy: According to legend, Romulus is said to have founded the city of Rome on 21 April 753 BC.
italy: Italian writers embraced Romanticism in the 19th century; it coincided with ideas of the Risorgimento, the movement that brought Italian unification.
italy: The widespread use of Romance languages derived from Latin, numerical system, modern Western alphabet and calendar, and the emergence of Christianity as a world religion, are among the many legacies of Roman dominance.
italy: They were independent thalassocratic city-states, in which merchants had considerable power.
italy: German troops, with RSI collaboration, committed massacres and deported thousands of Jews to death camps.
italy: The longest is the Po, which flows from the Alps on the western border, and crosses the Padan plain to the Adriatic.
italy: These actions attracted international attention and inspired similar dictatorships in Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan.
italy: The Italian national patronal day, on 4 October, celebrates Saints Francis and Catherine.
italy: The first adoption of the Italian tricolour by an Italian state, the Cispadane Republic, occurred during Napoleonic Italy, following the French Revolution, which advocated national self-determination.
italy: What remained of the Italian troops was organised into the Italian Co-belligerent Army, which fought alongside the Allies, while other Italian forces, loyal to Mussolini, opted to fight alongside the Germans in the National Republican Army.
italy: The north–south large difference in income leads to a "digital divide".
italy: In August 2006, Italy deployed about 2,450 troops for the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon.
italy: In 2010, the Italian military had 293,202 personnel on active duty, of which 114,778 are Carabinieri.
italy: Impressionism was brought from France to Italy by the Macchiaioli, and realism by Gioacchino Toma and Giuseppe Pellizza da Volpedo.
italy: An autonomous corps of the military, the Carabinieri are the gendarmerie and military police of Italy, policing the military and civilian population alongside Italy's other police forces.
italy: Italy has 1,371 endemic plant species and subspecies, which include Sicilian fir, Barbaricina columbine, Sea marigold, Lavender cotton, and Ucriana violet.
italy: The railway network, state-owned and operated by Rete Ferroviaria Italiana (FSI), in 2024 totalled 16,879 km (10,488 mi), of which 12,277 km (7,629 mi) is electrified, and on which 4,802 locomotives and railcars run.
italy: At its greatest extent, it had an area of 5 million square kilometres (1.9 million square miles).
italy: After improvements, Italy now ranks 84th in the world for ecological sustainability.
italy: Italy is a signatory to the Berne Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats and the Habitats Directive.
italy: It is well known for its creative and innovative businesses, a competitive agricultural sector, and its influential and high-quality automobile, machinery, food, design, and fashion industries.
italy: The Baroque period produced the clear scientific prose of Galileo.
italy: As a member of the EU and NATO, the Navy has participated in coalition peacekeeping operations worldwide.
italy: Italy is the world's largest wine producer, and a leading producer of olive oil, fruits (apples, olives, grapes, oranges, lemons, pears, apricots, hazelnuts, peaches, cherries, plums, strawberries, and kiwifruits), and vegetables (especially artichokes and tomatoes).
italy: Latin literature was, and is, highly influential, with numerous writers, poets, philosophers, and historians, such as Pliny the Elder, Pliny the Younger, Virgil, Horace, Propertius, Ovid, and Livy.
italy: Artists such as Masaccio, Filippo Lippi, Tintoretto, Sandro Botticelli, Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raphael, and Titian took painting to a higher level through the use of perspective.
italy: The president is elected for a single seven-year term by the Italian Parliament and regional voters in joint session.
italy: Italian explorers and navigators from the maritime republics, eager to find an alternative route to the Indies to bypass the Ottomans, offered their services to monarchs of Atlantic countries and played a key role in ushering the Age of Discovery and colonisation of the Americas.
italy: The alliance, however, collapsed in the 1490s; the invasion of Charles VIII of France initiated a series of wars in the peninsula.
italy: Renaissance authors' works include Niccolò Machiavelli's The Prince, an essay on political science in which the "effectual truth" is taken to be more important than any abstract ideal.
italy: In August 2025, the planned Strait of Messina Bridge was given final approval by the Meloni government, with construction set to commence in the autumn of 2025.
italy: The EU enlarged in 2004, in 2007 (Romania and Bulgaria), and in 2013 (Croatia).
italy: In 2013, UNESCO, prompted by Italy, added the Mediterranean diet to the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity of Italy, Morocco, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Cyprus, and Croatia.
italy: Milan and Turin are the nation's leaders in architectural and industrial design.
italy: In 2024, it stood at 1.2.
italy: The Rome Masters, founded in 1930, is one of the most prestigious tennis tournaments.
italy: The Christian Democrats, who had ruled for almost 50 years, underwent a crisis and disbanded, splitting into factions.
italy: The Supreme Court of Cassation is the highest court for both criminal and civil appeals.
italy: The most popular sport is football.
italy: Italy then allied with Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan, and strongly supported Francisco Franco in the Spanish Civil War.
italy: Guido Guinizelli is the founder of the Dolce Stil Novo, a school that added a philosophical dimension to love poetry.
italy: In place of the balanced compositions and rational approach to perspective that characterised art at the dawn of the 16th century, the Mannerists sought instability, artifice, and doubt.
italy: In the 1980s, the first star to emerge from Italian hip hop was singer Jovanotti.
italy: Italy is the leading cruise tourism destination in the Mediterranean.
italy: The main innovation of Italian Romanesque architecture was the vault, which had never been seen in Western architecture.
italy: Nuclear power in Italy was abandoned after 1987 referendums (in the wake of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster), although Italy still imports nuclear energy from Italy-owned reactors in foreign territories.
italy: The main historic peoples of possible non-Indo-European or pre-Indo-European heritage include the Etruscans, the Elymians and Sicani of Sicily, and the prehistoric Sardinians, who gave birth to the Nuragic civilisation.
italy: The first two centuries of the empire saw a period of unprecedented stability known as the Pax Romana (lit.
italy: The Po Valley is the largest plain, with 46,000 km2 (18,000 sq mi), and contains over 70% of the country's lowlands.
italy: A popular Italian genre, the Telefoni Bianchi, consisted of comedies with glamorous backgrounds.
italy: In 2022, Giorgia Meloni was sworn in as Italy's first female prime minister.
italy: From the late 1960s until the early 1980s, the country experienced the Years of lead, characterised by economic difficulties, especially after the 1973 oil crisis; social conflicts; and terrorist massacres.
italy: This allowed the Sardinian government to declare a united Italian kingdom on 17 March 1861, with Victor Emmanuel II as its first king.
italy: Galileo Galilei played a major role in the Scientific Revolution and is widely considered the father of observational astronomy, modern physics, and the scientific method.
italy: Four of these enjoy co-official status in their respective regions: French in the Aosta Valley; German in South Tyrol, and Ladin as well in some parts of the same province and in parts of the neighbouring Trentino; and Slovene in the provinces of Trieste, Gorizia, and Udine.
italy: The Italian meal structure is typical of the Mediterranean region and differs from North, Central, and East European meal structures, although it still often consists of breakfast (colazione), lunch (pranzo), and dinner (cena).
italy: During the Fascist period, the supposedly "Novecento movement" flourished, based on the rediscovery of imperial Rome.
italy: The Romans were famous for their oral tradition, poetry, drama, and epigrams.
italy: The first recorded commedia dell'arte performances came from Rome as early as 1551.
italy: Natale di Roma (lit.
italy: According to International IDEA's Global State of Democracy (GSoD) Indices and Democracy Tracker, Italy performs in the high range on overall democratic measures, with particular weaknesses in rule of law.
italy: Other Ethnologue, ISO, and UNESCO languages are not recognised under Italian law.
italy: In the wake of Julius Caesar's assassination in 44 BC, Rome grew into a massive empire stretching from Britain to the borders of Persia, engulfing the whole Mediterranean basin, in which Greek, Roman, and other cultures merged into a powerful civilisation.
italy: Teano was the site of a famous meeting between Garibaldi and Victor Emmanuel II, the last king of Sardinia, during which Garibaldi shook Victor Emanuel's hand and hailed him as King of Italy.
italy: The country boasts a wide range of vehicles, from mass market-oriented brands such as Fiat and premium brands like Alfa Romeo and Maserati to luxury supercars such as Pagani, Lamborghini, and Ferrari.
italy: Tertiary education is divided between public universities, private universities, and the prestigious and selective superior graduate schools, such as the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa.
italy: The same period saw diversification in the cinema of Italy, and Cinecittà films included complex scores by composers including Ennio Morricone.
italy: Late-morning and mid-afternoon snacks, called merenda (pl.: merende), are often included.
italy: Most rivers of Italy drain into the Adriatic or Tyrrhenian Sea.
italy: The economy recovered and Italy became the world's fifth-largest industrial nation after it gained entry into the G7 in the 1970s.
italy: Sardinia, Corsica, Sicily, and Malta were added to Italy by Diocletian in 292 AD, which made late-ancient Italy coterminous with the modern Italian geographical region.
italy: Italy has probably the highest level of faunal biodiversity in Europe, with over 57,000 species recorded, representing more than a third of all European fauna, and the highest level of biodiversity of animal and plant species within the EU.
italy: For this reason, the fascists engaged in interventionist foreign policy.
italy: In the 1950s, the number of international productions made there led to Rome's being dubbed "Hollywood on the Tiber".
italy: The Italian garden was influenced by Roman and Italian Renaissance gardens.
italy: The richest province, Alto Adige-South Tyrol, earns 152% of the national GDP per capita, while the poorest region, Calabria, earns 61%.
italy: Classical music has a strong hold in Italy, as evidenced by the fame of its opera houses, such as La Scala, and performers such as the pianist Maurizio Pollini and tenor Luciano Pavarotti.
italy: Cheese, cold cuts, and wine are central to Italian cuisine, with regional declinations and protected designation of origin or protected geographical indication labels, along with pizza and coffee forming part of gastronomic culture.
italy: Ancient Rome, a settlement on the River Tiber in central Italy, founded in 753 BC, was ruled for 244 years by a monarchical system.
italy: These are relatively low figures among developed countries.
italy: It has at its disposal Leopard 1 and M113 armoured vehicles.
italy: These princedoms were led by political dynasties and merchant families, such as the Medici of Florence.
italy: In the 1980s, until then a linguistically and culturally homogeneous society, Italy began to attract substantial flows of immigrants.
italy: Renaissance philosophers include: Giordano Bruno, a major scientific figure of the West; Marsilio Ficino, a humanist philosopher; and Niccolò Machiavelli, a founder of modern political science.
italy: Since 2005, military service has been voluntary.
italy: The Italian Renaissance flourished during the 15th and 16th centuries and spread to the rest of Europe.
italy: During the 2022 general election, these three and their coalitions won 357 of the 400 seats in the Chamber of Deputies, and 187 of 200 in the Senate.
italy: The Lombard kingdom was absorbed into Francia by Charlemagne in the late 8th century and became the Kingdom of Italy.
italy: In 1913, male universal suffrage was adopted.
italy: Italy's varied geography, including the Alps, Apennines, central Italian woodlands, and southern Italian Garigue and Maquis shrubland, contribute to habitat diversity.
italy: The president of Italy, Sergio Mattarella since 2015, is Italy's head of state.
italy: Roman art was influenced by Greece and can be taken as a descendant of ancient Greek painting.
italy: Tourist interest is mainly in culture, cuisine, history, architecture, art, religious sites and routes, wedding tourism, naturalistic beauties, nightlife, underwater sites, and spas.
italy: Romanesque architecture, which flourished from approximately 800 to 1100 AD, was one of the most fruitful and creative periods in Italian architecture, when masterpieces, such as the Leaning Tower of Pisa and the Basilica of Sant'Ambrogio in Milan, were built.
italy: The liberal establishment, fearing a Soviet-style revolution, started to endorse the small National Fascist Party, led by Mussolini.
italy: The fauna of Italy includes 4,777 endemic animal species, which include the Sardinian long-eared bat, Sardinian red deer, spectacled salamander, brown cave salamander, Italian newt, Italian frog, Apennine yellow-bellied toad, Italian wall lizard, and Sicilian pond turtle.
italy: In the 18th century, Italian Rococo was mainly inspired by French Rococo.
italy: The major political parties are the Brothers of Italy, Democratic Party, and Five Star Movement.
italy: In the 19th century, Romantic painters included Francesco Hayez and Francesco Podesti.
italy: Other prevalent mother tongues were Arabic (spoken by over 475,000; 13% of foreign residents), Albanian (380,000), and Spanish (255,000).
italy: The median disposable income was $27,949 per year in 2021 (PPP).
italy: Since 1985, Catholicism is no longer the state religion.
italy: The prime minister of Italy is head of government and has executive authority, but must receive a vote of approval from the Council of Ministers to execute most policies.
italy: Works by Alessandro Manzoni, the leading Italian Romantic, are a symbol of Italian unification for their patriotic message and because of his efforts in the development of modern, unified Italian.
italy: Italian metal bands include Rhapsody of Fire, Lacuna Coil, Elvenking, Forgotten Tomb, and Fleshgod Apocalypse.
italy: Saint Lucy's Day, on 13 December, is popular among children in some Italian regions, where she plays a role similar to Santa Claus.
italy: Italy has been a unitary parliamentary republic since 1946, when the monarchy was abolished.
italy: This development had notable social and political consequences, contributing to growing public debate over immigration and leading to a surge in support for populist parties.
italy: Other well-known mountains include the Matterhorn (Monte Cervino) in the western Alps, and the Dolomites in the eastern Alps.
italy: Since their appearance in the middle of the 19th century, Italian organised crime and criminal organisations have infiltrated the social and economic life of many regions in southern Italy; the most notorious is the Sicilian Mafia, which expanded into foreign countries, including the US.
italy: Instruments associated with classical music, including the piano and violin, were invented in Italy, and many prevailing forms, such as the symphony, concerto, and sonata, trace their roots back to innovations in 16th- and 17th-century Italian music.
italy: Italy joined the common European currency, the euro, in 2002.
italy: Italy is a recurrent non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
italy: A movement called futurism influenced literature in the early 20th century.
italy: The Medici Bank was made the credit institution of the Papacy, and significant ties were established between the Church and new political dynasties.
italy: Cavour agreed to include Garibaldi's southern Italy in a union with the Kingdom of Sardinia in 1860.
italy: Nearly half a million Italians died in the war, society was divided, and the economy all but destroyed – per capita income in 1944 was at its lowest point since 1900.
italy: Lower Paleolithic artefacts, dating back 850,000 years, have been recovered from Monte Poggiolo.
italy: The flora of Italy was traditionally estimated to comprise about 5,500 vascular plant species.
italy: Petrarch achieved fame through his collection of poems, Il Canzoniere.
italy: 98–117 AD), but a period of increasing trouble and decline began under Commodus (r.
italy: Italy is the twelfth-largest carbon dioxide producer.
italy: The law of Italy has several sources.
italy: An Allied invasion of Sicily began in July 1943, leading to the collapse of the Fascist regime on 25 July.
italy: It was legally merged into the administrative unit of Italy in 42 BC.
italy: A permanent association, with most of the local tribes and cities, was formed, and Rome began the conquest of Western Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East.
italy: The ancient peoples of pre-Roman Italy were Indo-European, specifically the Italic peoples.
italy: Italy entered into the First World War in 1915 with the aim of completing national unity, so it is also considered the Fourth Italian War of Independence, from a historiographical perspective, as the conclusion of the unification of Italy.
italy: Italy contributed to the development of disco and electronic music, with Italo disco, known for its futuristic sound and prominent use of synthesisers and drum machines, one of the earliest electronic dance genres.
italy: Sardinia's constitution was extended to all of Italy in 1861, and provided basic freedoms for the new state; but electoral laws excluded the non-propertied classes.
italy: It was formed in 1946, when Italy became a republic, from what remained of the "Royal Italian Army".
italy: Singers such as Domenico Modugno, Mina, Andrea Bocelli, Raffaella Carrà, Il Volo, Al Bano, Toto Cutugno, Nek, Umberto Tozzi, Giorgia, Grammy winner Laura Pausini, Eros Ramazzotti, Tiziano Ferro, Måneskin, and others have received international acclaim.
italy: Italy from the OECD
Italy country profile at the European Union website
 Wikimedia Atlas of Italy
 Geographic data related to Italy at OpenStreetMap
Key Development Forecasts for Italy from International Futures
Government website (in Italian)
Italian tourism official website
italy: The ceremony includes deposition of a wreath as a tribute to the Italian Unknown Soldier and a military parade along Via dei Fori Imperiali in Rome.
italy: Italy's National Day, the Festa della Repubblica ('Republic Day'), is celebrated on 2 June, with the main celebration taking place in Rome, and commemorates the birth of the Italian Republic in 1946.
italy: At this date, France practically had lost the Battle of France.
italy: Italy is constituted of 20 regions (regioni), five of which have special autonomous status which enables them to enact legislation on additional matters.
italy: The diaspora included more than 25 million Italians and is considered the greatest mass migration of recent times.
italy: There are senators for life, appointed by the president "for outstanding patriotic merits in the social, scientific, artistic or literary field".
italy: Alpine skiing is a widespread sport, and the country is a popular skiing destination.
italy: In 2014, the Navy operated 154 vessels in service, including minor auxiliary vessels.
italy: The coastal regions have mild winters, and hot and generally dry summers; lowland valleys are hot in summer.
italy: It possesses the ninth-largest national wealth and ranks third in central bank gold reserves.
italy: Italian architecture significantly evolved during the Renaissance.
italy: The country's area is 301,230 square kilometres (116,306 sq mi), of which 294,020 km2 (113,522 sq mi) is land and 7,210 km2 (2,784 sq mi) is water.
italy: Italy's male and female national volleyball teams are often featured among the world's best.
italy: Italy was the first country to build motorways, the autostrade, reserved for fast traffic and motor vehicles.
italy: Motorsports are popular.
italy: Ionians, Doric colonists, Syracusans, and the Achaeans founded various cities.
italy: Bocconi University, the Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, LUISS, the Polytechnic University of Turin, the Polytechnic University of Milan, the Sapienza University of Rome, and the University of Milan are also ranked among the best.
italy: While different branches of the Carabinieri report to separate ministries, the corps reports to the Ministry of Internal Affairs when maintaining public order and security.
italy: Cesare Beccaria was a significant Enlightenment figure and a father of classical criminal theory and penology.
italy: 1814's Congress of Vienna restored the situation of the late 18th century, but the ideals of the French Revolution could not be eradicated, and re-surfaced during the political upheavals that characterised the early 19th century.
italy: For Italy, this was to study ancient architecture, local culture, and admire its natural beauty.
italy: Most Catholics are nominal; Associated Press described Italian Catholicism as "nominally embraced but rarely lived".
italy: Compared to other Western countries, Italy has a low rate of adult obesity (below 10%), as the health benefits of the Mediterranean diet are very significant.
italy: The pre-World War I period was dominated by Giovanni Giolitti, prime minister five times between 1892 and 1921.
italy: In 2013, Italy had 5,296 troops deployed abroad, engaged in 33 UN and NATO missions in 25 countries.
italy: The proportion of daily smokers was 22% in 2012, down from 24% in 2000 but above the OECD average.
italy: The coastal areas of Liguria, Tuscany, and most of the south generally fit the Mediterranean climate stereotype, as in the Köppen climate classification.
italy: Law enforcement is complex with multiple police forces.
italy: In 2005, about 34,667,000 cars (590 per 1,000 people) and 4,015,000 goods vehicles circulated on the network.
italy: It is recognised as a sovereign entity, headed by the pope, who is also the Bishop of Rome, with which diplomatic relations can be maintained.
italy: Some of Italy's territory extends beyond the Alpine basin, and some islands are located outside the Eurasian continental shelf.
italy: Italy has won, by far, the most MotoGP World Championships.
italy: The men's team won three consecutive World Championships (in 1990, 1994, and 1998).
italy: The best-known maritime republics were Venice, Genoa, Pisa, and Amalfi.
italy: In 1752, Luigi Vanvitelli began the construction of the Royal Palace of Caserta.
italy: This new understanding of love, expressed in a smooth style, influenced the Florentine poet Dante Alighieri, who established the basis of modern Italian.
italy: Italian cuisine relies heavily on traditional products; the country has a large number of traditional specialties protected under EU law.
italy: Venice and Genoa were Europe's gateways to the East, and producers of fine glass, while Florence was a centre of silk, wool, banking, and jewellery.
italy: Mafia receipts may reach 9% of GDP.
italy: The most visited regions are Veneto, Tuscany, Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna, and Lazio.
italy: The Republican Constitution was approved in 1948.
italy: As a result of these trends, Italy's population is rapidly aging and gradually shrinking.
italy: Italy provides support for NATO and UN operations in Bosnia, Kosovo, and Albania, and deployed over 2,000 troops to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) from 2003.
italy: Italy has a strong cooperative sector with the largest share in the EU of the population (4.5%) employed by a cooperative.
italy: However, healthcare is provided to all citizens and residents by a mixed public-private system.
italy: This, together with emigration before and after World War II, has left around 28,000 Jews.
italy: After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the Ostrogothic Kingdom of Italy was created.
italy: Dante's work, Divine Comedy, is among the finest in literature.
italy: The Army is the national ground defence force.
italy: The oldest European avant-garde cinema movement, Italian futurism, took place in the late 1910s.
italy: Italy has historically been dominated by Catholicism.
italy: Erotic Italian thrillers, or gialli, produced by directors such as Dario Argento in the 1970s, influenced horror.
italy: Italy men's basketball team's best results were gold at EuroBasket 1983 and 1999, and silver at the 2004 Olympics.
italy: Italy is the most awarded country at the Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film, with 14 wins, 3 Special Awards, and 31 nominations.
italy: Public holidays include religious, national, and regional observances.
italy: Italian cinema began just after the Lumière brothers introduced motion picture exhibitions.
italy: Sardinia fought the Austrian Empire in the Second Italian War of Independence of 1859, with the aid of France, resulting in liberating Lombardy.
italy: Italy lost all colonial possessions, ending the Italian Empire.
italy: It was known for its usage of Roman arches, stained glass windows, and curved columns.
italy: From 1915 to 1918, Italy took part in World War I with the Entente against the Central Powers.
italy: Italy is a founding member of the European Economic Community (EEC), now the European Union (EU), and of NATO.
italy: Summers are hot across the country, except at high altitude, particularly in the south.
italy: The Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena is the world's oldest or second oldest bank in continuous operation, depending on the definition, and the fourth-largest Italian commercial and retail bank.
italy: The Mediterranean diet forms the basis of Italian cuisine, which is rich in pasta, fish, fruits, and vegetables and characterised by its simplicity and variety, with many dishes having only four to eight ingredients.
italy: An aspect of this period was the Italian civil war due to fighting between partisans and fascist RSI forces.
italy: The Greeks came to apply "Italia" to a larger region.
italy: Each had dominion over overseas lands, islands, lands on the Adriatic, Aegean, and Black seas, and commercial colonies in the Near East and North Africa.
italy: Primary school lasts eight years.
italy: Although oligarchical, the relative political freedom they afforded was conducive to academic and artistic advancement.
italy: During the 8th and 7th centuries, Greek colonies were established at Pithecusae, eventually extending along the south of the Italian Peninsula and the coast of Sicily, an area later known as Magna Graecia.
italy: The prime minister and cabinet are appointed by the president, and confirmed by a vote of confidence in parliament.
italy: Solar energy production alone accounted for 9% of electricity in 2014, making Italy the country with the highest contribution from solar energy in the world.
italy: To the north, from west to east, Italy borders France, Switzerland, Austria, and Slovenia, and is roughly delimited by the Alpine watershed, enclosing the Po Valley and the Venetian Plain.
italy: In the 1950s, Italy became a founding country of the European Communities, a forerunner of the European Union.
italy: A gaping north–south divide is a major factor of socio-economic weakness; there is a huge difference in official income between northern and southern regions and municipalities.
italy: Voters – disenchanted with political paralysis, massive public debt, and extensive corruption uncovered by the Clean Hands investigation – demanded radical reform.
italy: A wide gap exists between northern schools, which perform near average, and the south, which had much poorer results.
italy: In the last two decades of the 19th century, Italy developed into a colonial power by subjugating Eritrea, Somalia, Tripolitania, and Cyrenaica in Africa.
italy: After the end of the Western Schism, newly elected Pope Martin V returned to the Papal States and restored Italy as the sole centre of Western Christianity.
italy: Wind power, hydroelectricity, and geothermal power are significant sources of electricity in the country.
italy: The wealth generated enabled the commissioning of large public and private artistic projects.
italy: After its quick industrial growth, Italy took time to address its environmental problems.
italy: Andrea Palladio influenced architects throughout Western Europe with the villas and palaces he designed.
italy: Petrarch and Giovanni Boccaccio sought and imitated the works of antiquity and cultivated their own artistic personalities.
italy: The sovereign states of San Marino and Vatican City (the smallest country in the world and headquarters of the worldwide Catholic Church under the governance of the Holy See) are enclaves within Italy, while Campione d'Italia is an Italian exclave in Switzerland.
