javascript: If the expression is wrapped in parentheses - ({} + []) – the curly brackets are interpreted as an empty object and the result of the expression is "[object Object]" as expected.
javascript: JavaScript (JS) is a programming language and core technology of the Web, alongside HTML and CSS.
javascript: Although Java and JavaScript are similar in name and syntax, the two languages are distinct and differ greatly in design.
javascript: It is called "ASLR⊕Cache" or AnC.
javascript: Browser authors minimize this risk using two restrictions.
javascript: Another cross-site vulnerability is cross-site request forgery (CSRF).
javascript: In particular, all Java keywords were reserved in original JavaScript, JavaScript's standard library follows Java's naming conventions, and JavaScript's Math and Date objects are based on classes from Java 1.0.
javascript: This is because the addition operator doubles as a concatenation operator
The binary - operator always casts both operands to a number
Both unary operators (+, -) always cast the operand to a number.
javascript: Other notable ones include Angular, Bootstrap, Lodash, Modernizr, React, Underscore, and Vue.
javascript: For example, when adding a number to a string, the number will be cast to a string before performing concatenation, but when subtracting a number from a string, the string is cast to a number before performing subtraction.
javascript: However, it's generally considered bad practice to modify built-in objects, because third-party code may use or inherit methods and properties from these objects, and may not expect the prototype to be modified.
javascript: Arrow functions were first introduced in 6th Edition – ECMAScript 2015.
javascript: Some implications are:
javascript: Microsoft Windows allows JavaScript source files on a computer's hard drive to be launched as general-purpose, non-sandboxed programs (see: Windows Script Host).
javascript: One important solution to XSS vulnerabilities is HTML sanitization.
javascript: Most JavaScript-related security bugs are breaches of either the same origin policy or the sandbox.
javascript: The notable standalone runtimes are Node.js, Deno, and Bun.
javascript: The ECMAScript draft specification is currently maintained openly on GitHub, and editions are produced via regular annual snapshots.
javascript: However, Tamarin and ActionScript 3 were too different from established client-side scripting, and without cooperation from Microsoft, ECMAScript 4 never reached fruition.
javascript: Variables in JavaScript can be defined using either the var, let or const keywords.
javascript: Work on ECMAScript 4 began in 2000.
javascript: JavaScript has received criticism for the way it implements these conversions as the complexity of the rules can be mistaken for inconsistency.
javascript: These flaws have affected major browsers including Firefox, Internet Explorer, and Safari.
javascript: This led to the eventual agreement in early 2009 to combine all relevant work and drive the language forward.
javascript: jQuery is by far the most-used.
javascript: A common JavaScript-related security problem is cross-site scripting (XSS), a violation of the same-origin policy.
javascript: As a replacement Oracle offered GraalJS which can also be used with the OpenJDK  which allows one to create and reference Java objects in JavaScript code and add runtime scripting in JavaScript to applications written in Java.
javascript: Firefox was well received by many, taking significant market share from Internet Explorer.
javascript: In 2005, Jesse James Garrett released a white paper in which he coined the term Ajax and described a set of technologies, of which JavaScript was the backbone, to create web applications where data can be loaded in the background, avoiding the need for full page reloads.
javascript: Plus, with the rise of single-page applications and other JavaScript-heavy websites, several transpilers have been created to aid the development process.
javascript: Many new libraries were created, including jQuery, Prototype, Dojo Toolkit, and MooTools.
javascript: The methods introduced are: Promise.race, Promise.all, Promise.allSettled and Promise.any.
javascript: The website owner can use this data for analytics, ad tracking, and personalization.
javascript: JavaScript supports implicit and explicit delegation.
javascript: First, scripts run in a sandbox in which they can only perform Web-related actions, not general-purpose programming tasks like creating files.
javascript: In JavaScript, an object is an associative array, augmented with a prototype (see below); each key provides the name for an object property, and there are two syntactical ways to specify such a name: dot notation (obj.x = 10) and bracket notation (obj["x"] = 10).
javascript: More examples can be found at the Wikibooks page on JavaScript syntax examples.
javascript: In fact, these literals form the basis of the JSON data format.
javascript: One syntactic difference from C is automatic semicolon insertion, which allow semicolons (which terminate statements) to be omitted.
javascript: These engines are also utilized in some servers and a variety of apps.
javascript: For example, users of social media can send and receive messages without leaving the current page.
javascript: This caused tens of thousands of programs and websites depending upon his libraries to break.
javascript: Only correct design of Web applications on the server-side can fully prevent XSS.
javascript: JavaScript supports regular expressions for text searches and manipulation.
javascript: For example, a buffer overrun exploit can allow an attacker to gain access to the operating system's API with superuser privileges.
javascript: Java is loaded from compiled bytecode, while JavaScript is loaded as human-readable source code.
javascript: This occurred in March 2016 when Azer Koçulu removed his repository from npm.
javascript: Now, instead of edition numbers, developers check the status of upcoming features individually.
javascript: The script in this example can then access the banking application with the privileges of the victim, potentially disclosing secret information or transferring money without the victim's authorization.
javascript: Prototype pollution is a runtime vulnerability in which attackers can overwrite arbitrary properties in an object's prototype.
javascript: This means, for example, that JavaScript can process a mouse click while waiting for a database query to return information.
javascript: Checking the HTTP Referrer header can also help.
javascript: An indefinite number of parameters can be passed to a function.
javascript: Java's objects are class-based, while JavaScript's are prototype-based.
javascript: Some browsers include partial protection against reflected XSS attacks, in which the attacker provides a URL including malicious script.
javascript: JavaScript form validation only provides convenience for users, not security.
javascript: JavaScript includes an eval function that can execute statements provided as strings at run-time.
javascript: Zakas, Nicholas (2014).
javascript: This led to Mozilla working jointly with Macromedia (later acquired by Adobe Systems), who were implementing E4X in their ActionScript 3 language, which was based on an ECMAScript 4 draft.
javascript: These can then act as prototypes for even newer objects.
javascript: The number of cited reserved words including keywords is 50–60 and varies depending on the implementation.
javascript: A nested function is a function defined within another function.
javascript: Scripts are embedded in or included from HTML documents and interact with the DOM.
javascript: The constructor's prototype property determines the object used for the new object's internal prototype.
javascript: The lead developers of Mosaic then founded the Netscape corporation, which released a more polished browser, Netscape Navigator, in 1994.
javascript: In July 2008, these disparate parties came together for a conference in Oslo.
javascript: A type is associated with a value rather than an expression.
javascript: Variadic functions can also be created by using the bind method.
javascript: These differences made it difficult for developers to make their websites work well in both browsers, leading to widespread use of "best viewed in Netscape" and "best viewed in Internet Explorer" logos for several years.
javascript: As of 2025, the overwhelming majority of websites (98.9%) use JavaScript for client side webpage behavior.
javascript: A built-in Promise object provides functionality for handling promises and associating handlers with an asynchronous action's eventual result.
javascript: Async/await allows an asynchronous, non-blocking function to be structured in a way similar to an ordinary synchronous function.
javascript: The result was the ECMAScript 5 standard, released in December 2009.
javascript: Server-side usage eventually started to grow in the late 2000s, with the creation of Node.js and other approaches.
javascript: JavaScript engines are now embedded in a variety of other software systems, both for server-side website deployments and non-browser applications.
javascript: Note the comments in the examples above, all of which were preceded with two forward slashes.
javascript: A letter was circulated in September 2024, spearheaded by Ryan Dahl, calling on Oracle to free the JavaScript trademark.
javascript: It has application programming interfaces (APIs) for working with text, dates, regular expressions, standard data structures, and the Document Object Model (DOM).
javascript: Once the method is found it gets called within this object's context.
javascript: If a site verifies that the user agreed to its terms of service, or filters invalid characters out of fields that should only contain numbers, it must do so on the server, not only the client.
javascript: The function can access them through formal parameters and also through the local arguments object.
javascript: Arrow functions are anonymous, so a variable is needed to refer to them in order to invoke them after their creation, unless surrounded by parenthesis and executed immediately.
javascript: JavaScript and the DOM provide the potential for malicious authors to deliver scripts to run on a client computer via the Web.
javascript: It is a widely used format supported by many other programming languages.
javascript: The choice of the JavaScript name has caused confusion, implying that it is directly related to Java.
javascript: JavaScript is weakly typed, which means certain types are implicitly cast depending on the operation used.
javascript: There are subsets of general JavaScript—ADsafe, Secure ECMAScript (SES)—that provide greater levels of security, especially on code created by third parties (such as advertisements).
javascript: Constructors are declared by specifying a method named constructor, and all classes are automatically subclasses of the base class Object, similarly to Java.
javascript: Initial attempts at promoting server-side JavaScript usage were Netscape Enterprise Server and Microsoft's Internet Information Services, but they were small niches.
javascript: Private variables are declared by prefixing the field name with a number sign (#), and polymorphism is not directly supported, although it can be emulated by manually calling different functions depending on the number and type of arguments provided.
javascript: Web page animations, such as fading objects in and out, resizing, and moving them.
javascript: Generating pop-up ads or alert boxes.
javascript: The current JavaScript ecosystem has many libraries and frameworks, established programming practices, and substantial usage of JavaScript outside of web browsers.
javascript: JavaScript has been used in some embedded systems, usually by leveraging Node.js.
javascript: Possible solutions include:
javascript: In 2017, a JavaScript-based attack via browser was demonstrated that could bypass ASLR.
javascript: Sebastopol, California: O'Reilly.
javascript: Asynchronous, non-blocking code can be written, with minimal overhead, structured similarly to traditional synchronous, blocking code.
javascript: Oracle used to provide Nashorn, a JavaScript interpreter, as part of their Java Development Kit (JDK) API library along with jjs a command line interpreter as of JDK version 8.
javascript: Netscape management soon decided that the best option was for Eich to devise a new language, with syntax similar to Java and less like Scheme or other extant scripting languages.
javascript: By the early 2000s, Internet Explorer's market share reached 95%.
javascript: This sparked a renaissance period of JavaScript, spearheaded by open-source libraries and the communities that formed around them.
javascript: The key innovation was just-in-time compilation (JIT), so other browser vendors needed to overhaul their engines for JIT.
javascript: The author of an application should not assume that their JavaScript code will run as intended (or at all) because any secret embedded in the code could be extracted by a determined adversary.
javascript: All major web browsers have a built-in JavaScript engine that executes the code on the user's device.
javascript: On the JavaScript front, Microsoft created its own interpreter called JScript.
javascript: Microsoft first released JScript in 1996, alongside initial support for CSS and extensions to HTML.
javascript: The standards process continued for a few years, with the release of ECMAScript 2 in June 1998 and ECMAScript 3 in December 1999.
javascript: Unlike in many object-oriented languages, in JavaScript there is no distinction between a function definition and a method definition.
javascript: The trademark was originally issued to Sun Microsystems on 6 May 1997, and was transferred to Oracle when they acquired Sun in 2009.
javascript: What could be more object oriented than that?
javascript: In CSRF, code on an attacker's site tricks the victim's browser into taking actions the user did not intend at a target site (like transferring money at a bank).
javascript: Scripts can be selectively disabled, so JavaScript cannot be relied on to prevent operations such as right-clicking on an image to save it.
javascript: Rather, the distinction occurs during function calling.
javascript: The Modern JavaScript Tutorial.
javascript: A property may be added, rebound, or deleted at run-time.
javascript: It was removed in JDK 15.
javascript: Plugins, such as video players, Adobe Flash, and the wide range of ActiveX controls enabled by default in Microsoft Internet Explorer, may also have flaws exploitable via JavaScript (such flaws have been exploited in the past).
javascript: Flanagan, David (2020).
javascript: The call stack shrinks and grows based on the function's needs.
javascript: We don't need classes to make lots of similar objects...
javascript: It is created each time the outer function is invoked.
javascript: Variables defined without keywords will be defined at the global scope.
javascript: In Windows Vista, Microsoft has attempted to contain the risks of bugs such as buffer overflows by running the Internet Explorer process with limited privileges.
javascript: asm.js is a subset of JavaScript that served as the forerunner of WebAssembly.
javascript: The code can be obfuscated, but obfuscation can be reverse-engineered.
javascript: The binary + operator casts both operands to a string unless both operands are numbers.
javascript: Node combines the V8 engine, an event loop, and I/O APIs, thereby providing a stand-alone JavaScript runtime system.
javascript: They shorten the syntax for writing functions in JavaScript.
javascript: It has dynamic typing, prototype-based object-orientation, and first-class functions.
javascript: Like C, JavaScript makes a distinction between expressions and statements.
javascript: Website authors cannot perfectly conceal how their JavaScript operates because the raw source code must be sent to the client.
javascript: Thus inheritance in JavaScript is covered by a delegation automatism that is bound to the prototype property of constructor functions.
javascript: The differences between the two languages are more prominent than their similarities.
javascript: ISBN 978-1-491-95202-3.
javascript: In practice, the web browser or other runtime system provides JavaScript APIs for I/O.
javascript: This is misleading: the {} is interpreted as an empty code block instead of an empty object, and the empty array is cast to a number by the remaining unary + operator.
javascript: Created by Brendan Eich in 1995, it is maintained by Ecma International's TC39 technical committee, with related Web APIs maintained by W3C and WHATWG.
javascript: ECMAScript 5 offers the Object.create method, allowing explicit creation of an instance without automatically inheriting from the Object prototype (older environments can assign the prototype to null).
javascript: However, + always casts to Number (binary64) while - preserves BigInt (integer)
Values are cast to strings as follows:
javascript: There was a desire in the flourishing web development scene to remove this limitation, so in 1995, Netscape decided to add a programming language to Navigator.
javascript: It is multi-paradigm, supporting event-driven, functional, and imperative programming styles.
javascript: This quickly became the most-used.
javascript: Such systems allow a developer to easily manage their program's dependencies upon other developers' program libraries.
javascript: Although the new language and its interpreter implementation were called LiveScript when first shipped as part of a Navigator beta in September 1995, the name was changed to JavaScript for the official release in December.
javascript: Objects are mutable in JavaScript, so we can augment the new instances, giving them new fields and methods.
javascript: However, even users of those browsers are vulnerable to other XSS attacks, such as those where the malicious code is stored in a database.
javascript: Most properties of an object (and any property that belongs to an object's prototype inheritance chain) can be enumerated using a for...in loop.
javascript: Validating input values of a web form before the data is sent to a web server.
javascript: Developers trust that the maintainers of the libraries will keep them secure and up to date, but that is not always the case.
javascript: Microsoft initially participated in the standards process and implemented some proposals in its JScript language, but eventually it stopped collaborating on ECMA work.
javascript: Multiple options can be used in conjunction, such as jQuery and Bootstrap.
javascript: XSS vulnerabilities occur when an attacker can cause a target Website, such as an online banking website, to include a malicious script in the webpage presented to a victim.
javascript: This code is not by any means limited to another JavaScript application.
javascript: They pursued two routes to achieve this: collaborating with Sun Microsystems to embed the Java language, while also hiring Brendan Eich to embed the Scheme language.
javascript: Additionally, ECMAScript version 6 (released June 2015) introduced the keywords class, extends and super, which serve as syntactic sugar to abstract the underlying prototypal inheritance system with a more conventional interface.
javascript: "JavaScript: The First 20 Years".
javascript: ISBN 978-1-59327-540-2.
javascript: Haverbeke, Marijn (2024).
javascript: Each of these implementations was noticeably different from their counterparts in Netscape Navigator.
javascript: Often also mentioned is {} + [] resulting in 0 (number).
javascript: Playing browser games.
javascript: Logging data about the user's behavior then sending it to a server.
javascript: When the call stack is empty upon function completion, JavaScript proceeds to the next message in the queue.
javascript: This is called the event loop, described as "run to completion" because each message is fully processed before the next message is considered.
javascript: Like in many scripting languages, arrays and objects (associative arrays in other languages) can each be created with a succinct shortcut syntax.
javascript: JavaScript provides an interface to a wide range of browser capabilities, some of which may have flaws such as buffer overflows.
javascript: JavaScript: The Definitive Guide (7th ed.).
javascript: No Starch Press.
javascript: XSS vulnerabilities can also occur because of implementation mistakes by browser authors.
javascript: Stand-alone profiling libraries have also been created, such as benchmark.js and jsbench.
javascript: The runtime system includes the necessary APIs for input/output operations, such as networking, storage, and graphics, and provides the ability to import scripts.
javascript: JavaScript supports much of the structured programming syntax from C (e.g., if statements, while loops, switch statements, do while loops, etc.).
javascript: Both languages first appeared in 1995, but Java was developed by James Gosling of Sun Microsystems and JavaScript by Brendan Eich of Netscape Communications.
javascript: Eloquent JavaScript (PDF) (4th ed.).
javascript: Redirecting a user to another page.
javascript: As such, a function may have properties and methods, such as .call() and .bind().
javascript: Java has static typing, while JavaScript's typing is dynamic.
javascript: One partial exception is scoping: originally JavaScript only had function scoping with var; block scoping was added in ECMAScript 2015 with the keywords let and const.
javascript: "JavaScript hijacking" is a type of CSRF attack in which a <script> tag on an attacker's site exploits a page on the victim's site that returns private information such as JSON or JavaScript.
javascript: array comprehensions and generator expressions (like Python)
concise function expressions (function(args) expr; this experimental syntax predated arrow functions)
ECMAScript for XML (E4X), an extension that adds native XML support to ECMAScript (unsupported in Firefox since version 21)
javascript: This started to change in 2004, when the successor of Netscape, Mozilla, released the Firefox browser.
javascript: JavaScript natively supports various function-based implementations of Role patterns like Traits and Mixins.
javascript: Finally, Java did not support functional programming until Java 8, while JavaScript has done so from the beginning, being influenced by Scheme.
javascript: As of 2018, Node had been used by millions of developers, and npm had the most modules of any package manager in the world.
javascript: In addition, each nested function forms a lexical closure: the lexical scope of the outer function (including any constant, local variable, or argument value) becomes part of the internal state of each inner function object, even after execution of the outer function concludes.
javascript: The goal was a "language for the masses", "to help nonprogrammers create dynamic, interactive Web sites".
javascript: This makes JavaScript (like VBScript) a theoretically viable vector for a Trojan horse, although JavaScript Trojan horses are uncommon in practice.
javascript: JavaScript also supports anonymous functions.
javascript: JavaScript functions are first-class; a function is considered to be an object.
javascript: requiring an authentication token in the POST and GET parameters for any response that returns private information.
javascript: Static program analysis tools, such as ESLint and JSLint, scan JavaScript code for conformance to a set of standards and guidelines.
javascript: Archived (PDF) from the original on 12 March 2025.
javascript: In November 1996, Netscape submitted JavaScript to Ecma International, as the starting point for a standard specification that all browser vendors could conform to.
javascript: The most popular runtime system for non-browser usage is Node.js.
javascript: This led to the official release of the first ECMAScript language specification in June 1997.
javascript: Relied-upon libraries can have new releases that cause bugs or vulnerabilities to appear in all programs that rely upon the libraries.
javascript: Potential revisions to the language are vetted through a comprehensive proposal process.
javascript: Google debuted its Chrome browser in 2008, with the V8 JavaScript engine that was faster than its competition.
javascript: For example, a variable initially bound to a number may be reassigned to a string.
javascript: In general, the solution to CSRF is to require an authentication value in a hidden form field, and not only in the cookies, to authenticate any request that might have lasting effects.
javascript: Electron, Cordova, React Native, and other application frameworks have been used to create many applications with behavior implemented in JavaScript.
javascript: Controlling the playback of streaming media.
javascript: Web browsers have a dedicated JavaScript engine that executes the client code.
javascript: JavaScript supports various ways to test the type of objects, including duck typing.
javascript: When a function is called as a method of an object, the function's local this keyword is bound to that object for that invocation.
javascript: In a study done looking over a sample of 133,000 websites, researchers found 37% of the websites included a library with at least one known vulnerability.
javascript: JavaScript is a single-threaded language.
javascript: JavaScript uses prototypes where many other object-oriented languages use classes for inheritance, but it's still possible to simulate most class-based features with the prototype system.
javascript: Google Chrome similarly confines its page renderers to their own "sandbox".
javascript: In Windows XP Service Pack 2, Microsoft demoted JScript's privileges in Internet Explorer.
javascript: Brendan Eich, the original creator of JavaScript, was among the over 14,000 signatories who supported the initiative.
javascript: When target sites rely solely on cookies for request authentication, requests originating from code on the attacker's site can carry the same valid login credentials of the initiating user.
javascript: It is considered very bad practice to embed sensitive information such as passwords in JavaScript because it can be extracted by an attacker.
javascript: Closure Toolkit is another project for safe embedding and isolation of third-party JavaScript and HTML.
javascript: Second, scripts are constrained by the same-origin policy: scripts from one website do not have access to information such as usernames, passwords, or cookies sent to another site.
javascript: JavaScript is dynamically typed like most other scripting languages.
javascript: At the time, the dot-com boom had begun and Java was a popular new language, so Eich considered the JavaScript name a marketing ploy by Netscape.
javascript: They are also typically sandboxed, and JavaScript was designed with Java's syntax and standard library in mind.
javascript: Storing and retrieving data on the user's device, via the storage or IndexedDB standards.
javascript: JavaScript supplies combinator methods, which allow developers to combine multiple JavaScript promises and do operations based on different scenarios.
javascript: All of the major JavaScript engines support WebAssembly, which runs in the same sandbox as regular JavaScript code.
javascript: Prefixing a function call with new will create an instance of a prototype, inheriting properties and methods from the constructor (including properties from the Object prototype).
javascript: The ECMAScript standard does not include any input/output (I/O), such as networking, storage, or graphics facilities.
javascript: Here is an example of JavaScript syntax.
javascript: A vulnerability has emerged because of this blind trust.
javascript: Objects inherit from objects.
javascript: Retrieved 6 February 2022.
javascript: However, the effort to fully standardize the language was undermined by Microsoft gaining an increasingly dominant position in the browser market.
javascript: In 2005, Mozilla joined ECMA International, and work started on the ECMAScript for XML (E4X) standard.
javascript: Many text editors have syntax highlighting support for JavaScript code.
javascript: Meanwhile, very important developments were occurring in open-source communities not affiliated with ECMA work.
javascript: These processes can be modified by defining toString and valueOf functions on the prototype for string and number casting respectively.
javascript: TypeScript and CoffeeScript are two notable languages that transpile to JavaScript.
javascript: However, the language's concurrency model describes the event loop as non-blocking: program I/O is performed using events and callback functions.
javascript: Other non-browser applications include Adobe Acrobat support for scripting PDF documents and GNOME Shell extensions written in JavaScript.
javascript: In 2018, the paper that announced the Spectre attacks against Speculative Execution in Intel and other processors included a JavaScript implementation.
javascript: During these formative years of the Web, web pages could only be static, lacking the capability for dynamic behavior after the page was loaded in the browser.
javascript: Content Security Policy is the main intended method of ensuring that only trusted code is executed on a Web page.
javascript: Such a function defines additional behavior by at least one method bound to the this keyword within its function body.
javascript: Principles of Object-Oriented JavaScript (1st ed.).
javascript: make new instances.
javascript: As of 2025, JavaScript is the most widely used programming language on GitHub.
javascript: New methods can be added by modifying the prototype of the function used as a constructor.JavaScript's built-in classes, such as Array and Object, also have prototypes that can be modified.
javascript: However, the term "Vanilla JS" was coined for websites not using any libraries or frameworks at all, instead relying entirely on standard JavaScript functionality.
javascript: A Role then has to be delegated explicitly via call or apply to objects that need to feature additional behavior that is not shared via the prototype chain.
javascript: Such privileges are not intended to be granted to code from the Web.
javascript: Incorrectly granting privileges to JavaScript from the Web has played a role in vulnerabilities in both Internet Explorer and Firefox.
javascript: Every major web browser has built-in web development tools, including a JavaScript debugger.
javascript: Some browsers have built-in profilers.
javascript: San Francisco: No Starch Press.
javascript: The creation of Node.js in 2009 by Ryan Dahl sparked a significant increase in the usage of JavaScript outside of web browsers.
javascript: You make prototype objects, and then ...
javascript: Both indeed have a C-like syntax (the C language being their most immediate common ancestor language).
javascript: A community maintained continuously updated collection of tutorials on the entirety of the language.
javascript: The runtime processes messages from a queue one at a time, and it calls a function associated with each new message, creating a call stack frame with the function's arguments and local variables.
javascript: Thus ECMAScript 4 was mothballed.
javascript: ISBN 978-1-71850-411-0.
javascript: Inversely, a library can go unpatched with known vulnerabilities out in the wild.
javascript: These flaws can allow attackers to write scripts that would run any code they wish on the user's system.
javascript: This meant that JScript became the de facto standard for client-side scripting on the Web.
javascript: Though the underlying object mechanism is still based on prototypes, the newer syntax is similar to other object oriented languages.
javascript: The goal became standardizing ActionScript 3 as the new ECMAScript 4.
javascript: JavaScript is a high-level, often just-in-time–compiled language that conforms to the ECMAScript standard.
javascript: To this end, Adobe Systems released the Tamarin implementation as an open source project.
