jazz: These younger rising stars rejected avant-garde approaches and instead championed the acoustic jazz sound of Charlie Parker, Thelonious Monk and early recordings of the first Miles Davis quintet.
jazz: Other younger performers, such as singer Big Joe Turner and saxophonist Louis Jordan, who were discouraged by bebop's increasing complexity, pursued more lucrative endeavors in rhythm and blues, jump blues, and eventually rock and roll.
jazz: As noted above, jazz has incorporated from its inception aspects of African-American sacred music including spirituals and hymns.
jazz: Some of the earliest [Mississippi] Delta settlers came from the vicinity of New Orleans, where drumming was never actively discouraged for very long and homemade drums were used to accompany public dancing until the outbreak of the Civil War.
jazz: Perhaps the most respected Afro-cuban jazz combo of the late 1950s was vibraphonist Cal Tjader's band.
jazz: ISBN 0-1950-7675-3.
jazz: Urbana and Chicago: University of Illinois Press.
jazz: Typically, the band would only play an even-eighth "Latin" feel in the A section of the head and swing throughout all of the solos.
jazz: ISBN 978-0-6797-6539-4.
jazz: The last four measures of Scott Joplin's "Maple Leaf Rag" (1899) are shown below.
jazz: When male jazz musicians were drafted during World War II, many all-female bands replaced them.
jazz: In 1926, Fred Elizalde and His Cambridge Undergraduates began broadcasting on the BBC.
jazz: In 1905, he composed "Jelly Roll Blues", which became the first jazz arrangement in print when it was published in 1915.
jazz: Others from Chicago such as Benny Goodman and Gene Krupa became leading members of swing during the 1930s.
jazz: The album was a culmination of sorts of the musique concrète approach that Davis and producer Teo Macero had begun to explore in the late 1960s.
jazz: military overseas to Europe, where it also became popular.
jazz: If the progression begins on the "two-side", it is in 2–3 clave.
jazz: In 1966 Joe Masters recorded "Jazz Mass" for Columbia Records.
jazz: Jazz fusion often uses mixed meters, odd time signatures, syncopation, complex chords, and harmonies.
jazz: These divergences from the jazz mainstream of the time met a divided, sometimes hostile response among fans and musicians, especially swing players who bristled at the new harmonic sounds.
jazz: To hostile critics, bebop seemed filled with "racing, nervous phrases".
jazz: Female jazz performers and composers have contributed to jazz throughout its history.
jazz: In developing his late style, Coltrane was especially influenced by the dissonance of Ayler's trio with bassist Gary Peacock and drummer Sunny Murray, a rhythm section honed with Cecil Taylor as leader.
jazz: The origin of the word jazz has resulted in considerable research, and its history is well documented.
jazz: But despite the friction, by the 1950s bebop had become an accepted part of the jazz vocabulary.
jazz: Includes a 120-page interview with Hines plus many photos.
jazz: Some elements of the genre were simplified from their bebop roots.
jazz: London: Thames and Hudson.
jazz: Tresillo is heard prominently in New Orleans second line music and in other forms of popular music from that city from the turn of the 20th century to present.
jazz: In New York, No Wave took direct inspiration from both free jazz and punk.
jazz: UPC 4-006408-264637.
jazz: Foreword by Abbe Niles.
jazz: As Kubik explains:
jazz: Mario Bauzá introduced bebop innovator Dizzy Gillespie to Cuban conga drummer and composer Chano Pozo.
jazz: Divorcing itself from dance music, bebop established itself more as an art form, thus lessening its potential popular and commercial appeal.
jazz: Louis Blues" and others, included the habanera rhythm, and would become jazz standards.
jazz: Jazz is characterized by swing and blue notes, complex chords, call and response vocals, polyrhythms and improvisation.
jazz: OL 4118244M.
jazz: Goodman was the leader of a racially integrated band named King of Swing.
jazz: Critic Aaron J.
jazz: In the early 1980s, a commercial form of jazz fusion called smooth jazz became successful, garnering significant radio airplay.
jazz: An eminent example of composers of the jazz mass was Mary Lou Williams.
jazz: The Original Dixieland Jass Band made the music's first recordings early in 1917, and their "Livery Stable Blues" became the earliest released jazz record.
jazz: These work songs were commonly structured around a repetitive call-and-response pattern, but early blues was also improvisational.
jazz: Petaluma, California: Sher Music.
jazz: "Auditory inclinations were the African legacy in [Parker's] life, reconfirmed by the experience of the blues tonal system, a sound world at odds with the Western diatonic chord categories.
jazz: In the studio, he all but abandoned his soprano to concentrate on the tenor saxophone.
jazz: "Manteca" (1947) is the first jazz standard to be rhythmically based on clave.
jazz: Since the 1950s, sacred and liturgical music has been performed and recorded by many prominent jazz composers and musicians.
jazz: Ward, Geoffrey C.; Burns, Ken (2000).
jazz: Jazz pianist, theorist, and educator Mark Levine refers to the scale generated by beginning on the fifth step of a pentatonic scale as the V pentatonic scale.
jazz: New Orleans jazz, performers took turns playing melodies and improvising countermelodies.
jazz: Father of the Blues: An Autobiography.
jazz: In New Orleans, a white bandleader named Papa Jack Laine integrated blacks and whites in his marching band.
jazz: The relaxation of orthodoxy which was concurrent with post-punk in London and New York City led to a new appreciation of jazz.
jazz: Jazz rap developed in the late 1980s and early 1990s and incorporates jazz influences into hip-hop.
jazz: The piece begins with the bass repeatedly playing 6 cross-beats per each measure of 128, or 6 cross-beats per 4 main beats—6:4 (two cells of 3:2).
jazz: Musicians using this approach include Pat Metheny, John Abercrombie, John Scofield and the Swedish group e.s.t.
jazz: British jazz began with a tour by the Original Dixieland Jazz Band in 1919.
jazz: "By and large the simpler African rhythmic patterns survived in jazz ...
jazz: New Orleans was the main nexus between the Afro-Caribbean and African American cultures.
jazz: "Footprints" is not, however, a Latin jazz tune: African rhythmic structures are accessed directly by Ron Carter (bass) and Tony Williams (drums) via the rhythmic sensibilities of swing.
jazz: Till then, however, I had never heard this slur used by a more sophisticated Negro, or by any white man.
jazz: Prior to his death in 1974 in response to contacts from Grace Cathedral in San Francisco, Duke Ellington wrote three Sacred Concerts: 1965 – A Concert of Sacred Music; 1968 – Second Sacred Concert; 1973 – Third Sacred Concert.
jazz: His Royal Canadians Orchestra specialized in performances of "the Sweetest music this side of Heaven" which transcended racial boundaries.
jazz: Although it was a collective sound, swing also offered individual musicians a chance to "solo" and improvise melodic, thematic solos which could at times be complex "important" music.
jazz: Connick had success on the pop charts after recording the soundtrack to the movie When Harry Met Sally, which sold over two million copies.
jazz: The swing-era jazz of the previous decade had challenged other popular music as being representative of the nation's culture, with big bands reaching the height of the style's success by the early 1940s; swing acts and big bands traveled with U.S.
jazz: Music Outside: Contemporary Jazz in Britain.
jazz: Louis Armstrong started his career in Storyville and found success in Chicago.
jazz: Steve Coleman's music and M-Base concept gained recognition as "next logical step" after Charlie Parker, John Coltrane, and Ornette Coleman.
jazz: Jazz fusion appeared in the late 1960s and early 1970s, combining jazz improvisation with rock music's rhythms, electric instruments, and highly amplified stage sound.
jazz: In 2013, Versace put forth bassist Ike Sturm and New York composer Deanna Witkowski as contemporary exemplars of sacred and liturgical jazz.
jazz: This was driven in large part by record company reissues of jazz classics by the Oliver, Morton, and Armstrong bands of the 1930s.
jazz: During the early 19th century an increasing number of black musicians learned to play European instruments, particularly the violin, which they used to parody European dance music in their own cakewalk dances.
jazz: There are quite a few [accounts] from the southeastern states and Louisiana dating from the period 1820–1850.
jazz: Its composition and style have changed many times throughout the years with each performer's personal interpretation and improvisation, which is also one of the greatest appeals of the genre.
jazz: This was the birth of Afro-Cuban jazz.
jazz: Further leaders of hard bop's development included the Clifford Brown/Max Roach Quintet, Art Blakey's Jazz Messengers, the Horace Silver Quintet, and trumpeters Lee Morgan and Freddie Hubbard.
jazz: The slashed noteheads indicate the main beats (not bass notes), where one ordinarily taps their foot to "keep time".
jazz: According to Ted Gioia:the very leaders of the avant garde started to signal a retreat from the core principles of free jazz.
jazz: The two main categories of Latin jazz are Afro-Cuban jazz and Brazilian jazz.
jazz: The emergence of young jazz talent beginning to perform in older, established musicians' groups further impacted the resurgence of traditionalism in the jazz community.
jazz: A contemporary account states that blues could only be heard in jazz in the gut-bucket cabarets, which were generally looked down upon by the Black middle-class.
jazz: An 1885 account says that they were making strange music (Creole) on an equally strange variety of 'instruments'—washboards, washtubs, jugs, boxes beaten with sticks or bones and a drum made by stretching skin over a flour-barrel.
jazz: The use of the word in a musical context was documented as early as 1915 in the Chicago Daily Tribune.
jazz: In the 1960s and 1970s, many jazz musicians had only a basic understanding of Cuban and Brazilian music, and jazz compositions which used Cuban or Brazilian elements were often referred to as "Latin tunes", with no distinction between a Cuban son montuno and a Brazilian bossa nova.
jazz: John Storm Roberts states that the musical genre habanera "reached the U.S.
jazz: Black pianists played in bars, clubs, and brothels, as ragtime developed.
jazz: twenty years before the first rag was published." For the more than quarter-century in which the cakewalk, ragtime, and proto-jazz were forming and developing, the habanera was a consistent part of African-American popular music.
jazz: Although most often performed in a concert setting rather than church worship setting, this form has many examples.
jazz: The beginnings of a distinct European style of jazz began to emerge in this interwar period.
jazz: Africa and the Blues.
jazz: It introduced more musicians to the New Orleans style.
jazz: Early examples are Herbie Hancock's Headhunters band and Miles Davis's On the Corner album, which, in 1972, began Davis's foray into jazz-funk and was, he claimed, an attempt at reconnecting with the young black audience which had largely forsaken jazz for rock and funk.
jazz: African-American music began incorporating Afro-Cuban rhythmic motifs in the 19th century when the habanera (Cuban contradanza) gained international popularity.
jazz: Two contributors to In a Silent Way also joined organist Larry Young to create one of the early acclaimed fusion albums: Emergency!
jazz: It was not uncommon during the 1960s and 1970s to hear a conga playing a Cuban tumbao while the drumset and bass played a Brazilian bossa nova pattern.
jazz: In the 1990s, most M-Base participants turned to more conventional music, but Coleman, the most active participant, continued developing his music in accordance with the M-Base concept.
jazz: It also incorporated interpretations of American and European classical music, entwined with African and slave folk songs and the influences of West African culture.
jazz: Furthermore, I question the assumption that smooth jazz is an unfortunate and unwelcomed evolutionary outcome of the jazz-fusion era.
jazz: Handy wrote about his adopting of the blues:
jazz: Latin jazz is jazz that employs Latin American rhythms and is generally understood to have a more specific meaning than simply jazz from Latin America.
jazz: Later many other jazz artists borrowed from black gospel music.
jazz: It built on the avant-garde experiments which Joe Zawinul and Shorter had pioneered with Miles Davis on Bitches Brew, including an avoidance of head-and-chorus composition in favor of continuous rhythm and movement – but took the music further.
jazz: In the 1930s, Kansas City Jazz as exemplified by tenor saxophonist Lester Young marked the transition from big bands to the bebop influence of the 1940s.
jazz: Since the 1920s Jazz Age, it has been recognized as a major form of musical expression in traditional and popular music.
jazz: Women began playing instruments in jazz in the early 1920s, drawing particular recognition on piano.
jazz: They were playing all the flatted fifth chords and all the modern harmonies and substitutions and Dizzy Gillespie runs in the trumpet section work.
jazz: Chick Corea similarly began exploring jazz standards in the 1980s, having neglected them for the 1970s.
jazz: Storyville brought jazz to a wider audience through tourists who visited the port city of New Orleans.
jazz: The difference was in how you got from here to here to here...naturally each age has got its own shit."
Since bebop was meant to be listened to, not danced to, it could use faster tempos.
jazz: Since the 1960s, creative centers of jazz in Europe have developed, such as the creative jazz scene in Amsterdam.
jazz: Bebop scales are traditional scales with an added chromatic passing note; bebop also uses "passing" chords, substitute chords, and altered chords.
jazz: The African use of pentatonic scales contributed to the development of blue notes in blues and jazz.
jazz: Music organized around key patterns convey a two-celled (binary) structure, which is a complex level of African cross-rhythm.
jazz: Gillespie's collaboration with Pozo brought specific African-based rhythms into bebop.
jazz: jazz-rock briefly suggested the promise of doing the same" with albums such as Williams's Emergency!
jazz: The African Matrix in Jazz Harmonic Practices".
jazz: Beginning in 1914, Louisiana Creole and African-American musicians played in vaudeville shows which carried jazz to cities in the northern and western parts of the U.S.
jazz: Coltrane studied Nicolas Slonimsky's Thesaurus of Scales and Melodic Patterns, which contains material that is virtually identical to portions of "Giant Steps".
jazz: Elsdon, Peter (2003).
jazz: Henry van Dyke of Princeton University wrote, "...
jazz: It is characterized by melisma, wavy intonation, pitch instabilities within a pentatonic framework, and a declamatory voice.
jazz: (no ISBN in this first printing).
jazz: Other innovators in this style include Jackie McLean, and two of the musicians who had also played on Kind of Blue: John Coltrane and Bill Evans.
jazz: By 1924, one of Armstrong's favorite "sweet jazz" big bands was also formed in Canada by Guy Lombardo.
jazz: Rapper Guru's Jazzmatazz series began in 1993 using jazz musicians during the studio recordings.
jazz: These included Joan Chamorro, a bassist and bandleader based in Barcelona whose big band and jazz combo videos have received tens of millions of views on YouTube, and Emmet Cohen, who broadcast a series of performances live from New York starting in March 2020.
jazz: By the late 1940s, Louis Armstrong's Allstars band became a leading ensemble.
jazz: Afro-Creole pianist Jelly Roll Morton began his career in Storyville.
jazz: The album featured a softer sound than would be the case in later years (predominantly using acoustic bass with Shorter exclusively playing soprano saxophone, and with no synthesizers involved), but is still considered a classic of early fusion.
jazz: The mid-1950s saw the emergence of hard bop, which introduced influences from rhythm and blues, gospel, and blues to small groups and particularly to saxophone and piano.
jazz: The bassist Charles Mingus is also frequently associated with the avant-garde in jazz, although his compositions draw from myriad styles and genres.
jazz: Kubik, Gerhard (1999).
jazz: Usually such music was associated with annual festivals, when the year's crop was harvested and several days were set aside for celebration.
jazz: And it is also true that Duke Ellington adopted and reinterpreted some harmonic devices in European contemporary music.
jazz: I thought I was writing an eight-bar bridge, but ...
jazz: The harmonic development in bebop is often traced back to a moment experienced by Charlie Parker while performing "Cherokee" at Clark Monroe's Uptown House, New York, in early 1942.
jazz: The following example shows the original ostinato "Afro Blue" bass line.
jazz: While bossa nova has been labeled as jazz by music critics, namely those from outside of Brazil, it has been rejected by many prominent bossa nova musicians such as Jobim, who once said "Bossa nova is not Brazilian jazz."
jazz: Key figures in this development were largely based in New York and included pianists Thelonious Monk and Bud Powell, drummers Max Roach and Kenny Clarke, saxophonist Charlie Parker, and trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie.
jazz: Today, the word 'jazz' is virtually meaningless without further definition.
jazz: As the example below shows, the second half of the big four pattern is the habanera rhythm.
jazz: In February 1918 during World War I, James Reese Europe's "Hellfighters" infantry band took ragtime to Europe, then on their return recorded Dixieland standards including "Darktown Strutters' Ball".
jazz: In spite of all this, he has expressed himself in a significant and, on the whole, highly original form.
jazz: For example, on a 1959 live Tjader recording of "A Night in Tunisia", pianist Vince Guaraldi soloed through the entire form over an authentic mambo.
jazz: Another feature is the shift of emphasis from improvisation to composition: arrangements, melody and overall writing became important.
jazz: Noted for its "frenetic energy" and "clanging cowbell and polyrhythmic accompaniment," the composition combined Afro-Cuban rhythm with polytonality and preceded further use of modality and avant-garde harmony in Latin jazz.
jazz: This approach can be heard on pre-1980 recordings of "Manteca", "A Night in Tunisia", "Tin Tin Deo", and "On Green Dolphin Street".
jazz: Coleman's audience decreased, but his music and concepts influenced many musicians, according to pianist Vijay Iver and critic Ben Ratlifff of The New York Times.
jazz: Jazz began to be recognized as a notable musical form.
jazz: Abandoning the conventions of swing, he experimented with orchestral sounds, harmony, and musical form with complex compositions that still translated well for popular audiences; some of his tunes became hits, and his own popularity spanned from the United States to Europe.
jazz: But by the end of the 1970s, a new generation of New York City musicians had emerged who were fluent in both salsa dance music and jazz, leading to a new level of integration of jazz and Cuban rhythms.
jazz: Superimposing the pentatonic scale over "Giant Steps" is not merely a matter of harmonic simplification, but also a sort of "Africanizing" of the piece, which provides an alternate approach for soloing.
jazz: New York: Macmillan Company.
jazz: Hard bop was prevalent within jazz for about a decade spanning from 1955 to 1965, but has remained highly influential on mainstream or "straight-ahead" jazz.
jazz: While swing was reaching the height of its popularity, Duke Ellington spent the late 1920s and 1930s in Washington, D.C.'s jazz scene, developing an innovative musical idiom for his orchestra.
jazz: Levine points out that the V pentatonic scale works for all three chords of the standard II–V–I jazz progression.
jazz: Modal jazz is a development which began in the later 1950s which takes the mode, or musical scale, as the basis of musical structure and improvisation.
jazz: In the 1960s, exponents included Albert Ayler, Gato Barbieri, Carla Bley, Don Cherry, Larry Coryell, John Coltrane, Bill Dixon, Jimmy Giuffre, Steve Lacy, Michael Mantler, Sun Ra, Roswell Rudd, Pharoah Sanders, and John Tchicai.
jazz: McCoy Tyner perfected the use of the pentatonic scale in his solos, and also used parallel fifths and fourths, which are common harmonies in West Africa.
jazz: His first theme ...
jazz: A broader definition that encompasses different eras of jazz has been proposed by Travis Jackson: "it is music that includes qualities such as swing, improvising, group interaction, developing an 'individual voice', and being open to different musical possibilities".
jazz: Several members of the orchestra remained with him for several decades.
jazz: Its roots are in blues, ragtime, European harmony, African rhythmic rituals, spirituals, hymns, marches, vaudeville song, and dance music.
jazz: Trombonist Melba Liston is acknowledged as the first female horn player to work in major bands and to make a real impact on jazz, not only as a musician but also as a respected composer and arranger, particularly through her collaborations with Randy Weston from the late 1950s into the 1990s.
jazz: Brazilian jazz, such as bossa nova, is derived from samba, with influences from jazz and other 20th-century classical and popular music styles.
jazz: The classical performer's goal is to play the composition as it was written.
jazz: His band is credited with creating the big four: the first syncopated bass drum pattern to deviate from the standard on-the-beat march.
jazz: Gillespie recounted: "If I'd let it go like [Chano] wanted it, it would have been strictly Afro-Cuban all the way.
jazz: The primitive southern Negro, as he sang, was sure to bear down on the third and seventh tone of the scale, slurring between major and minor.
jazz: It was based on Charlie Parker's composition "Billie's Bounce", jumbled together in a way that fused clave and bebop horn lines.
jazz: Visions of Jazz: The First Century.
jazz: The Making of Jazz: A Comprehensive History.
jazz: His jazz concert in the Carnegie Hall in 1938 was the first ever to be played there.
jazz: Amiri Baraka argues that there is a "white jazz" genre that expresses whiteness.
jazz: The abolition of slavery in 1865 led to new opportunities for the education of freed African Americans.
jazz: Attempts have been made to define jazz from the perspective of other musical traditions, such as European music history or African music.
jazz: The Chicago Style was developed by white musicians such as Eddie Condon, Bud Freeman, Jimmy McPartland, and Dave Tough.
jazz: Since the beginning of the 1990s, electronic music had significant technical improvements that popularized and created new possibilities for the genre.
jazz: By 1866, the Atlantic slave trade had brought nearly 400,000 Africans to North America.
jazz: In Ohio and elsewhere in the mid-west the major influence was ragtime, until about 1919.
jazz: New York: Viking.
jazz: Levine, Mark (1995).
jazz: From 1920 to 1933, Prohibition in the United States banned the sale of alcoholic drinks, resulting in illicit speakeasies which became lively venues of the "Jazz Age", hosting popular music, dance songs, novelty songs, and show tunes.
jazz: Even the 1980s music of Miles Davis, although certainly still fusion, adopted a far more accessible and recognizably jazz-oriented approach than his abstract work of the mid-1970s, such as a return to a theme-and-solos approach.
jazz: Regarding the Dixieland jazz revival of the 1940s, Black musicians rejected it as being shallow nostalgia entertainment for white audiences.
jazz: Jazz became international in 1914, when the Creole Band with cornettist Freddie Keppard performed the first ever jazz concert outside the United States, at the Pantages Playhouse Theatre in Winnipeg, Canada.
jazz: ISBN 978-3-9901-2980-7
Nairn, Charlie.
jazz: Ragtime appeared as sheet music, popularized by African-American musicians such as the entertainer Ernest Hogan, whose hit songs appeared in 1895.
jazz: Arna Bontemps (ed.).
jazz: It received some criticism, however, for its failure to reflect the many distinctive non-American traditions and styles in jazz that had developed, and its limited representation of US developments in the last quarter of the 20th century.
jazz: The Jazz Singer with Al Jolson is one example of how Jewish Americans were able to bring jazz, music that African Americans developed, into popular culture.
jazz: YouTube phenomenon Jacob Collier also gained recognition for his ability to play an incredibly large number of instruments and his ability to use microtones, advanced polyrhythms, and blend a spectrum of genres in his largely homemade production process.
jazz: The Great Jazz Interviews: Frank Alkyer & Ed Enright (eds).
jazz: While pushing the boundaries of harmonic improvisation, cu-bop also drew from African rhythm.
jazz: African-based rhythmic patterns such as tresillo and its variants, the habanera rhythm and cinquillo, are heard in the ragtime compositions of Joplin and Turpin.
jazz: ISBN 978-0-5002-0318-7..
jazz: In that same year, saxophonist Kamasi Washington released his nearly three-hour long debut, The Epic.
jazz: It has been described as "funky" and can be considered a relative of soul jazz.
jazz: According to Bruce Johnson, there has always been a "tension between jazz as a commercial music and an art form".
jazz: Supergroup Snarky Puppy adopted this trend, allowing players like Cory Henry to shape the grooves and harmonies of modern jazz soloing.
jazz: He also recorded compositions written by his bandsmen, such as Juan Tizol's "Caravan" and "Perdido", which brought the "Spanish Tinge" to big-band jazz.
jazz: This musical development became known as bebop.
jazz: The jazz performer interprets a tune in individual ways, never playing the same composition twice.
jazz: By the 18th century, slaves in the New Orleans area gathered socially at a special market, in an area which later became known as Congo Square, famous for its African dances.
jazz: While Coltrane used over-blowing frequently as an emotional exclamation-point, Sanders would opt to overblow his entire solo, resulting in a constant screaming and screeching in the altissimo range of the instrument.
jazz: Many of the rural blues of the Deep South are stylistically an extension and merger of basically two broad accompanied song-style traditions in the west central Sudanic belt:
A strongly Arabic/Islamic song style, as found for example among the Hausa.
jazz: In the early 1980s, a commercial form of jazz fusion called "pop fusion" or "smooth jazz" became successful, garnering significant radio airplay in "quiet storm" time slots at radio stations in urban markets across the U.S.
jazz: Delta Music plc.
jazz: Tjader had Mongo Santamaria, Armando Peraza, and Willie Bobo on his early recording dates.
jazz: Ned Sublette postulates that the tresillo/habanera rhythm "found its way into ragtime and the cakewalk," whilst Roberts suggests that "the habanera influence may have been part of what freed black music from ragtime's European bass".
jazz: The second group of revivalists consisted of younger musicians, such as those in the Lu Watters band, Conrad Janis, and Ward Kimball and his Firehouse Five Plus Two Jazz Band.
jazz: It is believed to be related to jasm, a slang term dating back to 1860 meaning 'pep, energy'.
jazz: Comparing the music of New Orleans with the music of Cuba, Wynton Marsalis observes that tresillo is the New Orleans "clavé", a Spanish word meaning "code" or "key", as in the key to a puzzle, or mystery.
jazz: Within the context of jazz, however, harmony is the primary referent, not rhythm.
jazz: The earliest written record of the word is in a 1912 article in the Los Angeles Times in which a minor league baseball pitcher described a pitch which he called a 'jazz ball' "because it wobbles and you simply can't do anything with it".
jazz: The modal theory stems from a work by George Russell.
jazz: Downbeat (2009).
jazz: Cuban percussionist Mongo Santamaria first recorded his composition "Afro Blue" in 1959.
jazz: In the bebop era of the 1940s, big bands gave way to small groups and minimal arrangements in which the melody was stated briefly at the beginning and most of the piece was improvised.
jazz: The rhythm section plays chords and rhythms that outline the composition structure and complement the soloist.
jazz: The most prominent form of sacred and liturgical jazz is the jazz mass.
jazz: Two years later, Vess Ossman recorded a medley of these songs as a banjo solo known as "Rag Time Medley".
jazz: This helped to establish or bolster the careers of vocalists including Al Jarreau, Anita Baker, Chaka Khan, and Sade, as well as saxophonists including Grover Washington Jr., Kenny G, Kirk Whalum, Boney James, and David Sanborn.
jazz: The "Abyssinian Mass" by Wynton Marsalis (Blueengine Records, 2016) is a recent example.
jazz: Dave Liebman later called it "the torch that lit the free jazz thing".
jazz: Jazz: A History of America's Music (1st ed.).
jazz: European contemporary jazz was shaped by Peter Brötzmann, John Surman, Krzysztof Komeda, Zbigniew Namysłowski, Tomasz Stańko, Lars Gullin, Joe Harriott, Albert Mangelsdorff, Kenny Wheeler, Graham Collier, Michael Garrick and Mike Westbrook.
jazz: Armstrong, perhaps more than any other musician, codified the rhythmic technique of swing in jazz and broadened the jazz solo vocabulary.
jazz: ISBN 978-1-8832-1704-4.
jazz: Weather Report's subsequent releases were creative funk-jazz works.
jazz: An alternative view is that jazz can absorb and transform diverse musical styles.
jazz: ISBN 978-1-8865-0280-2.
jazz: These bands traveled in black communities in the deep south.
jazz: Shep Fields also helped to popularize sweet jazz through his appearances and big band remote broadcasts from such landmark venues as Chicago's Palmer House, Broadway's Paramount Theater and the Starlight Roof at the famed Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
jazz: New York: Oxford University Press.
jazz: Litweiler, John (1984).
jazz: In avant-garde and free jazz, the separation of soloist and band is reduced, and there is license, or even a requirement, for the abandoning of chords, scales, and meters.
jazz: It went into decline in the late 1960s through the 1970s due to the emergence of other styles such as jazz fusion, but again became influential following the Young Lions Movement and the emergence of neo-bop.
jazz: These included many musicians from his orchestra, some of whom are considered among the best in jazz in their own right, but it was Ellington who melded them into one of the most popular jazz orchestras in the history of jazz.
jazz: Gilberto's initial releases, and the 1959 film Black Orpheus, achieved significant popularity in Latin America; this spread to North America via visiting American jazz musicians.
jazz: Much of this French jazz was a combination of African-American jazz and the symphonic styles in which French musicians were well-trained; in this, it is easy to see the inspiration taken from Paul Whiteman since his style was also a fusion of the two.
jazz: Composer Gunther Schuller wrote: "In 1943 I heard the great Earl Hines band which had Bird in it and all those other great musicians.
jazz: Two years later I read that that was 'bop' and the beginning of modern jazz ...
jazz: Since the 1990s, jazz has been characterized by a pluralism in which no one style dominates, but rather a wide range of styles and genres are popular.
jazz: The outbreak of World War II marked a turning point for jazz.
jazz: John Zorn took note of the emphasis on speed and dissonance that was becoming prevalent in punk rock, and incorporated this into free jazz with the release of the Spy vs.
jazz: Records in 1960 and turning it into "the house that Trane built", while championing many younger free jazz musicians, notably Archie Shepp, who often played with trumpeter Bill Dixon, who organized the 4-day "October Revolution in Jazz" in Manhattan in 1964, the first free jazz festival.
jazz: The Clave Matrix; Afro-Cuban Rhythm: Its Principles and African Origins.
jazz: Redway, CA: Bembe Inc.
jazz: The centrality of improvisation is attributed to the influence of earlier forms of music such as blues, a form of folk music which arose in part from the work songs and field hollers of African-American slaves on plantations.
jazz: In fact, if you can't manage to put tinges of Spanish in your tunes, you will never be able to get the right seasoning, I call it, for jazz."
An excerpt of "New Orleans Blues" is shown below.
jazz: Handy became interested in folk blues of the Deep South while traveling through the Mississippi Delta.
jazz: Other musicians who had experimented with electronic instruments in the previous decade had abandoned them by the 1980s; for example, Bill Evans, Joe Henderson, and Stan Getz.
jazz: This occurred in parallel with developments in Cuba The first Cuban band of this new wave was Irakere.
jazz: Louis way, it was always the same.
jazz: Tucker, Mark, ed.
jazz: and the first to travel with the USO, touring Europe in 1945.
jazz: Even as late as 2000, in Mark Gridley's Jazz Styles: History and Analysis, a bossa nova bass line is referred to as a "Latin bass figure".
jazz: Since the 1990s Keith Jarrett has defended free jazz from criticism.
jazz: The following pentatonic lick was played over blues changes by Joe Henderson on Horace Silver's "African Queen" (1965).
jazz: The 1980s saw something of a reaction against the fusion and free jazz that had dominated the 1970s.
jazz: Williams converted to Catholicism in 1957, and proceeded to compose three masses in the jazz idiom.
jazz: Johnson's development of stride piano playing, in which the right hand plays the melody, while the left hand provides the rhythm and bassline.
jazz: Examples of this style include Lydia Lunch's Queen of Siam, Gray, the work of James Chance and the Contortions (who mixed Soul with free jazz and punk) and the Lounge Lizards (the first group to call themselves "punk jazz").
jazz: London: Northway.
jazz: While for an outside observer, the harmonic innovations in bebop would appear to be inspired by experiences in Western "serious" music, from Claude Debussy to Arnold Schoenberg, such a scheme cannot be sustained by the evidence from a cognitive approach.
jazz: Another influence came from the harmonic style of hymns of the church, which black slaves had learned and incorporated into their own music as spirituals.
jazz: During the same year, Bessie Smith made her first recordings.
jazz: The music I was really listening to in 1968 was James Brown, the great guitar player Jimi Hendrix, and a new group who had just come out with a hit record, "Dance to the Music", Sly and the Family Stone ...
jazz: Cornetist Buddy Bolden played in New Orleans from 1895 to 1906.
jazz: Crossover success has also been achieved by Diana Krall, Norah Jones, Cassandra Wilson, Kurt Elling, and Jamie Cullum.
jazz: Jelly Roll Morton called the rhythmic figure the Spanish tinge and considered it an essential ingredient of jazz.
jazz: Hal Leonard Books.
jazz: In the late 1970s, however, a resurgence of younger jazz players in Blakey's band began to occur.
jazz: According to Gillespie, Pozo composed the layered, contrapuntal guajeos (Afro-Cuban ostinatos) of the A section and the introduction, while Gillespie wrote the bridge.
jazz: OL 8685294M.
jazz: From the perspective of African-American music, the "habanera rhythm" (also known as "congo"), "tango-congo", or tango.
jazz: The group's evolution can be traced through the recordings The John Coltrane Quartet Plays, Living Space and Transition (both June 1965), New Thing at Newport (July 1965), Sun Ship (August 1965), and First Meditations (September 1965).
jazz: Among these musicians were Jazz Messenger alumni Benny Green, Branford Marsalis and Ralph Peterson Jr., as well as Kenny Washington, Lewis Nash, Curtis Lundy, Cyrus Chestnut, Mark Shim, Craig Handy, Greg Hutchinson and Marc Cary, Taurus Mateen and Geri Allen.
jazz: Women were members of the big bands of Woody Herman and Gerald Wilson.
jazz: "Review: The Cambridge Companion to Jazz, edited by Mervyn Cooke and David Horn".
jazz: In 1924, Louis Armstrong joined the Fletcher Henderson dance band for a year, as featured soloist.
jazz: Suddenly jazz was no longer straightforward.
jazz: It came alive." Gerhard Kubik postulates that harmonic development in bebop sprang from blues and African-related tonal sensibilities rather than 20th-century Western classical music.
jazz: Jazz is difficult to define because it encompasses a wide range of music spanning a period of over 100 years, from ragtime to rock-infused fusion.
jazz: As jazz spread around the world, it drew on national, regional, and local musical cultures, which gave rise to different styles.
jazz: This style entered full swing in France with the Quintette du Hot Club de France, which began in 1934.
jazz: These musicians helped change attitudes toward race in the U.S.
jazz: Although jazz rap had achieved little mainstream success, Miles Davis's final album Doo-Bop (released posthumously in 1992) was based on hip-hop beats and collaborations with producer Easy Mo Bee.
jazz: Small bands contained a combination of self-taught and formally educated musicians, many from the funeral procession tradition.
jazz: Olin Downes, reviewing the concert in The New York Times, wrote, "This composition shows extraordinary talent, as it shows a young composer with aims that go far beyond those of his ilk, struggling with a form of which he is far from being master.
jazz: Gang Starr's debut LP No More Mr.
jazz: Artists such as Squarepusher, Aphex Twin, Flying Lotus and sub genres like IDM, drum 'n' bass, jungle and techno ended up incorporating a lot of these elements.
jazz: Instead, I argue that smooth jazz is a long-lived musical style that merits multi-disciplinary analyses of its origins, critical dialogues, performance practice, and reception.
jazz: Schuller, Gunther.
jazz: Through the 1950s and 1960s, Dixieland was one of the most commercially popular jazz styles in the US, Europe, and Japan, although critics paid little attention to it.
jazz: In a 2013 doctoral dissertation, Angelo Versace examined the development of sacred jazz in the 1950s using disciplines of musicology and history.
jazz: is no mere dance-tune ...
jazz: The World of Earl Hines.
jazz: These included Buddy Bolden and Jelly Roll Morton in addition to those from other communities, such as Lorenzo Tio and Alcide Nunez.
jazz: to experience American music firsthand.
jazz: ISBN 978-0-3068-0377-2.
jazz: Older musicians who still performed their pre-war jazz, such as Armstrong and Ellington, were gradually viewed in the mainstream as passé.
jazz: Meyer and Arthur Johnston (top), compared with Armstrong's solo improvisations (below) (recorded 1924).
jazz: Bix Beiderbecke formed The Wolverines in 1924.
jazz: It was performed once in 1975 in St Patrick's Cathedral in New York City.
jazz: Although jazz is considered difficult to define, in part because it contains many subgenres, improvisation is one of its defining elements.
jazz: But people also have the erroneous impression that the music was new.
jazz: Cecil Taylor played duets in concert with Mary Lou Williams, and let her set out structured harmonies and familiar jazz vocabulary under his blistering keyboard attack.
jazz: Soloists improvised within these arrangements.
jazz: In early Dixieland, a.k.a.
jazz: As well as the electric instruments of rock (such as electric guitar, electric bass, electric piano and synthesizer keyboards), fusion also used the powerful amplification, "fuzz" pedals, wah-wah pedals and other effects that were used by 1970s-era rock bands.
jazz: Other styles and genres abound in the 21st century, such as Latin and Afro-Cuban jazz.
jazz: The Freedom Principle: Jazz After 1958.
jazz: Some, including Gillespie, composed intricate yet danceable pieces for bebop musicians in an effort to make them more accessible, but bebop largely remained on the fringes of American audiences' purview.
jazz: Modal jazz abandoned chord progressions to allow musicians to improvise even more.
jazz: By avoiding the creation of norms, jazz allows avant-garde styles to emerge.
jazz: Other examples include "Jazz Mass in Concert" by Lalo Schiffrin (Aleph Records, 1998, UPC 0651702632725) and "Jazz Mass" by Vince Guaraldi (Fantasy Records, 1965).
jazz: 2nd edition.
jazz: In 1988, Gang Starr released the debut single "Words I Manifest", which sampled Dizzy Gillespie's 1962 "Night in Tunisia", and Stetsasonic released "Talkin' All That Jazz", which sampled Lonnie Liston Smith.
jazz: And the next generation of progressive players would be even more accommodating, moving inside and outside the changes without thinking twice.
jazz: The Baltimore rag style of Eubie Blake influenced James P.
jazz: Da Capo Press.
jazz: Mark Levine observes that when mixed in with more conventional "playing the changes", pentatonic scales provide "structure and a feeling of increased space".
jazz: Concise Guide to Jazz, fourth edition.
jazz: Many jazz musicians from African-American communities were hired to perform in bars and brothels.
jazz: It can be very experimental in nature and can vary widely in sound and concept.
jazz: To emphasize the group's rejection of standard methodology, the album opened with the inscrutable avant-garde atmospheric piece "Milky Way", which featured by Shorter's extremely muted saxophone inducing vibrations in Zawinul's piano strings while the latter pedaled the instrument.
jazz: This group of "Young Lions" sought to reaffirm jazz as a high art tradition comparable to the discipline of classical music.
jazz: According to AllMusic:
jazz: In the same year, Sonny Sharrock, Peter Brötzmann, Bill Laswell, and Ronald Shannon Jackson recorded the first album under the name Last Exit, a similarly aggressive blend of thrash and free jazz.
jazz: Latin jazz specialists like Cal Tjader tended to be the exception.
jazz: Giddins, Gary (1998).
jazz: Secular jazz musicians often performed renditions of spirituals and hymns as part of their repertoire or isolated compositions such as "Come Sunday", part of "Black and Beige Suite" by Duke Ellington.
jazz: Its first documented use in a musical context in New Orleans was in a November 14, 1916, Times-Picayune article about "jas bands".
jazz: It was their live performances which inspired European audiences' interest in jazz, as well as the interest in all things American (and therefore exotic) which accompanied the economic and political woes of Europe during this time.
jazz: This aspect of swing is far more prevalent in African-American music than in Afro-Caribbean music.
jazz: The Swing Era: The Development of Jazz, 1930–1945.
jazz: Archived from the original on November 1, 2013.
jazz: Other jazz musicians gained popularity through social media during the 2010s and 2020s.
jazz: On his 1961 tour of France, he was booed, but persevered, signing with the new Impulse!
jazz: A similar reaction took place against free jazz.
jazz: Benny Goodman was a vital Jewish American to the progression of Jazz.
jazz: Beginning in 1904, he toured with vaudeville shows to southern cities, Chicago, and New York City.
jazz: Although strict segregation limited employment opportunities for most blacks, many were able to find work in entertainment.
jazz: Vienna: Hollitzer (=Studies in Jazz Research Vol.
jazz: Krin Gabbard argued that "jazz is a construct" which designates "a number of musics with enough in common to be understood as part of a coherent tradition".
jazz: I could hear it sometimes.
jazz: "Tanga" began as a spontaneous descarga (Cuban jam session), with jazz solos superimposed on top.
jazz: Squarepusher being cited as one big influence for jazz performers drummer Mark Guiliana and pianist Brad Mehldau, showing the correlations between jazz and electronic music are a two-way street.
jazz: Their "Chékere-son" (1976) introduced a style of "Cubanized" bebop-flavored horn lines that departed from the more angular guajeo-based lines which were typical of Cuban popular music and Latin jazz up until that time.
jazz: British writer Stuart Nicholson has argued European contemporary jazz has an identity different from American jazz and follows a different trajectory.
jazz: Jewish Americans played a significant role in jazz.
jazz: In addition, Betty Carter's rotation of young musicians in her group foreshadowed many of New York's preeminent traditional jazz players later in their careers.
jazz: As disenfranchised minorities themselves, Jewish composers of popular music saw themselves as natural allies with African Americans.
jazz: During 1974–1976, they were members of one of Eddie Palmieri's most experimental salsa groups: salsa was the medium, but Palmieri was stretching the form in new ways.
jazz: Bebop and subsequent post-war jazz developments featured a wider set of notes, played in more complex patterns and at faster tempos than previous jazz.
jazz: The bossa nova style was pioneered by Brazilians João Gilberto and Antônio Carlos Jobim and was made popular by Elizete Cardoso's recording of "Chega de Saudade" on the Canção do Amor Demais LP.
jazz: The M-Base movement started in the 1980s, when a loose collective of young African-American musicians in New York that included Steve Coleman, Greg Osby, and Gary Thomas developed a complex but grooving sound.
jazz: The leader of New Orleans's Camelia Brass Band, D'Jalma Ganier, taught Louis Armstrong to play trumpet; Armstrong would then popularize the New Orleans style of trumpet playing, and then expand it.
jazz: It was spelled 'J-A-S-S'.
jazz: Kubik wrote:
jazz: In an interview with National Public Radio, musician Eubie Blake offered his recollections of the slang connotations of the term, saying: "When Broadway picked it up, they called it 'J-A-Z-Z'.
jazz: New Orleans native Louis Moreau Gottschalk's piano piece "Ojos Criollos (Danse Cubaine)" (1860) was influenced by the composer's studies in Cuba: the habanera rhythm is clearly heard in the left hand.
jazz: In 1918, Paul Whiteman and his orchestra became a hit in San Francisco.
jazz: Retrieved April 30, 2013.
jazz: They were eager to develop approaches to music that reflected their heritage.
jazz: He often composed for the style and skills of these individuals, such as "Jeep's Blues" for Johnny Hodges, "Concerto for Cootie" for Cootie Williams (which later became "Do Nothing Till You Hear from Me" with Bob Russell's lyrics), and "The Mooche" for Tricky Sam Nanton and Bubber Miley.
jazz: There are historical accounts of other music and dance gatherings elsewhere in the southern United States.
jazz: A more precise term might be Afro-Latin jazz, as the jazz subgenre typically employs rhythms that either have a direct analog in Africa or exhibit an African rhythmic influence beyond what is ordinarily heard in other jazz.
jazz: Tresillo (shown below) is the most basic and most prevalent duple-pulse rhythmic cell in sub-Saharan African music traditions and the music of the African Diaspora.
jazz: ISBN 0-1318-2657-3
Hendler, Maximilian (2023).
jazz: The International Sweethearts of Rhythm, which was founded in 1937, was a popular band that became the first all-female integrated band in the U.S.
jazz: The origins of the blues are undocumented, though they can be seen as the secular counterpart of the spirituals.
jazz: Joplin's "Solace" (1909) is generally considered to be in the habanera genre: both of the pianist's hands play in a syncopated fashion, completely abandoning any sense of a march rhythm.
jazz: Like Jelly Roll Morton, Armstrong is also credited with the abandonment of ragtime's stiffness in favor of swung notes.
jazz: ensemble included a rotation of young jazz musicians such as Kenny Garrett, Steve Wilson, Kenny Davis, Renee Rosnes, Ralph Peterson Jr., Billy Drummond, and Robert Hurst.
jazz: West Coast jazz would run into such debts as would several forms of cool jazz, but bebop has hardly any such debts in the sense of direct borrowings.
jazz: The Original Dixieland Jazz Band, whose members were white, were the first jazz group to record, and Bix Beiderbecke was one of the most prominent jazz soloists of the 1920s.
jazz: On the version recorded on Miles Smiles by Miles Davis, the bass switches to a 44 tresillo figure at 2:20.
jazz: Previously, a solo was meant to fit into a given chord progression, but with modal jazz, the soloist creates a melody using one (or a small number of) modes.
jazz: In 1987, the United States House of Representatives and Senate passed a bill proposed by Democratic Representative John Conyers Jr.
jazz: ISBN 978-1-4234-6384-9
Gridley, Mark C.
jazz: Black musicians were able to provide entertainment in dances, minstrel shows, and in vaudeville, during which time many marching bands were formed.
jazz: Schuller, Gunther (1986) [1968].
jazz: In general, smooth jazz is downtempo (the most widely played tracks are of 90–105 beats per minute), and has a lead melody-playing instrument (saxophone, especially soprano and tenor, and legato electric guitar are popular).
jazz: I had to keep going and ended up writing a sixteen-bar bridge." The bridge gave "Manteca" a typical jazz harmonic structure, setting the piece apart from Bauza's modal "Tanga" of a few years earlier.
jazz: The track "So What" has only two chords: D-7 and E♭-7.
jazz: by introducing flat thirds and sevenths (now called blue notes) into my song, although its prevailing key was major ...
jazz: Dell Publishing.
jazz: The instruments used by marching bands and dance bands became the instruments of jazz: brass, drums, and reeds tuned in the European 12-tone scale.
jazz: Robert Palmer said of percussive slave music:
jazz: In addition to dance bands, there were marching bands which played at lavish funerals (later called jazz funerals).
jazz: And that is the way it has been ever since, only more so.
jazz: For others, jazz is a reminder of "an oppressive and racist society and restrictions on their artistic visions".
jazz: In the mid-1800s the white New Orleans composer Louis Moreau Gottschalk adapted slave rhythms and melodies from Cuba and other Caribbean islands into piano salon music.
jazz: ISBN 978-0-6704-9511-5.
jazz: On the other hand, traditional jazz enthusiasts have dismissed bebop, free jazz, and jazz fusion as forms of debasement and betrayal.
jazz: In November 1961, Coltrane played a gig at the Village Vanguard, which resulted in the classic Chasin' the 'Trane, which DownBeat magazine panned as "anti-jazz".
jazz: With the rise of bebop and the end of the swing era after the war, jazz lost its cachet as pop music.
jazz: Relatively little has been written about sacred and liturgical jazz.
jazz: "The quest to make jazz more relevant to popular audiences, while retaining its artistic integrity, is a constant and prevalent theme in the history of postwar jazz." During its swing period, jazz had been an uncomplicated musical scene; according to Paul Trynka, this changed in the post-war years:
jazz: Additionally, the era saw the release of recordings and videos from the previous century, such as a Just Jazz tape broadcast by a band led by Gene Ammons and studio archives such as Just Coolin' by Art Blakey and the Jazz Messengers.
jazz: Cool jazz developed near the end of the 1940s, introducing calmer, smoother sounds and long, linear melodic lines.
jazz: Jackson, Mississippi: University Press of Mississippi.
jazz: In the mid-1930s, Benny Goodman hired pianist Teddy Wilson, vibraphonist Lionel Hampton and guitarist Charlie Christian to join small groups.
jazz: Ellington: The Early Years (reprint ed.).
jazz: Rap duo Pete Rock & CL Smooth incorporated jazz influences on their 1992 debut Mecca and the Soul Brother.
jazz: Habaneras were widely available as sheet music and were the first written music which was rhythmically based on an African motif (1803).
jazz: However, it was only after World War II that a few jazz musicians began to compose and perform extended works intended for religious settings or as religious expression.
jazz: According to Clive James, bebop was "the post-war musical development which tried to ensure that jazz would no longer be the spontaneous sound of joy ...
jazz: Kubik, Gerhard (March 22, 2005).
jazz: Throughout the piece, the four beats, whether sounded or not, are maintained as the temporal referent.
jazz: Spy album in 1986, a collection of Ornette Coleman tunes done in the contemporary thrashcore style.
jazz: This movement included musicians such as Valery Ponomarev and Bobby Watson, Dennis Irwin and James Williams.
jazz: , and I carried this device into my melody as well.
jazz: The concert was described by Bruce Eder as "the single most important jazz or popular music concert in history".
jazz: Composed of two side-long suites edited heavily by producer Teo Macero, this quiet, static album would be equally influential to the development of ambient music.
jazz: It developed out of many forms of music, including blues, ragtime, European harmony, African rhythmic rituals, spirituals, hymns, marches, vaudeville song, and dance music.
jazz: From now on it was no good saying that you liked jazz, you had to specify what kind of jazz.
jazz: According to Mario Dunkel, Whiteman's success was based on a "rhetoric of domestication" according to which he had elevated and rendered valuable (read "white") a previously inchoate (read "black") kind of music.
jazz: Brazilian percussionists such as Airto Moreira and Naná Vasconcelos also influenced jazz internationally by introducing Afro-Brazilian folkloric instruments and rhythms into a wide variety of jazz styles, thus attracting a greater audience to them.
jazz: Some of the most distinctive improvisers, composers, and bandleaders in jazz have been women.
jazz: Handy's music career began in the pre-jazz era and contributed to the codification of jazz through the publication of some of the first jazz sheet music.
jazz: until around 1967, the worlds of jazz and rock were nearly completely separate.
jazz: Whether in the cotton field of the Delta or on the Levee up St.
jazz: As Davis recalls:
jazz: Acid jazz often contains various types of electronic composition (sometimes including sampling or live DJ cutting and scratching), but it is just as likely to be played live by musicians, who often showcase jazz interpretation as part of their performance.
jazz: The figure was later used by Scott Joplin and other ragtime composers.
jazz: Jazz fusion was also popular in Japan, where the band Casiopea released more than thirty fusion albums.
jazz: He was known as "the father of white jazz" because of the many top players he employed, such as George Brunies, Sharkey Bonano, and future members of the Original Dixieland Jass Band.
jazz: By the mid-1970s, the sound known as jazz-funk had developed, characterized by a strong back beat (groove), electrified sounds and, often, the presence of electronic analog synthesizers.
jazz: Deep Blues.
jazz: Over time, social strictures regarding racial segregation began to relax in America: white bandleaders began to recruit black musicians and black bandleaders white ones.
jazz: ISBN 3-1000-3802-9.
jazz: Peñalosa, David (2010).
jazz: The most influential bebop musicians included saxophonist Charlie Parker, pianists Bud Powell and Thelonious Monk, trumpeters Dizzy Gillespie and Clifford Brown, and drummer Max Roach.
jazz: ISBN 0-3068-0182-5.
jazz: The ultimate significance of all this is that the experiments in jazz during the 1940s brought back to African-American music several structural principles and techniques rooted in African traditions.
jazz: West has countered the often negative perceptions of smooth jazz, stating:
jazz: New York: Alfred A.
jazz: The band reached a creative peak in the early 1940s, when Ellington and a small hand-picked group of his composers and arrangers wrote for an orchestra of distinctive voices who displayed tremendous creativity.
jazz: ISBN 978-0-9550-9086-8
Davis, Miles (2005).
jazz: Key figures in developing the "big" jazz band included bandleaders and arrangers Count Basie, Cab Calloway, Jimmy and Tommy Dorsey, Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, Fletcher Henderson, Earl Hines, Harry James, Jimmie Lunceford, Glenn Miller and Artie Shaw.
jazz: Belgian guitarist Django Reinhardt popularized gypsy jazz, a mix of 1930s American swing, French dance hall "musette", and Eastern European folk with a languid, seductive feel; the main instruments were steel stringed guitar, violin, and double bass.
jazz: The habanera was the first of many Cuban music genres which enjoyed periods of popularity in the United States and reinforced and inspired the use of tresillo-based rhythms in African-American music.
jazz: Pianist Keith Jarrett—whose bands of the 1970s had played only original compositions with prominent free jazz elements—established his so-called 'Standards Trio' in 1983, which, although also occasionally exploring collective improvisation, has primarily performed and recorded jazz standards.
jazz: "Afro Blue" was the first jazz standard built upon a typical African three-against-two (3:2) cross-rhythm, or hemiola.
jazz: The groups which made up the Native Tongues Posse tended toward jazzy releases: these include the Jungle Brothers' debut Straight Out the Jungle (1988), and A Tribe Called Quest's People's Instinctive Travels and the Paths of Rhythm (1990) and The Low End Theory (1991).
jazz: That was dirty, and if you knew what it was, you wouldn't say it in front of ladies." The American Dialect Society named it the Word of the 20th Century.
jazz: That year, numerous other bands made recordings featuring "jazz" in the title or band name, but most were ragtime or novelty records rather than jazz.
jazz: Armstrong was a master of his hometown style, but by the time he joined Henderson's band, he was already a trailblazer in a new phase of jazz, with its emphasis on arrangements and soloists.
jazz: One was composed in 1968 to honor the recently assassinated Martin Luther King Jr.
jazz: Bebop made use of several relatively common chord progressions, such as blues (at base, I–IV–V, but often infused with ii–V motion) and "rhythm changes" (I-vi-ii-V) – the chords to the 1930s pop standard "I Got Rhythm".
jazz: The minor pentatonic scale is often used in blues improvisation, and like a blues scale, a minor pentatonic scale can be played over all of the chords in a blues.
jazz: A three-stroke pattern known in Cuban music as tresillo is a fundamental rhythmic figure heard in many different slave musics of the Caribbean, as well as the Afro-Caribbean folk dances performed in New Orleans Congo Square and Gottschalk's compositions (for example "Souvenirs From Havana" (1859)).
jazz: An early 1940s style known as "jumping the blues" or jump blues used small combos, uptempo music and blues chord progressions, drawing on boogie-woogie from the 1930s.
jazz: Most of these players were originally Midwesterners, although there were a small number of New Orleans musicians involved.
jazz: In 1924, Whiteman commissioned George Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue, which was premiered by his orchestra.
jazz: Solos pass from one player to another as guitar and bass form the rhythm section.
jazz: Versace maintained that the religious intent separates sacred from secular jazz.
jazz: However, jazz did not begin as a single musical tradition in New Orleans or elsewhere.
jazz: In New Orleans, slaves could practice elements of their culture such as voodoo and playing drums.
jazz: When we recorded In a Silent Way I just threw out all the chord sheets and told everyone to play off of that.
jazz: As late as 1861, a traveler in North Carolina saw dancers dressed in costumes that included horned headdresses and cow tails and heard music provided by a sheepskin-covered "gumbo box", apparently a frame drum; triangles and jawbones furnished the auxiliary percussion.
jazz: Thereafter jazz became an important element in many leading dance orchestras, and jazz instrumentalists became numerous.
jazz: Miles Davis introduced the concept to the greater jazz world with Kind of Blue (1959), an exploration of the possibilities of modal jazz which would become the best selling jazz album of all time.
jazz: I challenge the prevalent marginalization and malignment of smooth jazz in the standard jazz narrative.
jazz: Free jazz was played in Europe in part because musicians such as Ayler, Taylor, Steve Lacy, and Eric Dolphy spent extended periods of time there, and European musicians such as Michael Mantler and John Tchicai traveled to the U.S.
jazz: New Orleans jazz began in the early 1910s, combining earlier brass band marches, French quadrilles, biguine, ragtime and blues with collective polyphonic improvisation.
jazz: The music evolved from what went before.
jazz: Many bands included both Black and white musicians.
jazz: This era of creativity and vitality is best represented by the Gonzalez brothers Jerry (congas and trumpet) and Andy (bass).
jazz: Most prominent in initiating the sacred jazz movement were pianist and composer Mary Lou Williams, known for her jazz masses in the 1950s and Duke Ellington.
jazz: According to Schuller, by comparison, the solos by Armstrong's bandmates (including a young Coleman Hawkins), sounded "stiff, stodgy", with "jerky rhythms and a grey undistinguished tone quality".
jazz: I couldn't play it...I was working over 'Cherokee,' and, as I did, I found that by using the higher intervals of a chord as a melody line and backing them with appropriately related changes, I could play the thing I'd been hearing.
jazz: it is not music at all.
jazz: The emphasis is thus shifted from harmony to melody: "Historically, this caused a seismic shift among jazz musicians, away from thinking vertically (the chord), and towards a more horizontal approach (the scale)", explained pianist Mark Levine.
jazz: In the swing era of the 1920s–1940s, big bands relied more on arrangements which were written or learned by ear and memorized.
jazz: In turn, European American minstrel show performers in blackface popularized the music internationally, combining syncopation with European harmonic accompaniment.
jazz: African-based rhythmic patterns were retained in the United States in large part through "body rhythms" such as stomping, clapping, and patting juba dancing.
jazz: Bebop musicians employed several harmonic devices which were not previously typical in jazz, engaging in a more abstracted form of chord-based improvisation.
jazz: Vocalists of the famous big bands moved on to being marketed and performing as solo pop singers; these included Frank Sinatra, Peggy Lee, Dick Haymes, and Doris Day.
jazz: In the 1930s, arranged dance-oriented swing big bands, Kansas City jazz (a hard-swinging, bluesy, improvisational style), and gypsy jazz (a style that emphasized musette waltzes) were the prominent styles.
jazz: George Bornstein wrote that African Americans were sympathetic to the plight of the Jewish American and vice versa.
jazz: The harmonic progression can begin on either side of clave, and the harmonic "one" is always understood to be "one".
jazz: Although jazz-rock fusion reached the height of its popularity in the 1970s, the use of electronic instruments and rock-derived musical elements in jazz continued in the 1990s and 2000s.
jazz: Around 1912, when the four-string banjo and saxophone came in, musicians began to improvise the melody line, but the harmony and rhythm remained unchanged.
jazz: The following example shows a short excerpt of the straight melody of "Mandy, Make Up Your Mind" by George W.
jazz: Many early jazz musicians played in the bars and brothels of the red-light district around Basin Street called Storyville.
jazz: LinkedJazz
Jazz at the Smithsonian Museum Archived March 5, 2015, at the Wayback Machine
Alabama Jazz Hall of Fame website
RedHotJazz.com
Jazz at Lincoln Center
American Jazz Museum website
jazz: This led to a highly syncopated music with a linear rhythmic complexity.
jazz: Das Jazzbuch (7th ed.).
jazz: Morton's solos, however, were still close to ragtime, and were not merely improvisations over chord changes as in later jazz, but his use of the blues was of equal importance.
jazz: Collier, James Lincoln (1978).
jazz: Musicians such as David Murray or Don Pullen may have felt the call of free-form jazz, but they never forgot all the other ways one could play African-American music for fun and profit.
jazz: In this folk blues form, the singer would improvise freely within a limited melodic range, sounding like a field holler, and the guitar accompaniment was slapped rather than strummed, like a small drum which responded in syncopated accents, functioning as another "voice".
jazz: Many jazz standards such as "Manteca", "On Green Dolphin Street" and "Song for My Father" have a "Latin" A section and a swung B section.
jazz: One aspect of swing, which is heard in more rhythmically complex Diaspora musics, places strokes in-between the triple and duple-pulse "grids".
jazz: It was the same basic music.
jazz: The Bad Plus have also incorporated elements of free jazz into their music.
jazz: (1995) [1991].
jazz: This composition, as well as his later "St.
jazz: Some of his earliest lessons were at the home of pianist Ellis Marsalis.
jazz: Pianist Brad Mehldau and The Bad Plus have explored contemporary rock music within the context of the traditional jazz acoustic piano trio, recording instrumental jazz versions of songs by rock musicians.
jazz: In 2015, Kendrick Lamar released his third studio album, To Pimp a Butterfly.
jazz: because they could be adapted more readily to European rhythmic conceptions," jazz historian Gunther Schuller observed.
jazz: During the early 1900s, jazz was mostly performed in African-American and mulatto communities due to segregation laws.
jazz: Anthony Braxton began recording standards over familiar chord changes.
jazz: Beginning in the 1950s, many women jazz instrumentalists were prominent, some sustaining long careers.
jazz: Nu jazz is influenced by jazz harmony and melodies, and there are usually no improvisational aspects.
jazz: Jazz-funk also draws influences from traditional African music, Afro-Cuban rhythms and Jamaican reggae, notably Kingston bandleader Sonny Bradshaw.
jazz: The innovations of Palmieri, the Gonzalez brothers and others led to an Afro-Cuban jazz renaissance in New York City.
jazz: Bossa is generally moderately paced, with melodies sung in Portuguese or English, whilst the related jazz-samba is an adaptation of street samba into jazz.
jazz: Harry Connick Jr.
jazz: In the excerpt, the left hand plays the tresillo rhythm, while the right hand plays variations on cinquillo.
jazz: The Jazz theory book.
jazz: Its structure was the basis for many other rags, and the syncopations in the right hand, especially in the transition between the first and second strain, were novel at the time.
jazz: He incorporated parallel fourths, with McCoy Tyner-type vamps.
jazz: Individual performers often play in a variety of styles, sometimes in the same performance.
jazz: Miles Davis's 1954 performance of "Walkin'" at the first Newport Jazz Festival introduced the style to the jazz world.
jazz: Lavish festivals with African-based dances to drums were organized on Sundays at Place Congo, or Congo Square, in New Orleans until 1843.
jazz: The late 1950s to early 1960s saw hard boppers form their own bands as a new generation of blues- and bebop-influenced musicians entered the jazz world, from pianists Wynton Kelly and Tommy Flanagan to saxophonists Joe Henderson and Hank Mobley.
jazz: Modal jazz developed in the late 1950s, using the mode, or musical scale, as the basis of musical structure and improvisation, as did free jazz, which explored playing without regular meter, beat and formal structures.
jazz: but the band never made recordings."
Dizzy Gillespie wrote: "People talk about the Hines band being 'the incubator of bop' and the leading exponents of that music ended up in the Hines band.
jazz: The music of New Orleans, Louisiana, had a profound effect on the creation of early jazz.
jazz: Many of the big bands who were deprived of experienced musicians because of the war effort began to enlist young players who were below the age for conscription, as was the case with saxophonist Stan Getz's entry in a band as a teenager.
jazz: Bebop then revived tonal-harmonic ideas transmitted through the blues and reconstructed and expanded others in a basically non-Western harmonic approach.
jazz: Classical music performance is evaluated more by its fidelity to the musical score, with less attention given to interpretation, ornamentation, and accompaniment.
jazz: The first major stirrings came in the 1950s with the early work of Ornette Coleman (whose 1960 album Free Jazz: A Collective Improvisation coined the term) and Cecil Taylor.
jazz: Jazz is a music genre that originated in the African-American communities of New Orleans, Louisiana, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
jazz: New Orleans brass bands are a lasting influence, contributing horn players to the world of professional jazz with the distinct sound of the city whilst helping black children escape poverty.
jazz: An ancient west central Sudanic stratum of pentatonic song composition, often associated with simple work rhythms in a regular meter, but with notable off-beat accents.
jazz: There wouldn't have been a bridge.
jazz: If the progression begins on the "three-side" of clave, it is said to be in 3–2 clave (shown below).
jazz: In many forms of jazz, a soloist is supported by a rhythm section of one or more chordal instruments (piano, guitar), double bass, and drums.
jazz: Although the pattern is only half a clave, Marsalis makes the point that the single-celled figure is the guide-pattern of New Orleans music.
jazz: Some researchers believe Eddie Lang and Joe Venuti pioneered the guitar-violin partnership characteristic of the genre, which was brought to France after they had been heard live or on Okeh Records in the late 1920s.
jazz: In contrast to Davis's earlier work with hard bop and its complex chord progression and improvisation, Kind of Blue was composed as a series of modal sketches in which the musicians were given scales that defined the parameters of their improvisation and style.
jazz: "Bebop: A Case in Point.
jazz: After recording with the quartet over the next few months, Coltrane invited Pharoah Sanders to join the band in September 1965.
jazz: However, as Gerhard Kubik points out, whereas the spirituals are homophonic, rural blues and early jazz "was largely based on concepts of heterophony".
jazz: Frankfurt am Main: S.
jazz: The mid-2010s saw an increased influence of R&B, hip-hop, and pop music on jazz.
jazz: According to jazz writer Stuart Nicholson, "just as free jazz appeared on the verge of creating a whole new musical language in the 1960s ...
jazz: Claude Debussy did have some influence on jazz, for example, on Bix Beiderbecke's piano playing.
jazz: Ellington called his music American Music, rather than jazz, and liked to describe those who impressed him as "beyond category".
jazz: In the opinion of jazz historian Ernest Borneman, what preceded New Orleans jazz before 1890 was "Afro-Latin music", similar to what was played in the Caribbean at the time.
jazz: DownBeat described the album as "music beyond category", and awarded it Album of the Year in the magazine's polls that year.
jazz: In contrast, jazz is often characterized by the product of interaction and collaboration, placing less value on the contribution of the composer, if there is one, and more on the performer.
jazz: Drumming shifted to a more elusive and explosive style, in which the ride cymbal was used to keep time while the snare and bass drum were used for accents.
jazz: A firm avant-garde or free jazz stance has been maintained by some players, such as saxophonists Greg Osby and Charles Gayle, while others, such as James Carter, have incorporated free jazz elements into a more traditional framework.
jazz: In Gottschalk's symphonic work "A Night in the Tropics" (1859), the tresillo variant cinquillo appears extensively.
jazz: While loosely inspired by bebop, free jazz tunes gave players much more latitude; the loose harmony and tempo was deemed controversial when this approach was first developed.
jazz: Davis's ex-bandmate Herbie Hancock also absorbed hip-hop influences in the mid-1990s, releasing the album Dis Is da Drum in 1994.
jazz: can be thought of as a combination of tresillo and the backbeat.
jazz: Morton considered the tresillo/habanera, which he called the Spanish tinge, an essential ingredient of jazz.
jazz: The cross noteheads indicate the main beats (not bass notes).
jazz: Early Jazz: Its Roots and Musical Development.
jazz: and the third was commissioned by a pontifical commission.
jazz: Black Music Research Journal.
jazz: Zeitschrift für Musikwissenschaft (6): 159–175.
jazz: Morton was a crucial innovator in the evolution from the early jazz form known as ragtime to jazz piano, and could perform pieces in either style; in 1938, Morton made a series of recordings for the Library of Congress in which he demonstrated the difference between the two styles.
jazz: Jazz arrangements with a Latin A section and a swung B section, with all choruses swung during solos, became common practice with many Latin tunes of the jazz standard repertoire.
jazz: The integration of funk, soul, and R&B music into jazz resulted in the creation of a genre whose spectrum is wide and ranges from strong jazz improvisation to soul, funk or disco with jazz arrangements, jazz riffs and jazz solos, and sometimes soul vocals.
jazz: Dance, Stanley (1983).
jazz: Palmer, Robert (1981).
jazz: M-Base changed from a movement of a loose collective of young musicians to a kind of informal Coleman "school", with a much advanced but already originally implied concept.
jazz: Coltrane, Johnny Griffin, Mobley, and Morgan all participated on the album A Blowin' Session (1957), considered by Al Campbell to have been one of the high points of the hard bop era.
jazz: Armstrong's solos were a significant factor in making jazz a true 20th-century language.
jazz: "The new direction of postwar jazz drew a wealth of critical acclaim, but it steadily declined in popularity as it developed a reputation as an academic genre that was largely inaccessible to mainstream audiences", Burchett said.
jazz: In 2001, Ken Burns's documentary Jazz premiered on PBS, featuring Wynton Marsalis and other experts reviewing the entire history of American jazz to that time.
jazz: In his Newsweek article "The Problem With Jazz Criticism", Stanley Crouch considers Miles Davis's playing of fusion to be a turning point that led to smooth jazz.
jazz: ISBN 978-0-2520-6509-5.
jazz: Duke Ellington, one of jazz's most famous figures, said, "It's all music."
jazz: I wanted to make it more like rock.
jazz: In 1919, Kid Ory's Original Creole Jazz Band of musicians from New Orleans began playing in San Francisco and Los Angeles, where in 1922 they became the first black jazz band of New Orleans origin to make recordings.
jazz: Gillespie and Pozo's brief collaboration produced some of the most enduring Afro-Cuban jazz standards.
jazz: A jazz ensemble was joined by soloists and choir using the English text of the Roman Catholic Mass.
jazz: The publication of his "Memphis Blues" sheet music in 1912 introduced the 12-bar blues to the world (although Gunther Schuller argues that it is not really a blues, but "more like a cakewalk").
jazz: Despite its Southern black origins, there was a larger market for jazzy dance music played by white orchestras.
jazz: The 1930s belonged to popular swing big bands, in which some virtuoso soloists became as famous as the band leaders.
jazz: Hard bop is an extension of bebop (or "bop") music that incorporates influences from blues, rhythm and blues, and gospel, especially in saxophone and piano playing.
jazz: The album heavily featured prominent contemporary jazz artists such as Thundercat and redefined jazz rap with a larger focus on improvisation and live soloing rather than simply sampling.
jazz: Swing is the most important and enduring African-based rhythmic technique used in jazz.
jazz: Bebop emerged in the 1940s, shifting jazz from danceable popular music toward a more challenging "musician's music" which was played at faster tempos and used more chord-based improvisation.
jazz: I tried to convey this effect ...
jazz: government in 1917.
jazz: Depending on the performer's mood, experience, and interaction with band members or audience members, the performer may change melodies, harmonies, and time signatures.
jazz: The young Jazz Messengers' contemporaries, including Roy Hargrove, Marcus Roberts, Wallace Roney and Mark Whitfield were also influenced by Wynton Marsalis's emphasis toward jazz tradition.
jazz: Papa Jack Laine, who ran the Reliance band in New Orleans in the 1910s, was called "the father of white jazz".
jazz: "I didn't write out the music for Kind of Blue, but brought in sketches for what everybody was supposed to play because I wanted a lot of spontaneity," recalled Davis.
jazz: began his career playing stride piano and the Dixieland jazz of his home, New Orleans, beginning with his first recording when he was 10 years old.
jazz: Handy and his band members were formally trained African-American musicians who had not grown up with the blues, yet he was able to adapt the blues to a larger band instrument format and arrange them in a popular music form.
jazz: No recordings by him exist.
jazz: Armstrong's solos went well beyond the theme-improvisation concept and extemporized on chords, rather than melodies.
jazz: This was a drumming tradition that was distinct from its Caribbean counterparts, expressing a uniquely African-American sensibility.
jazz: As jazz spread, it developed to encompass many different cultures, and the work of Jewish composers in Tin Pan Alley helped shape the many different sounds that jazz came to incorporate.
jazz: This is a very common progression, used in pieces such as Miles Davis's "Tune Up".
jazz: Chicago was developing "Hot Jazz", and King Oliver joined Bill Johnson.
jazz: The use of clave brought the African timeline, or key pattern, into jazz.
jazz: It was not.
jazz: On the contrary, ideologically, bebop was a strong statement of rejection of any kind of eclecticism, propelled by a desire to activate something deeply buried in self.
jazz: The following example shows the V pentatonic scale over a II–V–I progression.
jazz: "I'd been getting bored with the stereotyped changes that were being used...and I kept thinking there's bound to be something else.
jazz: Acid jazz developed in the UK in the 1980s and 1990s, influenced by jazz-funk and electronic dance music.
jazz: Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Pearson/Prentice Hall.
jazz: However the Catholic Church has not embraced jazz as appropriate for worship.
jazz: The harmonic complexity of "Giant Steps" is on the level of the most advanced 20th-century art music.
jazz: Handy: early published blues ====
jazz: He entertained audiences with a light elegant musical style which remained popular with audiences for nearly three decades from the 1930s until the late 1950s.
jazz: In addition, the quartet responded to the leader by playing with increasing freedom.
jazz: (1969) by The Tony Williams Lifetime.
jazz: It wasn't called that.
jazz: The slaves came largely from West Africa and the greater Congo River basin and brought strong musical traditions with them.
jazz: Jazz began to get a reputation as immoral, and many members of the older generations saw it as a threat to the old cultural values by promoting the decadent values of the Roaring 20s.
jazz: Jazz involves "a spontaneity and vitality of musical production in which improvisation plays a role" and contains a "sonority and manner of phrasing which mirror the individuality of the performing jazz musician".
jazz: This coincided with a nationwide resurgence in the Dixieland style of pre-swing jazz; performers such as clarinetist George Lewis, cornetist Bill Davison, and trombonist Turk Murphy were hailed by conservative jazz critics as more authentic than the big bands.
jazz: As only a limited number of American jazz records were released in Europe, European jazz traces many of its roots to American artists such as James Reese Europe, Paul Whiteman, and Lonnie Johnson, who visited Europe during and after World War I.
jazz: He noted that the traditions of black gospel music and jazz were combined in the 1950s to produce a new genre, "sacred jazz".
jazz: White jazz musicians appeared in the Midwest and in other areas throughout the U.S.
jazz: Also in 1897, the white composer William Krell published his "Mississippi Rag" as the first written piano instrumental ragtime piece, and Tom Turpin published his "Harlem Rag", the first rag published by an African-American.
jazz: Accordingly, John Coltrane's "Giant Steps" (1960), with its 26 chords per 16 bars, can be played using only three pentatonic scales.
jazz: Oxford University Press.
jazz: Jewish Americans were able to thrive in Jazz because of the probationary whiteness that they were allotted at the time.
jazz: Originally a B♭ pentatonic blues, Coltrane expanded the harmonic structure of "Afro Blue".
jazz: These developments are the origins of jazzcore, the fusion of free jazz with hardcore punk.
jazz: Musicians from Havana and New Orleans would take the twice-daily ferry between both cities to perform, and the habanera quickly took root in the musically fertile Crescent City.
jazz: Storyville was shut down by the U.S.
jazz: In the early 1940s, bebop-style performers began to shift jazz from danceable popular music toward a more challenging "musician's music".
jazz: The following example shows the 128 and 44 forms of the bass line.
jazz: The African traditions primarily use a single-line melody and call-and-response pattern, and the rhythms have a counter-metric structure and reflect African speech patterns.
jazz: Nice Guy (1989) and their 1990 track "Jazz Thing" sampled Charlie Parker and Ramsey Lewis.
jazz: When John Coltrane covered "Afro Blue" in 1963, he inverted the metric hierarchy, interpreting the tune as a 34 jazz waltz with duple cross-beats superimposed (2:3).
jazz: In London, the Pop Group began to mix free jazz and dub reggae into their brand of punk rock.
jazz: The first jazz standard composed by a non-Latino to use an overt African 128 cross-rhythm was Wayne Shorter's "Footprints" (1967).
jazz: The Black Codes outlawed drumming by slaves, which meant that African drumming traditions were not preserved in North America, unlike in Cuba, Haiti, and elsewhere in the Caribbean.
jazz: After leaving Henderson's group, Armstrong formed his Hot Five band, where he popularized scat singing.
jazz: Its hip-hop inspired beats and R&B vocal interludes was not only acclaimed by critics for being innovative in keeping jazz relevant, but also sparked a small resurgence in jazz on the internet.
jazz: In June 1965, Coltrane and 10 other musicians recorded Ascension, a 40-minute-long piece without breaks that included adventurous solos by young avant-garde musicians as well as Coltrane, and was controversial primarily for the collective improvisation sections that separated the solos.
jazz: Late bop also moved towards extended forms that represented a departure from pop and show tunes.
jazz: "Now in one of my earliest tunes, 'New Orleans Blues,' you can notice the Spanish tinge.
jazz: The use of pentatonic scales in Africa probably goes back thousands of years.
jazz: In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the hybrid form of jazz-rock fusion was developed by combining jazz improvisation with rock rhythms, electric instruments and the highly amplified stage sound of rock musicians such as Jimi Hendrix and Frank Zappa.
jazz: He signed a contract with Victor and became the top bandleader of the 1920s, giving hot jazz a white component, hiring white musicians such as Bix Beiderbecke, Jimmy Dorsey, Tommy Dorsey, Frankie Trumbauer, and Joe Venuti.
jazz: For example, several musicians who had been prominent in the fusion genre during the 1970s began to record acoustic jazz once more, including Chick Corea and Herbie Hancock.
jazz: Hard bop was developed in the mid-1950s, coalescing in 1953 and 1954; it developed partly in response to the vogue for cool jazz in the early 1950s and paralleled the rise of rhythm and blues.
jazz: Also: Jazz (2001 miniseries).
jazz: Prehistory of Jazz.
jazz: Ginell of AllMusic considers Roy Ayers "one of the prophets of acid jazz".
jazz: Classically trained pianist Scott Joplin produced his "Original Rags" in 1898 and, in 1899, had an international hit with "Maple Leaf Rag", a multi-strain ragtime march with four parts that feature recurring themes and a bass line with copious seventh chords.
jazz: The original New Orleans style was polyphonic, with theme variation and simultaneous collective improvisation.
jazz: While there is a discernible rock and funk influence in the timbres of the instruments employed, other tonal and rhythmic textures, such as the Indian tambora and tablas and Cuban congas and bongos, create a multi-layered soundscape.
jazz: [However, ...] as rock became more creative and its musicianship improved, and as some in the jazz world became bored with hard bop and did not want to play strictly avant-garde music, the two different idioms began to trade ideas and occasionally combine forces.
