kubernetes: It takes care of starting, stopping, and maintaining application containers organized into pods as directed by the control plane.
kubernetes: Kubernetes provides no native storage for log data, but one can integrate many existing logging solutions into the Kubernetes cluster.
kubernetes: There are many add-ons.
kubernetes: The software consists of a control plane and nodes on which the actual applications run.
kubernetes: In this case, the notion of instance uniqueness is important.
kubernetes: Kubernetes provides two closely related mechanisms to deal with this need, known as ConfigMaps and Secrets, both of which allow for configuration changes to be made without requiring an application rebuild.
kubernetes: Kubernetes provides two modes of service discovery, using environment variables or using Kubernetes DNS.
kubernetes: Similarly, machines that make up the cluster are also treated as a Kubernetes resource.
kubernetes: While the ReplicaSet controller manages the scale of the ReplicaSet, the Deployment controller manages what happens to the ReplicaSet – whether an update has to be rolled out, or rolled back, etc.
kubernetes: The controller also handles creating replacement pods if the underlying node fails.
kubernetes: The controller manager is a single process that manages several core Kubernetes controllers (including the examples described above), is distributed as part of the standard Kubernetes installation and responding to the loss of nodes.
kubernetes: Kubernetes assembles one or more computers, either virtual machines or bare metal, into a cluster which can run workloads in containers.
kubernetes: The biggest difference between a Secret and a ConfigMap is that Secrets are specifically designed for containing secure and confidential data, although they are not encrypted at rest by default, and requires additional setup in order to fully secure the use of Secrets within the cluster.
kubernetes: In older versions of Kubernetes, the API server supported listening on both HTTP and HTTPS ports (with the HTTP port number having no transport security whatsoever).
kubernetes: This is called the Cluster API.
kubernetes: It works with various container runtimes, such as containerd and CRI-O.
kubernetes: The platform exerts its control over compute and storage resources by defining resources as objects, which can then be managed as such.
kubernetes: A Kubernetes volume provides persistent storage that exists for the lifetime of the pod itself.
kubernetes: The provided file system makes containers extremely portable and easy to use in development.
kubernetes: Starting with version 1.19, Kubernetes follows an N-3 support policy.
kubernetes: When Deployments are scaled up or down, this results in the declaration of the ReplicaSet changing, and this change in the declared state is managed by the ReplicaSet controller.
kubernetes: Once the control plane detects a node failure, a higher-level controller is expected to observe this state change and launch pods on another healthy node.
kubernetes: Databases are an example of stateful workloads.
kubernetes: The combination of custom resources and custom controllers are often referred to as a Kubernetes Operator.
kubernetes: The ReplicaSet can also be said to be a grouping mechanism that lets Kubernetes maintain the number of instances that have been declared for a given pod.
kubernetes: Common attributes of Container Attached Storage include the use of extensions to Kubernetes, such as custom resource definitions, and the use of Kubernetes itself for functions that otherwise would be separately developed and deployed for storage or data management.
kubernetes: Other applications like Apache Kafka distribute the data amongst their brokers; hence, one broker is not the same as another.
kubernetes: This allows cluster administrators to extend or modify the behavior of the default Kubernetes scheduler according to their needs.
kubernetes: This was deprecated in v1.10 and eventually dropped support in v1.20 of Kubernetes.
kubernetes: In addition to the landscape, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF), has published other information about Kubernetes Persistent Storage including a blog helping to define the container attached storage pattern.
kubernetes: They are intended for use in environments with many users spread across multiple teams, or projects, or even separating environments like development, test, and production.
kubernetes: Container Attached Storage is a type of data storage that emerged as Kubernetes gained prominence.
kubernetes: VMware (proponent of Pivotal Cloud Foundry) in August,
Mesosphere, Inc.
kubernetes: A container can be moved from development to test or production with no or relatively few configuration changes.
kubernetes: These controllers may interact with custom resources to allow for a declarative API: users may declare the desired state of the system via the custom resources, and it is the responsibility of the custom controller to observe the change and reconcile it.
kubernetes: Kubernetes defines a set of building blocks ("primitives") that collectively provide mechanisms that deploy, maintain, and scale applications based on CPU, memory or custom metrics.
kubernetes: The data from a ConfigMap or Secret is accessible to the pod through one of the following ways:
kubernetes: The various components of the Kubernetes control plane are as follows.
kubernetes: All objects in Kubernetes are subject to the same API conventions.
kubernetes: Until version 1.18, Kubernetes followed an N-2 support policy, meaning that the three most recent minor versions receive security updates and bug fixes.
kubernetes: The ReplicationController workload was the predecessor of a ReplicaSet, but was eventually deprecated in favor of ReplicaSet to make use of set-based label selectors.
kubernetes: For this purpose, the scheduler must know the resource requirements, resource availability, and other user-provided constraints or policy directives such as quality-of-service, affinity/anti-affinity requirements, and data locality.
kubernetes: (proponent of Marathon and Mesos) in September,
Docker, Inc.
kubernetes: Containers started by Kubernetes automatically include this DNS server in their DNS searches.
kubernetes: kubectl: Command-line for interacting with the Kubernetes control plane
Official client libraries maintained by Kubernetes for C, .NET, Go, Haskell, Java, JavaScript, Perl, Python and Ruby
kubernetes: Kubernetes (), also known as K8s, is an open-source container orchestration system for automating software deployment, scaling, and management.
kubernetes: A ReplicationController, similar to a ReplicaSet, serves the same purpose and behaves similarly to a ReplicaSet, which is to ensure that there will always be a specified number of pod replicas as desired.
kubernetes: The definition of a ReplicaSet uses a selector, whose evaluation will result in identifying all pods that are associated with it.
kubernetes: While scaling stateless applications is only a matter of adding more running pods, doing so for stateful workloads is harder, because the state needs to be preserved if a pod is restarted.
kubernetes: There are multiple distributions of this platform—from independent software vendors (ISVs) as well as hosted-on-cloud offerings from all the major public cloud vendors.
kubernetes: tier=backend AND release_track=canary
Just like labels, field selectors also let one select Kubernetes resources.
kubernetes: The scheduler tracks resource allocation on each node to ensure that workload is not scheduled in excess of available resources.
kubernetes: Service discovery assigns a stable IP address and DNS name to the service, and load balances traffic in a round-robin manner to network connections of that IP address among the pods matching the selector (even as failures cause the pods to move from machine to machine).
kubernetes: (proponent of Docker) in October,
Microsoft Azure also in October,
AWS announced support for Kubernetes via the Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) in November.
kubernetes: Configuration data can be anything as fine-grained as individual properties, or coarse-grained information like entire configuration files such as JSON or XML documents.
kubernetes: Others at Google soon joined to help build the project including Ville Aikas, Dawn Chen, Brian Grant, Tim Hockin, and Daniel Smith.
kubernetes: The key use case for operators are to capture the aim of a human operator who is managing a service or set of services and to implement them using automation, and with a declarative API supporting this automation.
kubernetes: This is particularly helpful for use cases where the workload has some dependency on the actual node or host machine, such as log collection, ingress controllers, and storage services.
kubernetes: As such, most Kubernetes objects have the same set of nested fields, as follows:
kubernetes: Labels selectors often form part of the controller's definition that specify the set of pods that a controller manages.
kubernetes: The pods may be managed by Deployments, ReplicationControllers, and so on.
kubernetes: The set of pods that constitute a service are defined by a label selector.
kubernetes: The consistency is crucial for correctly scheduling and operating services.
kubernetes: The API server uses etcd's watch API to monitor the cluster, roll out critical configuration changes, or restore any divergences of the state of the cluster back to the desired state as declared in etcd.
kubernetes: This storage can also be used as shared disk space for containers within the pod.
kubernetes: kubelet monitors the state of a pod, and if not in the desired state, the pod re-deploys to the same node.
kubernetes: As environment variables, which will be consumed by kubelet from the ConfigMap when the container is launched;
Mounted within a volume accessible within the container's filesystem, which supports automatic reloading without restarting the container.
kubernetes: kubelet interacts with container runtimes via the Container Runtime Interface (CRI), which decouples the maintenance of core Kubernetes from the actual CRI implementation.
kubernetes: The API server is backed by etcd to store all records persistently.
kubernetes: The same volume can be mounted at different points in the file system tree by different containers.
kubernetes: Historically Kubernetes was suitable only for stateless services.
kubernetes: On March 6, 2018, Kubernetes Project reached ninth place in the list of GitHub projects by the number of commits, and second place in authors and issues, after the Linux kernel.
kubernetes: A Kubernetes service is a set of pods that work together, such as one tier of a multi-tier application.
kubernetes: Correspondingly, label selectors are queries against labels that resolve to matching objects.
kubernetes: Containers may be ephemeral, but more and more of their data is not, so one needs to ensure the data's survival in case of container termination or hardware failure.
kubernetes: Cost monitoring
Kubernetes cost monitoring applications allow breakdown of costs by pods, nodes, namespaces, and labels.
kubernetes: Resource monitoring
Container Resource Monitoring records metrics about containers in a central database, and provides a UI for browsing that data.
kubernetes: "Kubernetes" is often abbreviated with the numerical contraction "K8s", meaning "the letter K, followed by 8 letters, followed by s".
kubernetes: Once the pod that depends on the Secret or ConfigMap is deleted, the in-memory copy of all bound Secrets and ConfigMaps are deleted as well.
kubernetes: Previously, storage volume plug-ins were included in the Kubernetes distribution.
kubernetes: By creating a standardized CSI, the code required to interface with external storage systems was separated from the core Kubernetes code base.
kubernetes: as part of a batch job).
kubernetes: The name Kubernetes comes from the Ancient Greek term κυβερνήτης, kubernḗtēs (helmsman, pilot), which is also the origin of the words cybernetics and (through Latin) governor.
kubernetes: Each pod in Kubernetes is assigned a unique IP address within the cluster, allowing applications to use ports without the risk of conflict.
kubernetes: Generally, most workloads scale in response to a desired replica count, depending on the availability and performance requirements as needed by the application.
kubernetes: A container resides inside a pod.
kubernetes: Google admitted this as well.
kubernetes: This means that a restart of the pod will wipe out any data on such containers, and therefore, this form of storage is quite limiting in anything but trivial applications.
kubernetes: The container is the lowest level of a micro-service, which holds the running application, libraries, and their dependencies.
kubernetes: This API is a REST API and is declarative in nature, and is the same API exposed to the control plane.
kubernetes: It includes tools like kubeadm and kubectl which can be used to interact with its REST-based API.
kubernetes: Examples of popular container runtimes that are compatible with kubelet include containerd (initially supported via Docker) and CRI-O.
kubernetes: The API server processes, validates REST requests, and updates the state of the API objects in etcd, thereby allowing clients to configure workloads and containers across worker nodes.
kubernetes: Web UI
This is a general purpose, web-based UI for Kubernetes clusters.
kubernetes: Deployments are a higher-level management mechanism for ReplicaSets.
kubernetes: These custom resources are declared using Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs), which is a kind of resource that can be dynamically registered and unregistered without shutting down or restarting a cluster that is currently running.
kubernetes: This capability to dynamically control how services utilize implementing resources provides a loose coupling within the infrastructure.
kubernetes: Webhook mode: Queries a REST API service to determine if a user is authorized to perform a given action.
kubernetes: Several notable distributions are listed below:
kubernetes: The Kubernetes control plane consists of various components such as TLS encryption, role-based access control (RBAC) and a strong authentication method, network separation, each its own process, that can run both on a single master node or on multiple masters supporting high-availability clusters.
kubernetes: Within the pod, all containers can reference each other.
kubernetes: Some of these include:
kubernetes: Several of these abstractions, supported by a standard installation of Kubernetes, are described below.
kubernetes: Google was already offering a managed Kubernetes service, GKE, and Red Hat was supporting Kubernetes as part of OpenShift since the inception of the Kubernetes project in 2014.
kubernetes: The provider implementation consists of cloud-provider specific functions that let Kubernetes provide the cluster API in a fashion that is well-integrated with the cloud-provider's services and resources.
kubernetes: A Secret and/or a ConfigMap is sent to a node only if a pod on that node requires it, which will only be stored in memory on the node.
kubernetes: As such, scheduler plug-ins may be developed and installed as in-process extensions to the native vanilla scheduler by running it as a separate scheduler, as long as they conform to the Kubernetes scheduling framework.
kubernetes: They need to provide fast and reliable storage for databases, root images and other data used by the containers.
kubernetes: spec: Describes the desired state of the resource, which can be controlled by end users, or other higher-level controllers;
status: Describes the current state of the resource, which is actively updated by the controller of the resource.
kubernetes: Attribute-based access control (ABAC) mode: Grants access rights to users through the use of defined access control policies which combine attributes together.
kubernetes: As such, it is often used to guarantee the availability of a specified number of identical Pods.
kubernetes: The container contains all the packages needed to run a service.
kubernetes: Etcd favors consistency over availability in the event of a network partition (see CAP theorem).
kubernetes: May be managed by another controller, which is defined in the metadata.ownerReferences field:
At most one other object shall be the managing controller of the controllee object, which is defined by the controller field.
kubernetes: In 2017, the principal competitors rallied around Kubernetes and announced adding native support for it:
kubernetes: It reliably stores the configuration data of the cluster, representing the overall state of the cluster at any given point of time.
kubernetes: Custom controllers are another extension mechanism that interact with the Kubernetes API, similar to the default controllers in the standard pre-installed Kubernetes controller manager.
kubernetes: Node authorization mode: Grants a fixed list of operations of API requests that kubelets are allowed to perform, in order to function properly.
kubernetes: Role-based access control (RBAC) mode: Grants access rights to users based on roles that are granted to the user, where each role defines a list of actions that are allowed.
kubernetes: May be garbage collected if the owner is deleted:
When an object is deleted, all dependent objects may also be deleted in a cascading fashion.
kubernetes: metadata.name and metadata.namespace are field selectors that will be present on all Kubernetes objects.
kubernetes: Custom controllers may also be installed in the cluster, further allowing the behavior and API of Kubernetes to be extended when used in conjunction with custom resources (see custom resources, controllers and operators below).
kubernetes: The project was conceived and created by Google employees Joe Beda, Brendan Burns, and Craig McLuckie.
kubernetes: By default a service is exposed inside a cluster (e.g., back end pods might be grouped into a service, with requests from the front-end pods load-balanced among them), but a service can also be exposed outside a cluster (e.g., for clients to reach front-end pods).
kubernetes: The data from ConfigMaps and Secrets will be made available to every single instance of the application to which these objects have been bound via the Deployment.
kubernetes: Unlike Borg, which was written in C++, Kubernetes is written in the Go language.
kubernetes: The scheduler's role is to match resource "supply" to workload "demand".
kubernetes: Volumes are mounted at specific mount points within the container, which are defined by the pod configuration, and cannot mount onto other volumes or link to other volumes.
kubernetes: Its suitability for running and managing workloads of all sizes and styles has led to its widespread adoption in clouds and data centers.
kubernetes: It is responsible for routing traffic to the appropriate container based on IP and port number of the incoming request.
kubernetes: In this case, the notion of ordering of instances is important.
kubernetes: A key concept embodied in the API is using Infrastructure as Software, or the notion that the Kubernetes cluster infrastructure is itself a resource / object that can be managed just like any other Kubernetes resources.
kubernetes: As an example, a human operator may specify that three instances of a particular "pod" (see below) need to be running, and etcd stores this fact.
kubernetes: The components of Kubernetes can be divided into those that manage an individual node and those that are part of the control plane.
kubernetes: If the Deployment controller finds that only two instances are running (conflicting with the etcd declaration), it schedules the creation of an additional instance of that pod.
kubernetes: Cisco Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) in November.
kubernetes: This allows users to declaratively define and manage these high-level abstractions, instead of having to manage individual pods by themselves.
kubernetes: Cluster-level logging
To prevent the loss of event data in the event of node or pod failures, container logs can be saved to a central log store with a search/browsing interface.
kubernetes: Examples of functionality delivered by custom resource definitions or by Kubernetes itself include retry logic, delivered by Kubernetes itself, and the creation and maintenance of an inventory of available storage media and volumes, typically delivered via a custom resource definition.
kubernetes: Originally designed by Google, the project is now maintained by a worldwide community of contributors, and the trademark is held by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation.
kubernetes: The design and development of Kubernetes was inspired by Google's Borg cluster manager and based on Promise Theory.
kubernetes: Kubernetes was announced by Google on June 6, 2014.
kubernetes: The API has two pieces – the core API, and a provider implementation.
kubernetes: However, from November 2020 up to April 2022, Kubernetes has deprecated the shim in favor of directly interfacing with the container through containerd, or replacing Docker with a runtime that is compliant with the Container Runtime Interface (CRI).
kubernetes: Implementing persistent storage for containers is one of the top challenges of Kubernetes administrators, DevOps and cloud engineers.
kubernetes: The internal components as well as extensions and containers that run on Kubernetes rely on the Kubernetes API.
kubernetes: When a service is defined, one can define the label selectors that will be used by the service router/load balancer to select the pod instances that the traffic will be routed to.
kubernetes: Every node in the cluster must run a container runtime, as well as the below-mentioned components, for communication with the primary network configuration of these containers.
kubernetes: With the release of v1.24 in May 2022, the "dockershim" has been removed entirely.
kubernetes: Unlike labels, the selection is based on the attribute values inherent to the resource being selected, rather than user-defined categorization.
kubernetes: This pattern can be thought of as one that uses Kubernetes itself as a component of the storage system or service.
kubernetes: It allows administrators to manage and troubleshoot applications running in the cluster, as well as the cluster itself.
kubernetes: Kubernetes allows running multiple schedulers within a single cluster.
kubernetes: Some of the more important are:
kubernetes: DNS
Cluster DNS is a DNS server, in addition to the other DNS server(s) in the environment, which serves DNS records for Kubernetes services.
kubernetes: Other companies such as Red Hat and CoreOS joined the effort soon after, with notable contributors such as Clayton Coleman and Kelsey Hightower.
kubernetes: However, many applications have a database, which requires persistence, leading to the creation of persistent storage for Kubernetes.
kubernetes: Just one year later, the CSI feature was made Generally Available (GA) in Kubernetes.
kubernetes: Human operators who look after specific applications and services have deep knowledge of how the system ought to behave, how to deploy it, and how to react if there are problems.
kubernetes: Thus, simply changing the labels of the pods or changing the label selectors on the service can be used to control which pods get traffic and which don't, which can be used to support various deployment patterns like blue–green deployments or A/B testing.
kubernetes: When run in high-availability mode, many databases come with the notion of a primary instance and secondary instances.
kubernetes: Other controllers that are part of the core Kubernetes system include a DaemonSet controller for running exactly one pod on every machine (or some subset of machines), and a Job controller for running pods that run to completion (e.g.
kubernetes: Secrets are often used to store confidential or sensitive data like certificates, credentials to work with image registries, passwords, and ssh keys.
kubernetes: For example, if an application's pods have labels for a system tier (with values such as frontend, backend, for example) and a release_track (with values such as canary, production, for example), then an operation on all of backend and canary nodes can use a label selector, such as:
kubernetes: Originally, kubelet interfaced exclusively with the Docker runtime through a "dockershim".
kubernetes: When deploying containers with Kubernetes or containerized applications, organizations often realize that they need persistent storage.
kubernetes: Other selectors that can be used depend on the object/resource type.
kubernetes: Kubernetes was announced in June, 2014 and version 1.0 was released on July 21, 2015.
kubernetes: Node status is relayed every few seconds via heartbeat messages to the API server.
kubernetes: Examples of problems solved by operators include taking and restoring backups of that application's state, and handling upgrades of the application code alongside related changes such as database schemas or extra configuration settings.
kubernetes: The Container Attached Storage approach or pattern relies on Kubernetes itself for certain capabilities while delivering primarily block, file, object and interfaces to workloads running on Kubernetes.
kubernetes: However, in other scenarios it may be necessary to deploy a pod to every single node in the cluster, scaling up the number of total pods as nodes are added and garbage collecting them as they are removed.
kubernetes: Kubernetes follows the primary/replica architecture.
kubernetes: If the application is scaled up or down, the state may need to be redistributed.
kubernetes: Kubernetes is loosely coupled and extensible to meet the needs of different workloads.
kubernetes: Google worked with the Linux Foundation to form the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) and offered Kubernetes as the seed technology.
kubernetes: An example controller is a ReplicaSet controller, which handles replication and scaling by running a specified number of copies of a pod across the cluster.
kubernetes: Several notable projects under the Cloud Native Computing Foundation's incubation program follow the operator pattern to extend Kubernetes, including Argo, Open Policy Agent and Istio.
kubernetes: Many of its top contributors had previously worked on Borg; they codenamed Kubernetes "Project 7" after the Star Trek ex-Borg character Seven of Nine and gave its logo a seven-spoked ship's wheel (designed by Tim Hockin).
kubernetes: These are typically categorized according to open-source, commercial or managed distributions.
