landslide: During the movement, the rock in the shear zone may also be finely ground, producing a nanometer-size mineral powder that may act as a lubricant, reducing the resistance to motion and promoting larger speeds and longer runouts.
landslide: by altering the shape of a slope, or imposing new loads);
in shallow soils, the removal of deep-rooted vegetation that binds colluvium to bedrock;
agricultural or forestry activities (logging), and urbanization, which change the amount of water infiltrating the soil.
landslide: Clay and silt slides are usually slow but can experience episodic acceleration in response to heavy rainfall or rapid snowmelt.
landslide: Thermal imaging: Thermal images enable to detects temperature variations that may indicate water movement or stress in the slope.
landslide: Both effects may reduce landslides in some conditions.
landslide: This is essentially due to a decrease in the shear strength of the slope material, an increase in the shear stress borne by the material, or a combination of the two.
landslide: This yields negative effects on landslides due to focused infiltration in soil and rock and an increase of runoff events, which may trigger debris flows.
landslide: Landslides are aggravated by human activities, such as:
landslide: Permafrost degradation that reduces the cohesion of soils and rock masses due to the loss of interstitial ice.
landslide: A fall is a movement of isolated blocks or chunks of soil in free-fall.
landslide: In 1978, geologist David Varnes noted this imprecise usage and proposed a new, much tighter scheme for the classification of mass movements and subsidence processes.
landslide: The submarine landslide is thought to be among the largest in history.
landslide: Deep-seated landslides also shape landscapes over geological timescales and produce sediment that strongly alters the course of fluvial streams.
landslide: The planes may be broadly parallel to the surface ("planar slides") or spoon-shaped ("rotational slides").
landslide: Landslide which moved Heart Mountain to its current location, the largest continental landslide discovered so far.
landslide: Earthflows can move at speeds within a very wide range, from as low as 1 mm/yr to many km/h.
landslide: Especially for the largest landslides, it may involve the very quick heating of the shear zone due to friction, which may even cause the water that is present to vaporize and build up a large pressure, producing a sort of hovercraft effect.
landslide: Currently, there exist different type of techniques aimed to monitor landslides:
landslide: On the other side, temperature rise causes an increase of landslides due to
landslide: Temperature rise may increase evapotranspiration, leading to a reduction in soil moisture and stimulate vegetation growth, also due to a CO2 increase in the atmosphere.
landslide: due to the economic and social transformations which occurred in Europe after the Second World War.
landslide: Flows can move imperceptibly for years, or accelerate rapidly and cause disasters.
landslide: Gravity is the primary driving force for a landslide to occur, but there are other factors affecting slope stability that produce specific conditions that make a slope prone to failure.
landslide: It is rarer than other types of landslides but it is often very destructive.
landslide: The 2009 Peloritani Mountains disaster caused 37 deaths, on October 1.
landslide: In many cases, the landslide is triggered by a specific event (such as heavy rainfall, an earthquake, a slope cut to build a road, and many others), although this is not always identifiable.
landslide: Load cells: Measures stress changes in retaining structures or anchors.
landslide: Ground-based radar (GB-SAR): Continuously monitors surface deformation using a SAR sensor and detects movement in real-time.
landslide: This is usually a result of lower shear resistances and steeper slopes.
landslide: It is usually triggered by the saturation of thickly vegetated slopes which results in an incoherent mixture of broken timber, smaller vegetation and other debris.
landslide: Slides can occur catastrophically, but movement on the surface can also be gradual and progressive.
landslide: United States Geological Survey site (archived 25 March 2002)
British Geological Survey landslides site
British Geological Survey National Landslide Database
International Consortium on Landslides Archived 2019-05-08 at the Wayback Machine
landslide: Landslide mitigation describes the policy and practices for reducing the risk of human impacts of landslides, reducing the risk of natural disaster.
landslide: They are often seen on gentle slopes and move over planar surfaces, such as over the underlying bedrock.
landslide: A total volume of 3,500 km3 (840 cu mi) debris was involved; comparable to a 34 m (112 ft) thick area the size of Iceland.
landslide: However, this impact shows strong variability in different areas.
landslide: GIS offers a superior method for landslide analysis because it allows one to capture, store, manipulate, analyze, and display large amounts of data quickly and effectively.
landslide: temporal variation in land use and land cover (LULC): it includes the human abandonment of farming areas, e.g.
landslide: For example, a landslide can initiate as a rock fall or topple and then, as the blocks disintegrate upon the impact, transform into a debris slide or flow.
landslide: Land degradation frequently leads to less stabilization of soil by vegetation.
landslide: Because so many variables are involved, it is important to be able to overlay the many layers of data to develop a full and accurate portrayal of what is taking place on the Earth's surface.
landslide: The Manang-Braga rock avalanche/debris flow may have formed Marsyangdi Valley in the Annapurna Region, Nepal, during an interstadial period belonging to the last glacial period.
landslide: Tiltmeters: Detects small angular changes in the slope surface or retaining walls.
landslide: due to aquifer recharge in rainy seasons, or by rain water infiltration);
increase of hydrostatic pressure in cracks and fractures;
loss or absence of vertical vegetative structure, soil nutrients, and soil structure (e.g.
landslide: Therefore, it is necessary to establish a relationship between the geomorphologic conditions in which the past events took place and the expected future conditions.
landslide: 2005 La Conchita landslide in Ventura, California causing 10 deaths.
landslide: Deep-seated landslides are those in which the sliding surface is mostly deeply located, for instance well below the maximum rooting depth of trees.
landslide: A pyroclastic flow is caused by a collapsing cloud of hot ash, gas and rocks from a volcanic explosion that moves rapidly down an erupting volcano.
landslide: A debris slide is a type of slide characterized by the chaotic movement of material mixed with water and/or ice.
landslide: In some cases, the very high temperature may even cause some of the minerals to melt.
landslide: They can be visually identified by concave scarps at the top and steep areas at the toe.
landslide: The low permeable soil traps the water in the shallower soil generating high water pressures.
landslide: Because landslides occur frequently and can represent some of the most destructive forces on earth, it is imperative to have a good understanding as to what causes them and how people can either help prevent them from occurring or simply avoid them when they do occur.
landslide: The analysis is used to identify the factors that are related to landslides, estimate the relative contribution of factors causing slope failures, establish a relation between the factors and landslides, and to predict the landslide hazard in the future based on such a relationship.
landslide: A change in the stability of a slope can be caused by a number of factors, acting together or alone.
landslide: An avalanching effect can also be present, in which the moving mass entrains additional material along its path.
landslide: However, also dry debris can exhibit flow-like movement.
landslide: Caused massive tsunamis in Doggerland and other areas connected to the North Sea.
landslide: Debris flows and avalanches differ from debris slides because their movement is fluid-like and generally much more rapid.
landslide: 2007 Chittagong mudslide, in Chittagong, Bangladesh, on 11 June 2007.
landslide: Extreme precipitation and flow can cause gully formation in flatter environments not susceptible to landslides.
landslide: Since the '90s, GIS have been also successfully used in conjunction to decision support systems, to show on a map real-time risk evaluations based on monitoring data gathered in the area of the Val Pola disaster (Italy).
landslide: An earthflow is the downslope movement of mostly fine-grained material.
landslide: In general, to predict landslides, one must assume that their occurrence is determined by certain geologic factors, and that future landslides will occur under the same conditions as past events.
landslide: It exhibits typically a long runout, flowing very far over a low-angle, flat, or even slightly uphill terrain.
landslide: Massive landslides can also generate megatsunamis, which are usually hundreds of meters high.
landslide: Failure surfaces can also form within the clay or silt layer itself, and they usually have concave shapes, resulting in rotational slides.
landslide: Shallow landslides can often happen in areas that have slopes with high permeable soils on top of low permeable soils.
landslide: Using satellite imagery in combination with GIS and on-the-ground studies, it is possible to generate maps of likely occurrences of future landslides.
landslide: Zhouqu county mudslide in Gansu, China on 8 August 2010.
landslide: This process also causes the flow to thicken.
landslide: Sustainable land management and development is also an essential key to reducing the negative impacts felt by landslides.
landslide: Clay, fine sand and silt, and fine-grained, pyroclastic material are all susceptible to earthflows.
landslide: A landslide in which the sliding surface is located within the soil mantle or weathered bedrock (typically to a depth from few decimeters to some meters) is called a shallow landslide.
landslide: As the top soil is filled with water, it can become unstable and slide downslope.
landslide: Some landslides are complex in the sense that they feature different movement types in different portions of the moving body, or they evolve from one movement type to another over time.
landslide: Extensometers: Measures displacement along cracks or tension zones.
landslide: The landslide around 200 BC which formed Lake Waikaremoana on the North Island of New Zealand, where a large block of the Ngamoko Range slid and dammed a gorge of Waikaretaheke River, forming a natural reservoir up to 256 metres (840 ft) deep.
landslide: Glacier retreat that has the dual effect of relieving mountain slopes and increasing their steepness.
landslide: Earthflows occur more often during periods of high precipitation, which saturates the ground and builds up water pressures.
landslide: A slide is the movement of a body of material that generally remains intact while moving over one or several inclined surfaces or thin layers of material (also called shear zones) in which large deformations are concentrated.
landslide: Natural causes of landslides include:
landslide: Both Venus and Mars have been subject to long-term mapping by orbiting satellites, and examples of landslides have been observed on both planets.
landslide: increase in water content (loss of suction) or saturation by rain water infiltration, snow melting, or glaciers melting;
rising of groundwater and increase of pore water pressure (e.g.
landslide: Since the average precipitation is expected to decrease or increase regionally, rainfall induced landslides may change accordingly, due to changes in infiltration, groundwater levels and river bank erosion.
landslide: Fissures may develop during the movement of clayey materials, which facilitate the intrusion of water into the moving mass and produce faster responses to precipitation.
landslide: The term topple refers to blocks coming away by rotation from a vertical face.
landslide: Landslides occur when the slope (or a portion of it) undergoes some processes that change its condition from stable to unstable.
landslide: significant rockfall or volcanic collapse into the sea, can generate tsunamis.
landslide: Before and after aerial photographs and satellite imagery are used to gather landslide characteristics, like distribution and classification, and factors like slope, lithology, and land use/land cover to be used to help predict future events.
landslide: Such maps should show the locations of previous events as well as clearly indicate the probable locations of future events.
landslide: Spreads are a form of subsidence, in which a layer of material cracks, opens up, and expands laterally.
landslide: As these lobes spread out, drainage of the mass increases and the margins dry out, lowering the overall velocity of the flow.
landslide: Additionally, global warming caused by climate change and other human impact on the environment, can increase the frequency of natural events (such as extreme weather) which trigger landslides.
landslide: Under this classification, six types of movement are recognized.
landslide: Debris and mud flows may initiate on the slopes or result from the fluidization of landslide material as it gains speed or incorporates further debris and water along its path.
landslide: Val Pola landslide during Valtellina disaster (1987) Italy
Thredbo landslide, Australia on 30 July 1997, destroyed hostel.
landslide: Before and after imagery also helps to reveal how the landscape changed after an event, what may have triggered the landslide, and shows the process of regeneration and recovery.
landslide: Since many factors are considered for landslide hazard mapping, geographic information system (GIS) is an appropriate tool because it has functions of collection, storage, manipulation, display, and analysis of large amounts of spatially referenced data which can be handled fast and effectively.
landslide: In 1958, one such tsunami occurred in Lituya Bay in Alaska, and another was triggered in Tracy Arm in Alaska in 2025.
landslide: They usually involve deep regolith, weathered rock, and/or bedrock and include large slope failures associated with translational, rotational, or complex movements.
landslide: Using GIS, extremely detailed maps can be generated to show past events and likely future events which have the potential to save lives, property, and money.
landslide: On the slopes, some earthflow may be recognized by their elongated shape, with one or more lobes at their toes.
landslide: Cheekye Fan, British Columbia, Canada, about 25 km2 (9.7 mi2), Late Pleistocene in age.
landslide: Cardenas reported evidence on the exhaustive use of GIS in conjunction of uncertainty modelling tools for landslide mapping.
landslide: 2014 Oso mudslide, in Oso, Washington
2017 Mocoa landslide, in Mocoa, Colombia
2022 Ischia landslide
2024 Gofa landslides, in Gofa, Ethiopia
2024 Wayanad landslides, in Wayanad, Kerala, India
2025, in Blatten (Lötschen), Switzerland
2025 Tarasin landslide, Sudan
landslide: Climate change can have both positive and negative impacts on landslides.
landslide: It follows the same principle than InSAR.
landslide: Landslides, also known as landslips, rockslips, rockfalls, mudslides, mudslips or rockslides, are several forms of mass wasting that may include a wide range of ground movements, such as rockfalls, mudflows, shallow or deep-seated slope failures and debris flows.
landslide: This mainly occurs at high elevation.
landslide: 2008 Cairo landslide on 6 September 2008.
landslide: Remote sensing techniques are also highly employed for landslide hazard assessment and analysis.
landslide: As the impoundments fail, a domino effect may be created, with a remarkable growth in the volume of the flowing mass, and in its destructive power.
landslide: Vargas mudslides, due to heavy rains in Vargas State, Venezuela, in December, 1999, causing tens of thousands of deaths.
landslide: 2014 Pune landslide, in Pune, India.
landslide: deforestation, cultivation and construction;
vibrations from machinery or traffic;
blasting and mining;
earthwork (e.g.
landslide: A rock avalanche, sometimes referred to as sturzstrom, is a large and fast-moving landslide of the flow type.
landslide: Landslides are frequently made worse by human development (such as urban sprawl) and resource exploitation (such as mining and deforestation).
landslide: Early predictions and warnings are essential for the reduction of property damage and loss of life.
landslide: after a wildfire);
erosion of the top of a slope by rivers or sea waves;
physical and chemical weathering (e.g.
landslide: They tend to form along a plane of weakness such as a fault or bedding plane.
landslide: UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles): This technique captures high-resolution images and topographic data in inaccessible areas.
landslide: The weakening mechanisms in large rock avalanches are similar to those occurring in seismic faults.
landslide: Though these are a lot like mudflows, overall they are more slow-moving and are covered with solid material carried along by the flow from within.
landslide: cracks and scarps) and mapping landslide-prone areas.
landslide: Flowing debris or mud may pick up trees, houses and cars, and block bridges and rivers causing flooding along its path.
landslide: Slope failure mechanisms often contain large uncertainties and could be significantly affected by heterogeneity of soil properties.
landslide: The classification resulting from the latest update is provided below.
landslide: Therefore, the effects of climate change on landslides need to be studied on a regional scale.
landslide: (2001), and finally by Hungr, Leroueil and Picarelli (2014).
landslide: These flows are usually controlled by the pore water pressures within the mass, which should be high enough to produce a low shearing resistance.
landslide: Slides are also sub-classified by the form of the surface(s) or shear zone(s) on which movement happens.
landslide: The causes of this weakening are not completely understood.
landslide: Devil's Slide, an ongoing landslide in San Mateo County, California
2011 Rio de Janeiro landslide in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil on 11 January 2011, causing 610 deaths.
landslide: Slope deformations are slow, distributed movements that can affect entire mountain slopes or portions of it.
landslide: The factors that have been used for landslide hazard analysis can usually be grouped into geomorphology, geology, land use/land cover, and hydrogeology.
landslide: Each type can be seen both in rock and in soil.
landslide: The eruption of Mount St.
landslide: Landslide hazard analysis and mapping can provide useful information for catastrophic loss reduction, and assist in the development of guidelines for sustainable land-use planning.
landslide: Topographic surveys: Measures displacements of marked targets on a slope.
landslide: This phenomenon is particularly hazardous in alpine areas, where narrow gorges and steep valleys are conducive of faster flows.
landslide: Natural disasters are a dramatic example of people living in conflict with the environment.
landslide: Tsergo Ri landslide, a massive slope failure 60 km (37 mi) north of Kathmandu, Nepal, involving an estimated 10 to 15 km3 (2.4 to 3.6 cu mi).
landslide: The 1966 Aberfan disaster
Tuve landslide in Gothenburg, Sweden on 30 November 1977.
landslide: Storegga Slide, some 8,000 years ago off the western coast of Norway.
landslide: It is ideal for large-scale monitoring.
landslide: River blockages as the flow reaches a main stream can generate temporary dams.
landslide: However, earthflows that keep advancing also during dry seasons are not uncommon.
landslide: Flows are the movement of fluidised material, which can be both dry or rich in water (such as in mud flows).
landslide: Over 15 km3 (3.6 cu mi) of material are estimated to have been moved in the single event, making it one of the largest continental landslides.
landslide: Monte Toc landslide (260 million cubic metres; 9.2 billion cubic feet) falling into the Vajont Dam basin in Italy, causing a megatsunami and about 2000 deaths, on 9 October 1963
Hope Slide landslide (46 million cubic metres; 1.6 billion cubic feet) near Hope, British Columbia on 9 January 1965.
landslide: Typically, debris slides start with the detachment of large rock fragments high on the slopes, which break apart as they descend.
landslide: Optical satellite imagery: Useful for identifying surface changes, geomorphological features (e.g.
landslide: Land degradation and extreme rainfall can increase the frequency of erosion and landslide phenomena.
landslide: Landslides occur in a variety of environments, characterized by either steep or gentle slope gradients, from mountain ranges to coastal cliffs or even underwater, in which case they are called submarine landslides.
landslide: This scheme was later modified by Cruden and Varnes in 1996, and refined by Hutchinson (1988), Hungr et al.
landslide: Debris slides and debris flows are usually shallow.
landslide: Landslides that occur undersea, or have impact into water e.g.
landslide: 2006 Southern Leyte mudslide in Saint Bernard, Southern Leyte, causing 1,126 deaths and buried the village of Guinsaugon.
landslide: The 2010 Uganda landslide caused over 100 deaths following heavy rain in Bududa region.
landslide: LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging): Provides detailed 3D models of terrain to detect changes over time by comparison of different point clouds acquired over time.
landslide: Helens(18 May 1980) caused an enormous landslide when the top 1,300 feet of the volcano gave way after a magnitude 5.1 earthquake, largest landslide in recorded history, accompanying eruption killed 57 people.
landslide: the acceleration of snowmelt and an increase of rain on snow during spring, leading to strong infiltration events.
landslide: Prior to this landslide the mountain may have been the world's 15th mountain above 8,000 m (26,247 ft).
landslide: Researchers need to know which variables are the most important factors that trigger landslides in any given location.
landslide: The 1979 Abbotsford landslip, Dunedin, New Zealand on 8 August 1979.
landslide: Inclinometers: Detects subsurface movements by monitoring changes in the inclination of a borehole.
landslide: Weather extremes are expected to increase due to climate change including heavy precipitation.
landslide: Flims Rockslide, about 12 km3 (2.9 mi3), Switzerland, some 10,000 years ago in post-glacial Pleistocene/Holocene, the largest so far described in the Alps and on dry land that can be easily identified in a modestly eroded state.
landslide: The mechanisms favoring the long runout can be different, but they typically result in the weakening of the sliding mass as the speed increases.
landslide: In the 48 million years since the slide occurred, erosion has removed most of the portion of the slide.
