literature: An example of this is in the 1910–1911 Encyclopædia Britannica, which classified literature as "the best expression of the best thought reduced to writing".
literature: In recent centuries, the definition has expanded to include oral literature, much of which has been transcribed.
literature: Copyright is a type of intellectual property that gives its owner the exclusive right to make copies of a creative work, usually for a limited time.
literature: This distinction is complicated by various hybrid forms such as digital poetry, sound poetry, concrete poetry and prose poem, and more generally by the fact that prose possesses rhythm.
literature: The plays of Aristophanes (c.
literature: However, in 2004 Japan extended the copyright term to 70 years for cinematographic works.
literature: 570 BC) and Pindar were influential lyric poets, and Herodotus (c.
literature: The Hebrew religious text, the Torah, is widely seen as a product of the Persian period (539–333 BC, probably 450–350 BC).
literature: 1000–500 BC, resulting in a Vedic period, spanning the mid-2nd to mid-1st millennium BC, or the Late Bronze Age and the Iron Age.
literature: As Islam spread, the Quran had the effect of unifying and standardizing Arabic.
literature: According to Goody, the Vedic texts likely involved both a written and oral tradition, calling it a "parallel products of a literate society".
literature: This represents a major source of Christianity's Bible, which has had a major influence on Western literature.
literature: Classical Greek genres included philosophy, poetry, historiography, comedies and dramas.
literature: Alternatives such as "oral forms" and "oral genres" have been suggested, but the word literature is widely used.
literature: The theory suggests that literature helps an individual's struggle for self-fulfillment.
literature: Oral storytelling traditions flourished in a context without the use of writing to record and preserve history, scientific knowledge, and social practices.
literature: Homer's epic poetry, states Michael Gagarin, was largely composed, performed and transmitted orally.
literature: Developments in print technology have allowed an ever-growing distribution and proliferation of written works, while the digital era has blurred the lines between online electronic literature and other forms of modern media.
literature: Ancient Egyptian literature, along with Sumerian literature, are considered the world's oldest literatures.
literature: Additionally, she was the first woman to be granted a membership in The Swedish Academy in 1914.
literature: A notable example of censorship is James Joyce's novel Ulysses, which has been described by Russian-American novelist Vladimir Nabokov as a "divine work of art" and the greatest masterpiece of 20th century prose.
literature: It was banned in the United States from 1921 until 1933 on the grounds of obscenity.
literature: Literary fiction is a term used to describe fiction that explores any facet of the human condition, and may involve social commentary.
literature: The Chinese inventor Bi Sheng made movable type of earthenware c.
literature: 5th century BC) and Chinese history (e.g.
literature: From antiquity until the present day, the influence of Homeric epic on Western civilization has been significant, inspiring many of its most famous works of literature, music, art and film.
literature: It can be seen as returning to older, more inclusive notions, so that cultural studies, for instance, include, in addition to canonical works, popular and minority genres.
literature: The word is also used in reference to non-written works: to "oral literature" and "the literature of preliterate culture".
literature: Prior to printing, distributed works were copied manually, by scribes.
literature: This consensus echoes a traditional Jewish view which gives Ezra, the leader of the Jewish community on its return from Babylon, a pivotal role in its promulgation.
literature: Possibly as a result of Aristotle's influence (his Poetics), "poetry" before the 19th century was usually less a technical designation for verse than a normative category of fictive or rhetorical art.
literature: In a study published in February 2020, new evidence showed that both Budj Bim and Tower Hill volcanoes erupted between 34,000 and 40,000 years ago.
literature: A fundamental question of literary theory is "what is literature?" – although many contemporary theorists and literary scholars believe either that "literature" cannot be defined or that it can refer to any use of language.
literature: The Qur'an (610 AD–632 AD), the main holy book of Islam, had a significant influence on the Arab language, and marked the beginning of Islamic literature.
literature: In ancient China, early literature was primarily focused on philosophy, historiography, military science, agriculture, and poetry.
literature: It was not until the early Middle Kingdom (21st century BC to 17th century BC) that a narrative Egyptian literature was created.
literature: Among the last important books written primarily in Latin prose were the works of Swedenborg (d.
literature: Many works of early periods, even in narrative form, had a covert moral or didactic purpose, such as the Sanskrit Panchatantra (200 BC–300 AD), based on older oral tradition.
literature: Etymologically, the term derives from Latin literatura/litteratura, "learning, writing, grammar," originally "writing formed with letters," from litera/littera, "letter." In spite of this, the term has also been applied to spoken or sung texts.
literature: For example, rather than yelling, Inuit parents might deter their children from wandering too close to the water's edge by telling a story about a sea monster with a pouch for children within its reach.
literature: Sanskrit literature begins with the Vedas, dating back to 1500–1000 BC, and continues with the Sanskrit Epics of Iron Age India.
literature: It includes both print and digital writing.
literature: Other European languages do not distinguish between romance and novel: "a novel is le roman, der Roman, il romanzo", indicates the proximity of the forms.
literature: Oral literature is an ancient human tradition found in "all corners of the world." Modern archaeology has been unveiling evidence of the human efforts to preserve and transmit arts and knowledge that depended completely or partially on an oral tradition, across various cultures:
literature: Theological works in Latin were the dominant form of literature in Europe typically found in libraries during the Middle Ages.
literature: Hesiod's Works and Days (c.700 BC) and Theogony are some of the earliest and most influential works of ancient Greek literature.
literature: Graphic novels and comic books present stories told in a combination of artwork, dialogue, and text.
literature: In Asia, the transmission of folklore, mythologies as well as scriptures in ancient India, in different Indian religions, was by oral tradition, preserved with precision with the help of elaborate mnemonic techniques.
literature: Nearly all drama took verse form until comparatively recently.
literature: The history of newspaper publishing began in Germany in 1609, with the publishing of magazines following in 1663.
literature: The beginning of Roman literature dates to 240 BC, when a Roman audience saw a Latin version of a Greek play.
literature: Plato (428/427 or 424/423 – 348/347 BC) and Aristotle (384–322 BC) authored philosophical texts that are regarded as the foundation of Western philosophy, Sappho (c.
literature: China, the origin of modern paper making and woodblock printing, produced the world's first print cultures.
literature: [short stories] seem to answer something very deep in our nature as if, for the duration of its telling, something special has been created, some essence of our experience extrapolated, some temporary sense has been made of our common, turbulent journey towards the grave and oblivion.
literature: As noted above, prose generally makes far less use of the aesthetic qualities of language than poetry.
literature: A novel is a long fictional narrative, usually written in prose.
literature: This developed as a performance associated with religious and civic festivals, typically enacting or developing upon well-known historical, or mythological themes,
In the twentieth century, scripts written for non-stage media have been added to this form, including radio, television and film.
literature: However, developments in modern literature, including free verse and prose poetry have tended to blur the differences, and poet T.S.
literature: Especially important was the great Roman orator Cicero.
literature: "A man born in 1453, the year of the fall of Constantinople, could look back from his fiftieth year on a lifetime in which about eight million books had been printed, more perhaps than all the scribes of Europe had produced since Constantine founded his city in A.D.
literature: Selma Lagerlöf (1858–1940) was the first woman to win the Nobel Prize in Literature, which she was awarded in 1909.
literature: Australian Aboriginal culture has thrived on oral traditions and oral histories passed down through tens of thousands of years.
literature: Literary criticism is one of the oldest academic disciplines, and is concerned with the literary merit or intellectual significance of specific texts.
literature: There were few English-language women poets whose names are remembered until the twentieth century.
literature: A later form of medieval fiction was the romance, an adventurous and sometimes magical narrative with strong popular appeal.
literature: Western Vernacular literature includes the Poetic Edda and the sagas, or heroic epics, of Iceland, the Anglo-Saxon Beowulf, and the German Song of Hildebrandt.
literature: In late 1820s England, growing political and social awareness, "particularly among the utilitarians and Benthamites, promoted the possibility of including courses in English literary study in the newly formed London University".
literature: Censorship of literature is employed by states, religious organizations, educational institutions, etc., to control what can be portrayed, spoken, performed, or written.
literature: Plots often reflect real life situations and may be aimed at particular people known by the story's audience.
literature: In ancient India, literature originated from stories that were originally orally transmitted.
literature: The earliest of these books were educational books, books on conduct, and simple ABCs—often decorated with animals, plants, and anthropomorphic letters.
literature: Controversial, religious, political and instructional literature proliferated during the European Renaissance as a result of the Johannes Gutenberg's invention of the printing press around 1440, while the Medieval romance developed into the novel.
literature: This invention made books less expensive to produce and therefore more widely available.
literature: The Nobel Prize in Literature was one of the six Nobel Prizes established by the will of Alfred Nobel in 1895, and is awarded to an author on the basis of their body of work, rather than to, or for, a particular work itself.
literature: The traditions of close study of religious texts has furthered the development of techniques and theories in literary studies.
literature: The earliest known Greek writings are Mycenaean (c.
literature: Copyright in the Union is furthermore dependent on international conventions to which the European Union is a member (such as the TRIPS Agreement and conventions to which all Member States are parties (such as the Berne Convention)).
literature: Publishing became possible with the invention of writing but became more practical with the invention of printing.
literature: Early genres included drama, fables, sutras and epic poetry.
literature: Publishers and literary award societies typically consider a novella to be between 17,000 and 40,000 words.
literature: Sima Qian's Records of the Grand Historian, c.
literature: The use of the term "literature" here poses some issues due to its origins in the Latin littera, "letter," essentially writing.
literature: It can also have a social, psychological, spiritual, or political role.
literature: An exemplary piece of narrative history of ancient China was the Zuo Zhuan, which was compiled no later than 389 BC, and attributed to the blind 5th-century BC historian Zuo Qiuming.
literature: Drama and satire also developed as urban cultures, which provided a larger public audience, and later readership for literary production.
literature: The Homeric epics were the greatest influence on ancient Greek culture and education; to Plato, Homer was simply the one who "has taught Greece" – ten Hellada pepaideuken.
literature: 425 BC) and Thucydides were early Greek historians.
literature: The Judeo-Christian Bible reveals its oral traditional roots; medieval European manuscripts are penned by performing scribes; geometric vases from archaic Greece mirror Homer's oral style.
literature: Index of literature articles
literature: On the historical development of prose, Richard Graff notes that, in the case of ancient Greece, "recent scholarship has emphasized the fact that formal prose was a comparatively late development, an 'invention' properly associated with the classical period".
literature: Although drama was popular in ancient Greece, of the hundreds of tragedies written and performed during the classical age, only a limited number of plays by three authors still exist: Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides.
literature: The earliest form of which there exists substantial knowledge is Greek drama.
literature: Non-fiction can fall within the broad category of literature as "any collection of written work", but some works fall within the narrower definition "by virtue of the excellence of their writing, their originality and their general aesthetic and artistic merits".
literature: Subsequent innovations included more uniform, predictable legal systems, sacred texts, and the origins of modern practices of scientific inquiry and knowledge-consolidation, all largely reliant on portable and easily reproducible forms of writing.
literature: The creative work may be in a literary, artistic, educational, or musical form.
literature: The widespread education of women was not common until the nineteenth century, and because of this, literature until recently was mostly male dominated.
literature: Much of Chinese literature originates with the Hundred Schools of Thought period that occurred during the Eastern Zhou dynasty (769–269 BC).
literature: The following, by the British author William Boyd on the short story, might be applied to all prose fiction:
literature: The publisher Melville House classifies the novella as "too short to be a novel, too long to be a short story".
literature: A play is a written dramatic work by a playwright that is intended for performance in a theatre; it comprises chiefly dialogue between characters.
literature: Sun Tzu's The Art of War, c.
literature: Modern scholars consider these accounts legendary.
literature: 330."
Eventually, printing enabled other forms of publishing besides books.
literature: While some stories were told for amusement and leisure, most functioned as practical lessons from tribal experience applied to immediate moral, social, psychological, and environmental issues.
literature: But while generally women are absent from the European canon of Romantic literature, there is one notable exception, the French novelist and memoirist Amantine Dupin (1804–1876) best known by her pen name George Sand.
literature: Copyright is intended to protect the original expression of an idea in the form of a creative work, but not the idea itself.
literature: One study, for example, suggested that the presence of familiar cultural values in literary texts played an important impact on the performance of minority students.
literature: As folklores and legends were performed in front of distant audiences, the singers would substitute the names in the stories with local characters or rulers to give the stories a local flavor and thus connect with the audience by making the historicity embedded in the oral tradition as unreliable.
literature: "Literature", as an art form, is sometimes used synonymously with literary fiction, fiction written with the goal of artistic merit, but can also include works in various non-fiction genres, such as biography, diaries, memoirs, letters, and essays.
literature: Lyric poetry (as opposed to epic poetry) was often the speciality of courts and aristocratic circles, particularly in East Asia where songs were collected by the Chinese aristocracy as poems, the most notable being the Shijing or Book of Songs (1046–c.
literature: 1450, Johannes Gutenberg invented movable type in Europe.
literature: Although there are many historical prototypes, so-called "novels before the novel", the modern novel form emerges late in cultural history—roughly during the eighteenth century.
literature: There are verse novels, a type of narrative poetry in which a novel-length narrative is told through the medium of poetry rather than prose.
literature: Early printed books, single sheets, and images created before 1501 in Europe are known as incunables or incunabula.
literature: Writing systems are not known to have existed among Native North Americans (north of Mesoamerica) before contact with Europeans.
literature: At the end of 2018, as a result of the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations, the 70-year term was applied to all works.
literature: From ancient Greece to the late 19th century, rhetoric played a central role in Western education in training orators, lawyers, counselors, historians, statesmen, and poets.
literature: Psychologist Hogan argues for the value of the time and emotion that a person devotes to understanding a character's situation in literature; that it can unite a large community by provoking universal emotions, as well as allowing readers access to different cultures, and new emotional experiences.
literature: for first-time writers or debut novels).
literature: East metal movable type was spread to Europe between the late 14th century and early 15th century.
literature: Though in both ancient Egypt and Mesoamerica, writing may have already emerged because of the need to record historical and environmental events.
literature: Drama is literature intended for performance.
literature: Eliot suggested that while "the distinction between verse and prose is clear, the distinction between poetry and prose is obscure".
literature: (...) Indeed, if these final decades of the millennium have taught us anything, it must be that oral tradition never was the other we accused it of being; it never was the primitive, preliminary technology of communication we thought it to be.
literature: One of the more popular writers in Europe in her lifetime, being more renowned than both Victor Hugo and Honoré de Balzac in England in the 1830s and 1840s, Sand is recognised as one of the most notable writers of the European Romantic era.
literature: An axe found underneath volcanic ash in 1947 had already proved that humans inhabited the region before the eruption of Tower Hill.
literature: The romance is a closely related long prose narrative.
literature: Literature is often referred to synecdochically as "writing," especially creative writing, and poetically as "the craft of writing" (or simply "the craft").
literature: The most important of these include the Classics of Confucianism, of Daoism, of Mohism, of Legalism, as well as works of military science (e.g.
literature: 1783), Gauss (d.
literature: Walter Scott defined it as "a fictitious narrative in prose or verse; the interest of which turns upon marvelous and uncommon incidents", whereas in the novel "the events are accommodated to the ordinary train of human events and the modern state of society".
literature: The term is also used more narrowly for writings considered an art form, especially novels, plays, and poems.
literature: Psychologists have also been using literature as a therapeutic tool.
literature: Copyright law is largely harmonized in the Union, although country to country differences exist.
literature: A closet drama, by contrast, is written to be read rather than to be performed; the meaning of which can be realized fully on the page.
literature: The main copyright directives are the Copyright Term Directive, the Information Society Directive and the Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market.
literature: Nowadays it is a central literary text in English literature courses, throughout the world.
literature: Generally such bodies attempt to ban works for political reasons, or because they deal with other controversial matters such as race, or sex.
literature: Literature in Latin would flourish for the next six centuries, and includes essays, histories, poems, plays, and other writings.
literature: A separate genre of children's literature only began to emerge in the eighteenth century, with the development of the concept of childhood.
literature: Project Gutenberg Online Library
Digital eBook Collection – Internet Archive
literature: It was the lingua franca among literate Europeans until quite recent times, and the great works of Descartes (1596 – 1650), Francis Bacon (1561–1626), and Baruch Spinoza (1632–1677) were published in Latin.
literature: The convention protected copyrighted works for 50 years after the author's death (or 50 years after publication for unknown authors and corporations).
literature: Rather, if the whole truth is told, oral tradition stands out as the single most dominant communicative technology of our species as both a historical fact and, in many areas still, a contemporary reality.
literature: 1778), Euler (d.
literature: As a form it may pre-date literacy, with the earliest works being composed within and sustained by an oral tradition; hence it constitutes the earliest example of literature.
literature: A dilemma in defining the "short story" as a literary form is how to, or whether one should, distinguish it from any short narrative and its contested origin, that include the Bible, and Edgar Allan Poe.
literature: All ancient Greek literature was to some degree oral in nature, and the earliest literature was completely so.
literature: In the nineteenth century some notable individuals include Emily Brontë, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and Emily Dickinson (see American poetry).
literature: Jane Austen (1775–1817) is the first major English woman novelist, while Aphra Behn is an early female dramatist.
literature: Most researchers believe that the poems were originally transmitted orally.
literature: These documents contain prosaic records largely concerned with trade (lists, inventories, receipts, etc.); no real literature has been discovered.
literature: It is often regarded as having more artistic merit than genre fiction, especially the most commercially oriented types, but this has been contested in recent years, with the serious study of genre fiction within universities.
literature: It was established as federal law with the Copyright Act of 1790.
literature: Around the 4th millennium BC, the complexity of trade and administration in Mesopotamia outgrew human memory, and writing became a more dependable method of recording and presenting transactions in a permanent form.
literature: Homer's epic poems, the Iliad and the Odyssey, are central works of ancient Greek literature.
literature: This act was updated many times, including a major revision in 1976.
literature: The Vedas are among the oldest sacred texts.
literature: In this way, social pressure could be exerted without directly causing embarrassment or social exclusion.
literature: Ancient Chinese literature had a heavy emphasis on historiography, with often very detailed court records.
literature: Given the diversity of the field, awards are typically limited in scope, usually on: form, genre, language, nationality and output (e.g.
literature: Initially subject to much criticism, the novel has acquired a dominant position amongst literary forms, both popularly and critically.
literature: Feminist scholars have since the twentieth century sought to expand the literary canon to include more women writers.
literature: The Samhitas (vedic collections) date to roughly 1500–1000 BC, and the "circum-Vedic" texts, as well as the redaction of the Samhitas, date to c.
literature: In Western Europe, prior to the 18th century, literature denoted all books and writing.
literature: Within this broader definition, literature includes non-fictional books, articles, or other written information on a particular subject.
literature: Muslims believe it was transcribed in the Arabic dialect of the Quraysh, the tribe of Muhammad.
literature: Around 1230, Koreans invented a metal type movable printing.
literature: This further developed into the idea of the study of literature being "the ideal carrier for the propagation of the humanist cultural myth of a well educated, culturally harmonious nation".
literature: 1772), Linnaeus (d.
literature: Latin was a major influence on the development of prose in many European countries.
literature: In English, the term emerged from the Romance languages in the late 15th century, with the meaning of "news"; it came to indicate something new, without a distinction between fact or fiction.
literature: 1600–1100 BC), written in the Linear B syllabary on clay tablets.
literature: 1045 and was spread to Korea later.
literature: Abram Lipsky refers to it as an "open secret" that "prose is not distinguished from poetry by lack of rhythm".
literature: Other literary prizes for which all nationalities are eligible include: the Neustadt International Prize for Literature, the Man Booker International Prize, Pulitzer Prize, Hugo Award, Guardian First Book Award and the Franz Kafka Prize.
literature: 1855), and Isaac Newton (d.
literature: The body of law was implemented in the EU through a number of directives, which the member states need to enact into their national law.
literature: Definitions of literature have varied over time.
literature: It is generally accepted that the poems were composed at some point around the late eighth or early seventh century BC.
literature: Syd Field described his discipline, screenwriting, as "a craft that occasionally rises to the level of art."
A value judgment definition of literature considers it as consisting solely of high quality writing that forms part of the belles-lettres ("fine writing") tradition.
literature: 386 BC) provide the only real examples of a genre of comic drama known as Old Comedy, the earliest form of Greek Comedy, and are in fact used to define the genre.
literature: The study of books and other texts as artifacts or traditions is instead encompassed by textual criticism or the history of the book.
literature: Literature is a method of recording, preserving, and transmitting knowledge and entertainment.
literature: Psychologist Maslow's ideas help literary critics understand how characters in literature reflect their personal culture and the history.
literature: This new term is not applied retroactively; works that had entered the public domain between 1999 and 2018 by expiration would remain in the public domain.
literature: The earliest poetry is believed to have been recited or sung, employed as a way of remembering history, genealogy, and law.
literature: Nobel Prizes in Literature have been awarded between 1901 and 2020 to 117 individuals: 101 men and 16 women.
literature: Eugene Onegin (1831) by Alexander Pushkin is the most famous example.
literature: The period between approximately the 6th to 1st centuries BC saw the composition and redaction of the two most influential Indian epics, the Mahabharata and the Ramayana, with subsequent redaction progressing down to the 4th century AD such as Ramcharitmanas.
literature: Literature is any collection of written work.
literature: Religion has had a major influence on literature, through works like the Vedas, the Torah, the Bible, and the Quran.
literature: Prior to the 19th century, poetry was commonly understood to be something set in metrical lines: "any kind of subject consisting of Rhythm or Verses".
literature: The form is combined with music and dance in opera and musical theatre (see libretto).
literature: Stories fuse fictional, supernatural, or otherwise exaggerated characters and circumstances with real emotions and morals as a means of teaching.
