loan: Although this article focuses on monetary loans, in practice, any material object might be lent.
loan: In the context of college loans in the United States, it refers to a loan on which no interest is accrued while a student remains enrolled in education.
loan: Usury is a different form of abuse, where the lender charges excessive interest.
loan: Repayment of the loan is not gross income to the lender.
loan: Interest paid to the lender is included in the lender's gross income.
loan: Thus, if a debt is discharged, then the borrower essentially has received income equal to the amount of the indebtedness.
loan: Interest paid to the lender may be deductible by the borrower.
loan: The rationale here is that one asset (the cash) has been converted into a different asset (a promise of repayment).
loan: For a more detailed description of the "discharge of indebtedness", look at Section 108 (Cancellation-of-debt income) of the Internal Revenue Code.
loan: There are two types of auto loans, direct and indirect.
loan: For more information, see monthly amortized loan or mortgage payments.
loan: Demand loans may be unsecured or secured.
loan: Similarly, a loan taken out to buy a car may be secured by the car.
loan: The credit score of the borrower is a major component in underwriting and interest rates (APR) of these loans.
loan: Other forms of secured loans include loans against securities – such as shares, mutual funds, bonds, etc.
loan: Loans to businesses are similar to the above but also include commercial mortgages and corporate bonds and government guaranteed loans Underwriting is not based upon credit score but rather credit rating.
loan: A personal loan can be obtained from banks, alternative (non-bank) lenders, online loan providers and private lenders.
loan: In the case of home loans, if the borrower defaults on the loan, the bank would have the legal right to repossess the house and sell it, to recover sums owing to it.
loan: It usually involves granting a loan in order to put the borrower in a position that one can gain advantage over them; subprime mortgage-lending and payday-lending are two examples, where the moneylender is not authorized or regulated, the lender could be considered a loan shark.
loan: Deductions are not typically available when an outlay serves to create a new or different asset.
loan: In a direct auto loan, a bank lends the money directly to a consumer.
loan: Benefits of a bridge loan include quicker access to funding while drawbacks include higher interest rates.
loan: In general, interest paid in connection with the borrower's business activity is deductible, while interest paid on personal loans are not deductible.
loan: Thus, a higher interest rate reflects the additional risk that in the event of insolvency, the debt may be uncollectible.
loan: The duration of the loan is much shorter –  often corresponding to the useful life of the car.
loan: The document evidencing the debt (e.g., a promissory note) will normally specify, among other things, the principal amount of money borrowed, the interest rate the lender is charging, and the date of repayment.
loan: The major exception here is interest paid on a home mortgage.
loan: In insolvency proceedings, secured lenders traditionally have priority over unsecured lenders when a court divides up the borrower's assets.
loan: If Y discharges the indebtedness, then X no longer owes Y $50,000.
loan: In the United Kingdom, when applied to individuals, these may come under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
loan: Demand loans can be "called" for repayment by the lending institution at any time.
loan: This particular instrument issues customers a line of credit based on the quality of the securities pledged.
loan: The interest rates for secured loans are usually lower than those of unsecured loans.
loan: Abuses can also take place in the form of the customer defrauding the lender by borrowing without intending to repay the loan.
loan: Credit cards
Personal loans
Bank overdrafts
Credit facilities or lines of credit
Corporate bonds (secured or unsecured)
Peer-to-peer lending
The interest rates applicable to these different forms may vary depending on the lender and the borrower.
loan: Bridge loans require collateral such as a home for an individual or inventory or commercial real estate for a business, in order to secure a bridge loan as the bank insures that they will get the property if it doesn’t sell quickly.
loan: The lender may not deduct (from own gross income) the amount of the loan.
loan: The lender, usually a financial institution, is given security –  a lien on the title to the property –  until the mortgage is paid off in full.
loan: Gold loans are issued to customers after evaluating the quantity and quality of gold in the items pledged.
loan: In effect, the promise of repayment is converted back to cash, with no accession to wealth by the lender.
loan: The monthly payments of personal loans can be decreased by selecting longer payment terms, but overall interest paid increases as well.
loan: The interest provides an incentive for the lender to engage in the loan.
loan: Instead, demand loans carry a floating interest rate, which varies according to the prime lending rate or other defined contract terms.
loan: Common personal loans include mortgage loans, car loans, home equity lines of credit, credit cards, installment loans, and payday loans.
loan: The fixed monthly payment P for a loan of L for n months and a monthly interest rate c is:
loan: A mortgage loan is a very common type of loan, used by many individuals to purchase residential or commercial property.
loan: This is often used when a buyer is insolvent such as needing quick cash flow or when they are planning to buy a new asset before selling an old asset such as a buyer wanting to buy a new house before selling their home.
loan: Interest rates on unsecured loans are nearly always higher than for secured loans because an unsecured lender's options for recourse against the borrower in the event of default are severely limited, subjecting the lender to higher risk compared to that encountered for a secured loan.
loan: Interest paid represents compensation for the use of the lender's money or property and thus represents profit or an accession to wealth to the lender.
loan: The amount paid to satisfy the loan obligation is not deductible (from own gross income) by the borrower.
loan: A secured loan is a form of debt in which the borrower pledges some asset (i.e., a car, a house) as collateral.
loan: Such loans may be made by foreign governments to developing countries or may be offered to employees of lending institutions as an employee benefit (sometimes called a perk).
loan: For other institutions, issuing debt contracts such as bonds is a typical source of funding.
loan: For purposes of calculating income, this is treated the same way as if Y gave X $50,000.
loan: An unsecured lender must sue the borrower, obtain a money judgment for breach of contract, and then pursue execution of the judgment against the borrower's unencumbered assets (that is, the ones not already pledged to secured lenders).
loan: Usually, the lending institution employs people (on a roll or on a contract basis) to evaluate the quality of pledged collateral before sanctioning the loan.
loan: Acting as a provider of loans is one of the main activities of financial institutions such as banks and credit card companies.
loan: In finance, a loan is the tender of money by one party to another with an agreement to pay it back.
loan: These may be available from financial institutions under many different guises or marketing packages:
loan: The recipient, or borrower, incurs a debt and is usually required to pay interest for the use of the money.
loan: A loan entails the reallocation of the subject asset(s) for a period of time, between the lender and the borrower.
loan: Since the borrower has the obligation to repay the loan, the borrower has no accession to wealth.
loan: Example: X owes Y $50,000.
loan: In a legal loan, each of these obligations and restrictions is enforced by contract, which can also place the borrower under additional restrictions known as loan covenants.
loan: A loan is not gross income to the borrower.
loan: Credit card companies in some countries have been accused by consumer organizations of lending at usurious interest rates and making money out of frivolous "extra charges".
loan: In an indirect auto loan, a car dealership (or a connected company) acts as an intermediary between the bank or financial institution and the consumer.
loan: Interest income can be attributed to lenders even if the lender does not charge a minimum amount of interest.
loan: These may or may not be regulated by law.
loan: Corporate entities can also take out secured lending by pledging the company's assets, including the company itself.
loan: Loan modification can avoid defaults.
