logistics: Similarly to production systems, logistic systems need to be properly configured and managed.
logistics: Humanitarian logistics or emergency logistics: these terms are used by the logistics, supply chain, and manufacturing industries to denote specific time-critical modes of transport used to move goods rapidly in the event of an emergency.
logistics: … il paraît le faire dériver du mot logis, étymologie singulière …
Logistic: This word appears to me to be completely new, as I have not yet seen it anywhere in military literature.
logistics: The opposite of reverse logistics is forward logistics.
logistics: RAM logistics (see also Logistic engineering) combines both business logistics and military logistics since it concerns highly complicated technological systems for which reliability, availability and maintainability are essential, e.g., weapon system and military supercomputers.
logistics: Right product (including the right information about it)
(At) right quantity
Right time
Right condition
Right place
(to) the right customer
(with the) right (financial) resources
logistics: Modern freight transportation relies heavily on fleet management to improve efficiency and safety.
logistics: Green logistics describes all attempts to measure and minimize the ecological impact of logistics activities, including all activities of the forward and reverse flows.
logistics: Manual picking can be both man-to-goods, i.e.
logistics: Modern construction logistics uses automatic vehicle location (AVL) to manage the movement of heavy equipment and materials.
logistics: Distribution logistics is necessary because production time, place, and quantity differ with the time, place, and quantity of consumption.
logistics: The defeat of the British in the American War of Independence and the defeat of the Axis in the African theater of World War II are attributed by some scholars to logistical failures.
logistics: Formerly the officers of the general staff were named marshal of lodgings, major-general of lodgings; from there came the term logistics [logistique], which we employ to designate those who are in charge of the functioning of an army.
logistics: Inbound logistics is one of the primary logistics processes, focusing on the purchasing and arrangement of the inbound movement of materials, parts, or unfinished inventory from suppliers to manufacturing or assembly plants, warehouses, or retail stores.
logistics: External 3PL providers have evolved from merely providing logistics capabilities to becoming real orchestrators of supply chains that create and sustain a competitive advantage, thus bringing about new levels of logistics outsourcing.
logistics: Asset control logistics: companies in the retail channels, both organized retailers and suppliers, often deploy assets required for the display, preservation, and promotion of their products.
logistics: A new trend in the industry is the 4PL, or fourth-party logistics, firms, consulting companies offering logistics services.
logistics: It is "the process of planning, implementing, and controlling the efficient, cost-effective flow of raw materials, in-process inventory, finished goods, and related information from the point of consumption to the point of origin to recapture value or proper disposal".
logistics: In the logistics business, a logistical system is designed at a minimum cost based on the expected customer service level.
logistics: A university with a primary focus on logistics is Kühne Logistics University in Hamburg, Germany.
logistics: Distribution resource planning (DRP) is similar to MRP, except that it does not concern activities inside the nodes of the network but planning distribution when moving goods through the links of the network.
logistics: The effectiveness of global logistics is measured in the Logistics Performance Index.
logistics: Having a stockpile of finished goods beforehand can reduce the frequency of transportation and cope with the randomness of customer demands.
logistics: Other classes of supply must consider a third variable besides usage and quantity: time.
logistics: According to this definition, third-party logistics includes any form of outsourcing of logistics activities previously performed in house.
logistics: Modern distribution often includes the use of a vehicle tracking system to monitor shipments by collecting real-time vehicle location data.
logistics: Sorting can be done manually through carts or conveyor belts, or automatically through sorters.
logistics: This can involve using a tracking system to monitor the location and status of these assets.
logistics: Configuration at the level of the distribution system concerns primarily the problem of location of the nodes in geographic space and distribution of capacity among the nodes.
logistics: Storage systems include: pile stocking, cell racks (either static or movable), cantilever racks and gravity racks.
logistics: CILT programs can be studied at centers around the UK, some of which also offer distance learning options.
logistics: Cargo can be consolidated into pallets or containers.
logistics: It consists of order processing, warehousing, and transportation.
logistics: Decisions have to be made under a set of constraints: internal, such as using the available infrastructure, or external, such as complying with the given product shelf lifes and expiration dates.
logistics: More precisely, reverse logistics is the process of moving goods from their typical final destination for the purpose of capturing value, or proper disposal.
logistics: For industrial goods such as raw materials and equipment, intermediaries are not needed because manufacturers can sell a large number of goods to a user.
logistics: The term is used, for example, in military logistics for the assembly of resources ahead of troop arrival or the delivery of infrastructure components.
logistics: Humanitarian logistics involves governments, the military, aid agencies, donors, non-governmental organizations, and emergency logistics services are typically sourced from a specialist provider.
logistics: This often requires an intermodal transport system via ocean, air, rail, and truck.
logistics: Global logistics is technically the process of managing the "flow" of goods through a supply chain from its place of production to other parts of the world.
logistics: Note that subsidiaries will be mostly owned by another company and franchisers, although using other company brands, actually own the point of sale.
logistics: In this example extending common transportation networks, their warehouse infrastructure and the ability to provide more complex service packages can be achieved by combining resources.
logistics: Since manufacturing in an existing plant is a constantly changing process, machines are exchanged and new ones added, which allows for improving the production logistics system accordingly.
logistics: Direct store delivery, i.e.
logistics: Note that the logistician may be required to manage the reverse flow along with the forward flow.
logistics: l'art de bien ordonner les marches d'une armée, de bien combiner l'ordre des troupes dans les colonnes, les tems [temps] de leur départ, leur itinéraire, les moyens de communications nécessaires pour assurer leur arrivée à point nommé ...
logistics: By recording and analyzing these trends over time and applying them to future scenarios, the US Armed Forces can accurately supply troops with the items necessary at the precise moment they are needed.
logistics: Routing path: standard alternatives include transversal routing, return routing, midpoint routing, and largest gap return routing
Replenishment method: standard alternatives include equal space supply for each product class and equal time supply for each product class.
logistics: On one hand, they can "access tangible resources which are directly exploitable".
logistics: In recent years, it has emerged as a distinct field of study within supply chain management and logistics.
logistics: A single contract for supplying a specific service on occasion
Creation of a spin-off
Creation of a joint venture
Third-party logistics (3PL) involves using external organizations to execute logistics activities that have traditionally been performed within an organization itself.
logistics: Militaries have a significant need for logistics solutions and so have developed advanced implementations.
logistics: The purpose of having an inventory is to reduce the overall logistical cost while improving service to customers.
logistics: The related information flows from the end of the production line to the end user.
logistics: Physical metrics used to evaluate inventory systems include stocking capacity, selectivity, superficial use, volumetric use, transport capacity, transport capacity use.
logistics: Three basic situations are traditionally considered: shared storage, dedicated storage (rack space reserved for specific merchandise) and class-based storage (class meaning merchandise organized in different areas according to their access index).
logistics: Production logistics can operate in existing as well as new plants.
logistics: Transportation from producer to the second level is called primary transportation, from the second level to a consumer is called secondary transportation.
logistics: Professional logisticians are often certified by professional associations.
logistics: Merchandise being transported internationally is usually subject to the Incoterms standards issued by the International Chamber of Commerce.
logistics: Compared to traditional logistics, e-logistics handles parcels valued at less than a hundred US dollars and delivers them to customers scattered across various destinations worldwide.
logistics: The institute also has overseas branches, namely the Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport Australia (CILTA) in Australia, and the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport in Hong Kong (CILTHK) in Hong Kong.
logistics: Minimizing resource use is a common motivation in all logistics fields.
logistics: Furthermore, the term "supply chain management" originally referred to, among other issues, having an integrated vision of both production and logistics from the point of origin to the point of production.
logistics: In addition, the term production logistics describes logistic processes within a value-adding system (e.g., a factory or a mine).
logistics: Some sources give this instead as the source of logistics, either ignorant of Jomini's statement that it was derived from logis, or dubious and instead believing it was in fact of Greek origin, or influenced by the existing term of Greek origin.
logistics: Sometimes information in a bar code can be transmitted through radio frequency, more typically radio transmission is used in RFID tags.
logistics: Picking can be both manual or automated.
logistics: Distribution logistics has, as its main task, the delivery of the finished products to the customer.
logistics: Logistics management is a component that holds the supply chain together.
logistics: Logistics automation is the application of computer software or automated machinery to improve the efficiency of logistics operations.
logistics: For example, if a company with its own warehousing facilities decides to employ external transportation, this would be an example of third-party logistics.
logistics: As service is further improved, more sales are captured from competing providers.
logistics: Track and trace solutions, which provide visibility of products through the production line, are an important part of modern production logistics, especially in the automotive and medical industries.
logistics: There are five basic modes of transport, namely, ship, rail, truck, air, and pipeline operated by different carriers.
logistics: Factories where products are manufactured or assembled
A depot or deposit, a standard type of warehouse for storing merchandise (high level of inventory)
Distribution centers for order processing and order fulfillment (lower level of inventory) and also for receiving returning items from clients.
logistics: Supply chain management in military logistics often deals with a number of variables in predicting cost, deterioration, consumption, and future demand.
logistics: As equipment ages, more and more repair parts are needed over time, even when usage and quantity stay consistent.
logistics: Consolidating small shipments into large shipments can help to save transportation costs.
logistics: Traditionally, order processing was a time-consuming activity, but with new technologies such as bar code scanning and computers, the availability of stocks can be checked in real time.
logistics: Operators involved in transportation include: all train, road vehicles, boats, airplanes companies, couriers, freight forwarders and multi-modal transport operators.
logistics: Procurement logistics, which consists of market research, requirements planning, make-or-buy decisions, supplier management, ordering, and order control.
logistics: The nodes of a distribution network include:
logistics: They usually do not ship inventory directly to customers, whereas fulfillment centers do.
logistics: Industrial machinery can typically identify products through either barcode or RFID technologies.
logistics: The main functions of a qualified logistician include inventory management, purchasing, transportation, warehousing, consultation, and the organizing and planning of these activities.
logistics: Unit loads are combinations of individual items which are moved by handling systems, usually employing a pallet of normed dimensions.
logistics: Air is the most expensive type of transport, followed by truck, rail, pipeline, and ship.
logistics: Some important constraints have to be satisfied: fork and load beams resistance to bending and proper placement of sprinklers.
logistics: Other metrics may present themselves in both physical or monetary form, such as the standard inventory turnover.
logistics: However, maintaining an inventory requires capital investment and maintaining a warehouse.
logistics: The first may be referred to as facility location (with the special case of site selection) while the latter to as capacity allocation.
logistics: This typically includes know-how and information and, in turn, innovation.
logistics: Outbound logistics is the process related to the storage and movement of the final product.
logistics: The concern is with production, testing, transportation, storage, and supply.
logistics: The term appears in the 1830 edition, then titled Analytic Table (Tableau Analytique), and Jomini explains that it is derived from French: logis, lit.
logistics: … he appears to derive it from the word lodgings [logis], a peculiar etymology …
Chambray also notes that the term logistique was present in the Dictionnaire de l'Académie française as a synonym for algebra.
logistics: Facility consolidation uses the economics of scale by transporting small shipments over short distances and large shipments over long distances.
logistics: These shipping methods can be combined in various ways such as intermodal transport (no handling), multimodal transport, and combined transport (minimal road transport).
logistics: As such, logistics is commonly seen as a branch of engineering that creates "people systems" rather than "machine systems".
logistics: Temporal consolidation adjusts the shipping schedules forwards or backward so as to make a single large shipment rather than several small shipments over time.
logistics: Business logistics incorporates all industry sectors and aims to manage the fruition of project life cycles, supply chains, and resultant efficiencies.
logistics: Hence, career perspectives are broad as well.
logistics: However, the New Oxford American Dictionary defines logistics as "the detailed coordination of a complex operation involving many people, facilities, or supplies", and the Oxford Dictionary on-line defines it as "the detailed organization and implementation of a complex operation".
logistics: Civil logistics deals with acquiring, moving, and storing raw materials, semi-finished goods, and finished goods.
logistics: The term logistics is attested in English from 1846.
logistics: Generally, there are three types of intermediaries, namely: agent/broker, wholesaler, and retailer.
logistics: Traditionally in logistics, configuration may be at the level of the warehouse (node) or at level of the distribution system (network).
logistics: Typically, distribution centers are way stations for products to be disbursed further down the supply chain.
logistics: For instance, peacetime consumption of ammunition and fuel will be considerably lower than wartime consumption of these items, whereas other classes of supply such as subsistence and clothing have a relatively consistent consumption rate regardless of war or peace.
logistics: the art of well-ordering the functionings of an army, of well combining the order of troops in columns, the times of their departure, their itinerary, the means of communication necessary to assure their arrival at the right time ...
logistics: There are three methods to do this: facility consolidation, multi-stop consolidation, and temporal consolidation.
logistics: Military logistics is concerned with maintaining army supply lines with food, armaments, ammunition, and spare parts, apart from the transportation of troops themselves.
logistics: The following metrics may be used by the company to organize its products in different families:
logistics: Dedicated simulation software can model, analyse, visualise, and optimize logistic complexities.
logistics: Logistics deals with the movement of materials or products from one facility to another; it does not include material flow within production or assembly plants, such as production planning or single-machine scheduling.
logistics: It is particularly concerned with container logistics and the role of the seaport authority in the maritime logistics chain.
logistics: A WCS can prevent that problem by working in real-time and adapting to the situation by making a last-minute decision based on current activity and operational status.
logistics: In military science, maintaining one's supply lines while disrupting those of the enemy is a crucial element of military strategy, since an armed force without resources and transportation is defenseless.
logistics: Logisticians combine professional knowledge of each of these functions to coordinate resources in an organization.
logistics: Logistics is an emerging business area in many countries.
logistics: That being said, from a modeling perspective, there are similarities between operations management and logistics, and companies sometimes use hybrid professionals, with for example a "Director of Operations" or a "Logistics Officer" working on similar problems.
logistics: For example, consumer goods such as cosmetics and handicrafts may not require any intermediaries as they can be sold door-to-door or can be obtained from local flea markets.
logistics: Working synergistically, WMS and WCS can resolve these issues and maximize efficiency for companies that rely on the effective operation of their warehouse or distribution center.
logistics: Logistique: Ce mot me paraît être tout-à-fait nouveau, car je ne l'avais encore vu nulle part dans la littérature militaire.
logistics: Now, construction logistics is an important part of the sector.
logistics: Some classes of supply have a linear demand relationship: as more troops are added, more supply items are needed; or as more equipment is used, more fuel and ammunition are consumed.
logistics: Picking logic: order picking vs batch picking
At the level of the distribution network, tactical decisions involve mainly inventory control and delivery path optimization.
logistics: It is from the French logistique, which was either coined or popularized by a Swiss military officer and writer, Antoine-Henri Jomini, who defined it in his Summary of the Art of War (Précis de l'Art de la Guerre).
logistics: The term and its etymology were criticized in 1832 by Georges de Chambray:
logistics: Cargo can be organized in different shipment categories.
logistics: The reverse logistics process includes the management and the sale of surpluses, as well as products being returned to vendors from buyers.
logistics: Especially for very long distances, product transportation will likely benefit from using different transportation means:  When moving cargo, typical constraints are maximum weight and volume.
logistics: In the UK, logistics management programs are conducted by many universities and professional bodies such as CILT.
logistics: The Seven R's is a popular concept used to enforce best practices in logistics management which consists of the following:
logistics: These systems, which are a key component of an intelligent transportation system, analyze factors like traffic, delivery windows, and vehicle capacity to create optimized routes that reduce fuel consumption and improve on-time performance.
logistics: The association supports logisticians worldwide by providing a community of practice, where members can network, exchange ideas, and improve their professional skills.
logistics: stacker cranes).
logistics: For a man to goods situation, a distinction is carried out between high-level picking (vertical component significant) and low-level picking (vertical component insignificant).
logistics: In e-logistics, customer demand tends to come in waves, unlike in traditional logistics, where demand is more consistent.
logistics: Disposal logistics has the function of reducing logistics cost(s) and enhancing service(s) related to the disposal of waste produced during a business's operation.
logistics: It is non-profit and supported by Kühne-Foundation of the logistics entrepreneur Klaus Michael Kühne.
logistics: In particular, the following museums are fully dedicated to logistics:
logistics: The United States Armed Forces' categorical supply classification was developed in such a way that categories of supply with similar consumption variables are grouped together for planning purposes.
logistics: RFID may be found on merchandise, animals, vehicles, and people as well.
logistics: Information in traditional bar codes is stored as a sequence of black and white bars varying in width, which when read by laser is translated into a digital sequence, which according to fixed rules can be converted into a decimal number or other data.
logistics: Advance logistics involves the activities required to set up or establish a supply base in advance of other resources arriving.
logistics: Given the services performed by logisticians, the main fields of logistics can be broken down as follows:
logistics: This can be supported by fleet digitalization initiatives aimed at optimizing routes and reducing fuel consumption.
logistics: There are two fundamentally different forms of logistics: one optimizes a steady flow of material through a network of transport links and storage nodes, while the other coordinates a sequence of resources to carry out some project, such as restructuring a warehouse.
logistics: These programs are generally offered at the postgraduate level.
logistics: The International Association of Public Health Logisticians (IAPHL) is a professional network that promotes the professional development of supply chain managers and others working in the field of public health logistics and commodity security, with particular focus on developing countries.
logistics: operator using a cart or conveyor belt, or goods-to-man, i.e.
logistics: For example, a WMS can tell the system that it is going to need five of stock-keeping unit (SKU) A and five of SKU B hours in advance, but by the time it acts, other considerations may have come into play or there could be a logjam on a conveyor.
logistics: A journey planner or route optimization software is often used to solve the complex logistical problem of determining the most efficient delivery paths for a fleet of vehicles.
logistics: One definition of business logistics speaks of "having the right item in the right quantity at the right time at the right place for the right price in the right condition to the right customer".
logistics: Multi-stop consolidation makes multiple stops to consolidate small shipments in the case of less-than-truckload shipping.
logistics: Whereas a third-party logistics (3PL) service provider targets a single function, a 4PL targets management of the entire process.
logistics: The Global Institute of Logistics, established in New York in 2003, is a think tank for the profession and is primarily concerned with intercontinental maritime logistics.
logistics: As the service improves, the number of sales also increased.
logistics: Monetary metrics used include space holding costs, such as building, shelving, and services, and handling costs, such as people, handling machinery, energy, and maintenance.
logistics: The Oxford English Dictionary defines logistics as "the branch of military science relating to procuring, maintaining and transporting material, personnel and facilities".
logistics: Further increase in customer service levels after these only increases sales marginally.
logistics: One can either work in a pure logistics company, such as a shipping line, airport, or freight forwarder, or within the logistics department of a company.
logistics: Handling systems include: trans-pallet handlers, counterweight handler, retractable mast handler, bilateral handlers, trilateral handlers, AGV and other handlers.
logistics: On the other hand, partners can "access intangible resources, which are not directly exploitable".
logistics: The term construction logistics has also been employed by civilizations for thousands of years.
logistics: For organisations that provide garbage collection, mail deliveries, public utilities, and after-sales services, logistical problems must be addressed.
logistics: Actually a number of methodologies have been directly borrowed from operations management such as using economic order quantity models for managing inventory in the nodes of the network.
logistics: In a horizontal alliance, these partners can benefit twofold.
logistics: The term business logistics has evolved since the 1960s due to the increasing complexity of supplying businesses with materials and shipping out products in an increasingly globalized supply chain, leading to a call for professionals called supply chain logisticians.
logistics: Freight transportation is a central part of logistics and allows access to broad markets.
logistics: In military logistics, Logistics Officers manage how and when to move resources to the places they are needed.
logistics: Autrefois les officiers de l’état-major se nommaient: maréchal des logis, major-général des logis; de là est venu le terme de logistique, qu’on emploie pour désigner ce qui se rapporte aux marches d’une armée.
logistics: Once a logistic system is configured, management, meaning tactical decisions, takes place, once again, at the level of the warehouse and of the distribution network.
logistics: An RFID tag is a card containing a memory chip and an antenna that transmits signals to a reader.
logistics: The lack thereof can lead to a clunky, slow, and ill-equipped force with too much or too little supply.
logistics: 'marshall of lodgings' and French: major-général des logis, lit.
logistics: Production logistics aims to ensure that each machine and workstation receives the right product in the correct quantity and quality at the right time.
logistics: Production logistics provides the means to achieve customer response and capital efficiency.
logistics: The problem of outsourcing typically arises at this level: the nodes of a supply chain are very rarely owned by a single enterprise.
logistics: The resources managed in logistics include physical goods such as materials, equipment, and foodstuffs, and also intangible items such as time and information.
logistics: The number of intermediaries required for the distribution network depends upon the types of goods being distributed.
logistics: the operator benefiting from the presence of a mini-load ASRS, vertical or horizontal carousel or from an Automatic Vertical Storage System (AVSS).
logistics: A WMS plans a weekly activity forecast based on such factors as statistics and trends, whereas a WCS acts like a floor supervisor, working in real-time to get the job done by the most effective means.
logistics: At the warehouse level, the logistician must decide how to distribute merchandise over the racks.
logistics: Outsourcing does not have to be complete externalization to an LSP, but can also be partial:
logistics: In business, logistics may have either an internal focus (inbound logistics) or an external focus (outbound logistics), covering the flow and storage of materials from point of origin to point of consumption, a key factor in supply-chain management.
logistics: Intermediaries would markup the costs of the products during distribution, but benefit users by providing lower transportation costs than the manufacturers.
logistics: Reverse logistics denotes all operations related to the reuse of products and materials.
logistics: Picking efficiency varies greatly depending on the situation.
logistics: 'lodgings' (cognate to English lodge), in the terms French: maréchal des logis, lit.
logistics: Some have described a 4PL as a general contractor that manages other 3PLs, truckers, forwarders, custom house agents, and others, essentially taking responsibility of a complete process for the customer.
logistics: The French word: logistique is a homonym of the existing mathematical term, from Ancient Greek: λογῐστῐκός, romanized: logistikós, a traditional division of Greek mathematics; the mathematical term is presumably the origin of the term logistic in logistic growth and related terms.
logistics: The Chartered Institute is one of the professional bodies or institutions for the logistics and transport sectors that offer professional qualifications or degrees in logistics management.
logistics: History has shown that good logistical planning creates a lean and efficient fighting force.
logistics: Logistics accounts for a significant amount of the operational costs of an organisation or country.
logistics: Automatic picking is done either with dispensers or depalletizing robots.
logistics: Transportation policies and warehouse management are closely intertwined.
logistics: Logistical activities can be divided into three main areas: order processing, inventory management, and freight transportation.
logistics: These include museums of transportation, customs, packing, and industry-based logistics.
logistics: However, as mentioned above, logistics is a broad field, encompassing procurement, production, distribution, and disposal activities.
logistics: The targets in procurement logistics might be contradictory: maximizing efficiency by concentrating on core competencies, outsourcing while maintaining the company's autonomy, or minimizing procurement costs while maximizing security within the supply process.
logistics: A shipper chooses a carrier by taking into account the total cost of shipment and transit time.
logistics: A number of tactical decisions regarding picking must be made:
logistics: This typically refers to operations within a warehouse or distribution center with broader tasks undertaken by supply chain engineering systems and enterprise resource planning systems.
logistics: Distribution networks can be characterized by numbers of levels, namely the number of intermediary nodes between supplier and consumer:
logistics: The rise of e-commerce has led to the development of "e-logistics".
logistics: Unit loads are usually assembled into higher standardized units such as: ISO containers, swap bodies or semi-trailers.
logistics: 'major-general of lodging':
