macos: For the Mac transition to Intel processors, it was modified so that developers could build their applications as a universal binary, which provides compatibility with both the Intel-based and PowerPC-based Macintosh lines.
macos: Quartz's internal imaging model correlates well with the Portable Document Format (PDF) imaging model, making it easy to output PDF to multiple devices.
macos: Numerous other developers also offer software for macOS.
macos: The system was included with Mac OS X versions up to version 10.6.8.
macos: In early 2011, Mac OS X experienced a large increase in malware attacks, and malware such as Mac Defender, MacProtector, and MacGuard was seen as an increasing problem for Mac users.
macos: It was the final version of Mac OS X to support the PowerPC architecture.
macos: Mojave also changed the system software update mechanism from the App Store (where it had been since OS X Mountain Lion) to a new panel in System Preferences.
macos: At first, the malware installer required the user to enter the administrative password, but later versions installed without user input.
macos: During its Platforms State of the Union event on June 9, 2025, Apple announced that Tahoe would be the final version of macOS to operate on Intel-based Macs.
macos: macOS 10.15 Catalina was released on October 7, 2019.
macos: Updates included enhanced voice control, and bundled apps for music, video, and podcasts that together replace the functions of iTunes, and the ability to use an iPad as an external monitor.
macos: Maps gained the feature for multiple-stop routes, Metal 3 was added with support for spatial and temporal image upscaling, Lockdown Mode was added to reduce the risk of a cyberattack, and the ability to play ambient background sounds was added as an accessibility feature in System Settings.
macos: macOS Big Sur was announced during the WWDC keynote speech on June 22, 2020, and it was made available to the general public on November 12, 2020.
macos: The heritage of what would become macOS originated at NeXT, a company founded by Steve Jobs following his departure from Apple in 1985.
macos: In 2007, Mac OS X Leopard released with universal binary components, allowing installation on both Intel Macs and select PowerPC Macs.
macos: Apple has brought several applications and features that originally debuted in iOS, its mobile operating system, to macOS, notably the intelligent personal assistant Siri, which was introduced in version 10.12 of macOS.
macos: Application pop-ups are now concentrated on the corner of the screen, and the Center itself is pulled from the right side of the screen.
macos: The first release of macOS to support ARM was macOS Big Sur.
macos: During its history, macOS has supported three major processor architectures: the initial version supported PowerPC-based Macs only, with support for Intel-based Macs beginning with OS X Tiger 10.4.4 and support for ARM-based Apple silicon Macs beginning with macOS Big Sur.
macos: The operating system then managed conflicting edits and data consistency.
macos: Input methods for typing in dozens of scripts can be chosen independently of the system language.
macos: For example, pre-emptive multitasking and memory protection improved the system's ability to run multiple applications simultaneously without them interrupting or corrupting each other.
macos: It was succeeded by macOS Catalina (10.15) in 2019, which replaces iTunes with separate apps for different types of media, and introduces the Catalyst system for porting iOS apps.
macos: It allows for dynamic previews of files, including videos and multi-page documents without opening any other applications.
macos: Because macOS is POSIX compliant, many software packages written for the other Unix-like systems including Linux can be recompiled to run on it, including many scientific and technical programs.
macos: Snow Leopard only supported machines with Intel CPUs, required at least 1 GB of RAM, and dropped default support for applications built for the PowerPC architecture (Rosetta could be installed as an additional component to retain support for PowerPC-only applications).
macos: On most windows, the start of the title bar has three buttons resembling a horizontal traffic light, which respectively close, minimize, and resize the window.
macos: macOS Tahoe also introduced a new user interface design, called Liquid Glass, which was also used on all of Apple's other platforms, unifying their design language.
macos: It also steadily cut the cost of updates from Snow Leopard onwards, before removing upgrade fees altogether in OS X Mavericks.
macos: The Dock is placed along the bottom of the screen by default, and contains icons for pinned and active applications, file and folder shortcuts, minimized windows, and the Trash (or Bin).
macos: He criticized the case insensitivity of file names, a design made worse when Apple extended the file system to support Unicode.
macos: Similar to Mac OS X 10.6 Snow Leopard, Apple described this release as emphasizing "refinements to the Mac experience" and "improvements to system performance".
macos: Apple has continued to change aspects of the macOS appearance and design, particularly with tweaks to the appearance of windows and the menu bar.
macos: On January 7, 2002, Apple announced that Mac OS X was to be the default operating system for all Macintosh products by the end of that month.
macos: To some extent, Apple has used the successful transition to this design as leverage, at various times threatening legal action against people who make or distribute software with an interface the company says is derived from its copyrighted design.
macos: In its earlier years, Mac OS X enjoyed a near-absence of the types of malware and spyware that have affected Microsoft Windows users.
macos: Third party emulation software such as Mini vMac, Basilisk II and SheepShaver provided support for some early versions of Mac OS.
macos: The use of soft edges, translucent colors, and pinstripes, similar to the hardware design of the first iMacs, brought more texture and color to the user interface when compared to what Mac OS 9 and Mac OS X Server 1.0's Platinum appearance had offered.
macos: macOS Sequoia was announced during the WWDC keynote speech on June 10, 2024.
macos: Changes made to the GUI include auto-hiding scrollbars that only appear when they are used, and Mission Control which unifies Exposé, Spaces, Dashboard, and full-screen applications within a single interface.
macos: The major change under the hood is the switch to the Apple File System, optimized for the solid-state storage used in most new Mac computers.
macos: OS X 10.8 Mountain Lion was released on July 25, 2012.
macos: With macOS Catalina in 2019, the application layer was made available to third-party developers as Mac Catalyst.
macos: It will be released in late 2026.
macos: It brought developments made in Apple's iOS, such as an easily navigable display of installed applications called Launchpad and a greater use of multi-touch gestures, to the Mac.
macos: In macOS 10.14 Mojave, the updating function was moved again to the Software Update settings pane.
macos: Apple has developed support for emoji characters by including the proprietary Apple Color Emoji font.
macos: Apple added Exposé in version 10.3 (called Mission Control since version 10.7), a feature which includes three functions to help accessibility between windows and desktop.
macos: Since its release, several OS X or macOS releases (namely OS X Mountain Lion, OS X El Capitan, macOS High Sierra, and macOS Monterey) follow this pattern, with a name derived from its predecessor, similar to the 'tick–tock model' used by Intel.
macos: On September 13, 2000, Apple released a US$29.95 "preview" version of Mac OS X, internally codenamed Kodiak, to gain feedback from users.
macos: macOS Golden Gate was announced at WWDC on June 8, 2026.
macos: Since 2014, Apple has promoted its new programming language Swift as the preferred language for software development on Apple platforms.
macos: Following the release of Lion the previous year, it was the first of the annual rather than two-yearly updates to OS X (and later macOS), which also closely aligned with the annual iOS operating system updates.
macos: Its graphical user interface was built on top of an object-oriented GUI toolkit using the Objective-C programming language.
macos: It also includes support for storing iWork documents in iCloud.
macos: The next version, OS X Yosemite (10.10), adopted a design similar to iOS 7 but with greater complexity suitable for an interface controlled with a mouse.
macos: Golden Gate also improves Liquid Glass on windows and sidebars, and allows users to adjust the system opacity.
macos: OS X 10.7 Lion was released on July 20, 2011.
macos: Mac OS applications could be rewritten to run natively via the Carbon API, with many alternatively able to be run directly through the Classic Environment albeit with a reduction in performance.
macos: The initial version was slow, incomplete, and had very few applications available at launch, mostly from independent developers.
macos: Spotlight, a file searching technology which has been integrated into the Finder since version 10.4, allows rapid real-time searches of data files; mail messages; photos; and other information based on item properties (metadata) or content.
macos: Only the latest major release of macOS (macOS Tahoe as of June 2026) receives patches for all known security vulnerabilities.
macos: As of April 2026, within the market of desktop and laptop computers, it is the second most widely used desktop OS, after Microsoft Windows and ahead of all Linux distributions, including ChromeOS and SteamOS.
macos: He argues that macOS typically handles permissions properly without user interference, and resetting permissions should only be tried when problems emerge.
macos: As of OS X 10.10.3, Photos replaced iPhoto and Aperture.
macos: Rosetta continued to be offered as an optional download or installation choice in Snow Leopard before it was discontinued with Mac OS X 10.7 Lion.
macos: Except for features requiring specific hardware such as graphics acceleration or DVD writing, the operating system offers the same functionality on all supported hardware.
macos: The human interface guidelines published by Apple for macOS are followed by many applications, giving them consistent user interface and keyboard shortcuts.
macos: macOS supports additional hardware-based security features on Apple silicon Macs:
macos: The preexisting ColorSync technology was improved and built into the core drawing engine, to provide color matching for printing and multimedia professionals.
macos: It incorporates some features seen in iOS 5, which include Game Center, support for iMessage in the new Messages messaging application, and Reminders as a to-do list app separate from iCal (which is renamed as Calendar, like the iOS app).
macos: Prior to its release, version 10.0 was code named internally at Apple as "Cheetah", and Mac OS X 10.1 was code named internally as "Puma".
macos: This violates Apple's EULA (and is therefore unsupported by Apple technical support, warranties etc.), but communities that cater to personal users, who do not install for resale and profit, have generally been ignored by Apple.
macos: It later began selling third-party applications through the Mac App Store.
macos: In 2016, with the release of macOS Sierra (10.12), the name was changed from OS X to macOS with the purpose of aligning it with the branding of Apple's other primary operating systems: iOS, watchOS, and tvOS.
macos: The 10.6.6 update also introduced support for the Mac App Store, Apple's digital distribution platform for macOS applications.
macos: On June 6, 2005, Steve Jobs announced in his keynote address at WWDC that Apple would be making the transition from PowerPC to Intel processors over the following two years, and that Mac OS X would support both platforms during the transition.
macos: As a side result, PDF viewing and creating PDF documents from any application are built-in features.
macos: In 2012, with the release of OS X Mountain Lion, the name of the system was officially shortened from Mac OS X to OS X, after the previous version shortened the system name in a similar fashion a year prior.
macos: Applications without any code signature cannot be run by default except from a computer's administrator account.
macos: The first desktop version, Mac OS X 10.0, was released on March 24, 2001.
macos: Some are included with macOS and some sold separately.
macos: The acquisition also led to Steve Jobs returning to Apple as interim and later permanent CEO, shepherding the transformation of the programmer-friendly OPENSTEP into a system that would be adopted by Apple's primary market of home users and creative professionals.
macos: While many critics suggested that the operating system was not ready for mainstream adoption, they recognized the importance of its initial launch as a base on which to improve.
macos: It came with the redesigned System Preferences (named System Settings) to a more iOS-like design, and the new Freeform, Weather and Clock apps that run natively on Mac.
macos: In 2025, starting with macOS Tahoe (version 26), macOS's version number will be based on the year following its release, as will the version numbers of iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, tvOS, and visionOS, making the version numbers the same for all of the Apple operating systems.
macos: As with Panther, certain older machines were no longer supported; Tiger requires a Mac with 256 MB of RAM and a built-in FireWire port.
macos: Mac OS X v10.3 Panther was released on October 24, 2003.
macos: Xcode provides interfaces to compilers that support several programming languages including C, C++, Objective-C, and Swift.
macos: Prior to macOS High Sierra, and on drives other than solid state drives (SSDs), the default file system is HFS+, which it inherited from the classic Mac OS.
macos: On January 10, 2006, Apple released the first Intel-based Macs along with the 10.4.4 update to Tiger.
macos: Apple shortened the name to "OS X" in 2011 and then changed it to "macOS" in 2016 to align with the branding of Apple's other operating systems.
macos: Apple released 10.1 as a free upgrade CD for 10.0 users, in addition to the $129 boxed version for people running Mac OS 9.
macos: First and third-party applications can be controlled programmatically using the AppleScript framework, retained from the classic Mac OS, or using the newer Automator application that offers pre-written tasks that do not require programming knowledge.
macos: It brings Arm support, new icons, and aesthetic user interface changes to the system.
macos: In 2026, Apple announced macOS Golden Gate (version 27) at WWDC 2026.
macos: As most Mac hardware components, or components similar to those, since the Intel transition are available for purchase, some technology-capable groups have developed software to install macOS on non-Apple computers.
macos: Moreover, some PowerPC software, such as kernel extensions and System Preferences plugins, are not supported on Intel Macs at all.
macos: Intel-based Macs would run a new recompiled version of OS X along with Rosetta, a binary translation layer which enables software compiled for PowerPC Mac OS X to run on Intel Mac OS X machines.
macos: The Spotlight Search bar and all app icons were made even more rounded, smoother animations were implemented for notifications and the lock screen, and new slow-motion screensavers of different locations worldwide were added.
macos: Apple says most people are never impacted by these attacks.
macos: This heritage is highly visible for Cocoa developers, since the "NS" prefix is ubiquitous in the framework, standing variously for NeXTSTEP or NeXT/Sun.
macos: Cocoa was a descendant of APIs inherited from OPENSTEP with no ancestry from the classic Mac OS, while Carbon was an adaptation of classic Mac OS APIs, allowing Mac software to be minimally rewritten to run natively on Mac OS X.
macos: Support for the PowerPC platform was dropped following the transition.
macos: A new version of Xcode and the underlying command-line compilers supported building universal binaries that would run on either architecture.
macos: Apple releases security updates for macOS regularly, as well as signature files containing malware signatures for Xprotect, an anti-malware feature part of File Quarantine present since Mac OS X Snow Leopard.
macos: Third-party developers started producing skins for customizable applications and other operating systems which mimicked the Aqua appearance.
macos: Newer versions of Mac OS X also included modifications to the general interface, moving away from the striped gloss and transparency of the initial versions.
macos: The Cocoa API was created as the result of a 1993 collaboration between NeXT Computer and Sun Microsystems.
macos: Additionally, Intel binaries can be run on Apple silicon-based Macs using the Rosetta 2 binary translation software.
macos: The simultaneous release of two operating systems based on the same frameworks placed tension on Apple, which cited the iPhone as forcing it to delay Mac OS X Leopard.
macos: macOS has a smaller usage share compared to Windows.
macos: Increasing market share coincided with additional reports of a variety of attacks.
macos: Apple officially announced its shift to processors designed in-house on June 22, 2020, at WWDC 2020, with the transition planned to last for approximately two years.
macos: New features include the addition of Siri, optimized storage, and updates to Photos, Messages, and iTunes.
macos: Apple stated that Tiger contained more than 200 new features.
macos: macOS Mojave included ports of four first-party iOS apps including Home and News, and it was announced that the API would be available for third-party developers to use from 2019.
macos: In April 2002, eWeek announced a rumor that Apple had a version of Mac OS X code-named Marklar, which ran on Intel x86 processors.
macos: macOS can be updated using the Software Update settings pane in System Settings or the softwareupdate command line utility.
macos: A prominent part of macOS's original brand identity was the use of the Roman numeral X, pronounced "ten", as well as code naming each release after species of big cats, and later, places within California.
macos: A review described the trend in the server products as becoming "cheaper and simpler...
macos: Apple offered two main APIs to develop software natively for macOS: Cocoa and Carbon.
macos: This includes iWork, Final Cut Pro, Logic Pro, iLife, and the database application FileMaker.
macos: In 2020, macOS Big Sur was presented as version 11—a marked departure after 16 releases of macOS 10—but the naming convention continued to reference places within California.
macos: Leopard supports both PowerPC- and Intel x86-based Macintosh computers; support for the G3 processor was dropped and the G4 processor required a minimum clock rate of 867 MHz, and at least 512 MB of RAM to be installed.
macos: The update introduced a system-wide dark mode and several new apps lifted from iOS, such as Apple News.
macos: Mac OS X 10.3 was marketed as "Panther", Mac OS X 10.4 as "Tiger", Mac OS X 10.5 as "Leopard", Mac OS X 10.6 as "Snow Leopard", Mac OS X 10.7 as "Lion", OS X 10.8 as "Mountain Lion", and OS X 10.9 as "Mavericks".
macos: Stage Manager was introduced as a new way to organize all open windows in a desktop.
macos: Simply releasing Mac OS X was received by the Macintosh community as a great accomplishment, for attempts to overhaul the Mac OS had been underway since 1996, and had been delayed by countless setbacks.
macos: However, after Apple opened the iPhone to third-party developers, its commercial success drew attention to Mac OS X, with many iPhone software developers showing interest in Mac development.
macos: On March 24, 2001, Apple released Mac OS X 10.0 (internally codenamed Cheetah).
macos: Documents auto-save by default.
macos: That year, Apple removed the head of OS X development, Scott Forstall, and design was changed towards a more minimal direction.
macos: Considering music to be a key market, Apple developed the iPod music player and music software for the Mac, including iTunes and GarageBand.
macos: It was released on September 15, 2025.
macos: Worms, as well as potential vulnerabilities, were noted in 2006, which led some industry analysts and anti-virus companies to issue warnings that Apple's Mac OS X is not immune to malware.
macos: In addition, new versions of Mac OS X first- and third-party software increasingly required Intel processors, including new versions of iLife, iWork, Aperture and Logic Pro.
macos: Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger was released on April 29, 2005.
macos: PowerPC-only software is supported with Apple's official binary translation software, Rosetta, though applications eventually had to be rewritten to run properly on the newer versions released for Intel processors.
macos: It significantly improved performance and incorporated the most extensive update yet to the user interface.
macos: Lockdown Mode is an optional security feature designed to provide extreme protection for users who may be at risk of targeted cyberattacks, such as journalists, activists, and public figures.
macos: The Finder is a file browser allowing quick access to all areas of the computer, which has been modified throughout subsequent releases of macOS.
macos: Carbon was not included in the first product sold as Mac OS X: the little-used original release of Mac OS X Server 1.0, which also did not include the Aqua interface.
macos: Third-party projects such as Homebrew, Fink, MacPorts and pkgsrc provide pre-compiled or pre-formatted packages.
macos: The numbering system started with Big Sur continued in 2021 with macOS Monterey (12), 2022 with macOS Ventura (13), 2023 with macOS Sonoma (14), and 2024 with macOS Sequoia (15).
macos: Later that year Apple released Mac OS X Jaguar (version 10.2), the first version to publicly use its code name in marketing and advertisements.
macos: After a new major release of macOS, the previous two releases still receive occasional updates, but many security vulnerabilities are only patched in the latest macOS release.
macos: Leopard is an Open Brand UNIX 03 registered product on the Intel platform.
macos: Refinements include public transport built into the Maps application, GUI improvements to the Notes application, adopting San Francisco as the system font for clearer legibility, and the introduction of System Integrity Protection.
macos: Services available in every Cocoa application include spelling and grammar checkers, special characters palette, color picker, font chooser and dictionary.
macos: Later that year, on September 25, 2001, Mac OS X 10.1 (internally codenamed Puma) was released.
macos: In an analysis, Hackintosh developer Mykola Grymalyuk noted that RSR updates can only fix userland vulnerabilities, and cannot patch the macOS kernel.
macos: Leopard dropped support for the Classic Environment and all Classic applications.
macos: Apart from OS X Lion, all versions from Mac OS X Leopard onwards are UNIX 03 certified.
macos: Mac OS X 10.6 Snow Leopard was released on August 28, 2009.
macos: Ars Technica columnist John Siracusa, who reviewed every major OS X release up to 10.10, described the early releases in retrospect as "dog-slow, feature poor" and Aqua as "unbearably slow and a huge resource hog".
macos: macOS Ventura was announced during the WWDC keynote speech on June 6, 2022 and released on October 24, 2022.
macos: Jobs also confirmed rumors that Apple had versions of Mac OS X running on Intel processors for most of its developmental life.
macos: A major addition between the classic Mac OS and the first major release of Mac OS X was Aqua, a design language with water-like elements.
macos: Catalina officially dropped support for 32-bit applications.
macos: Beginning in January 2002, Apple preinstalled Mac OS X as the default operating system on all Macs.
macos: After the immense buzz surrounding Mac OS X 10.2, codenamed "Jaguar", Apple's product marketing began openly using the code names to promote the operating system.
macos: In Mountain Lion and later, this was merged into the Mac App Store application, although the underlying update mechanism remains unchanged and is fundamentally different from the download mechanism used when purchasing an App Store application.
macos: Game mode optimizes game performance by prioritizing gaming tasks and allocating more GPU and CPU capacity to the game, and by doing so is able to provide smoother frame rates for gameplay.
macos: The consumer version of Mac OS X was launched in March 2001 with Mac OS X 10.0.
macos: The previous two releases receive some security updates, but not for all vulnerabilities known to Apple.
macos: Big Sur and later versions support Universal 2 binaries, which are applications consisting of both Intel (x86-64) and Apple silicon (AArch64) binaries; when launched, only the appropriate binary is run.
macos: Rather than delivering big changes to the appearance and end user functionality like the previous releases of Mac OS X, Snow Leopard focused on "under the hood" changes, increasing the performance, efficiency, and stability of the operating system.
macos: It introduces visual intelligence, redesigns Siri, and brings Apple Intelligence features to apps such as Safari and Passwords.
macos: While Apple's previous iPod media players used a minimal operating system, the iPhone used an operating system based on Mac OS X, which would later be called iPhone OS and then iOS.
macos: The current Apple-endorsed method is the open-source XQuartz project; earlier versions could use the X11 application provided by Apple, or before that the XDarwin project.
macos: The Metal API, first introduced in iOS 8, was also included in this operating system for "all Macs since 2012".
macos: Mail introduced schedule send and undo send for emails, and Message also got the ability to undo send and edit messages.
macos: macOS Sonoma was announced during the WWDC keynote speech on June 5, 2023, and released on September 26, 2023.
macos: This included Microsoft Office up to Office 2016, and Photoshop up to CS5.
macos: Most Macs receive six or seven years of macOS updates.
macos: Until OS X 10.8 Mountain Lion, a separate Software Update application performed this functionality.
macos: The Darwin subsystem in macOS manages the file system, which includes the Unix permissions layer.
macos: OS X 10.10 Yosemite was released on October 16, 2014.
macos: Every window element, text, graphic, or widget was drawn on-screen using spatial anti-aliasing technology.
macos: Apple's new user interface design, using deep color saturation, text-only buttons and a minimal, 'flat' interface, was debuted with iOS 7 in 2013.
macos: In 2020, Apple announced macOS Big Sur (version 11) at that year's WWDC.
macos: An estimated 100,000 users were affected.
macos: The project was codenamed "Rhapsody" before being officially named Mac OS X.
macos: PowerPC binaries suffer a performance penalty when run on Intel Macs through Rosetta.
macos: As the operating system evolved, it moved away from the classic Mac OS, with applications being added and removed.
macos: While Intel Macs can run PowerPC, Intel, and universal binaries, PowerPC Macs support only universal and PowerPC builds.
macos: It brought significant performance improvements, and an updated version of Aqua's visual design.
macos: According to Apple, Metal accelerates system-level rendering by up to 50 percent, resulting in faster graphics performance for everyday apps.
macos: Each of Apple's other contemporary operating systems, including iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, tvOS, audioOS and visionOS, are derivatives of macOS.
macos: "Panther", "Tiger" and "Leopard" are registered as trademarks of Apple, but "Cheetah", "Puma" and "Jaguar" have never been registered.
macos: This operating system functioned identically on the PowerPC-based Macs and the new Intel-based machines, with the exception of the Intel release lacking support for the Classic environment.
macos: Targeting the consumer and media markets, Apple emphasized its new "digital lifestyle" applications such as the iLife suite, integrated home entertainment through the Front Row media center and the Safari web browser.
macos: It is a free upgrade to all users running Snow Leopard or later with a 64-bit Intel processor.
macos: macOS 10.14 Mojave was released on September 24, 2018.
macos: It features a redesigned user interface similar to that of iOS 7, intended to feature a more minimal, text-based 'flat' design, with use of translucency effects and intensely saturated colors.
macos: Updates have added increased support for Chinese characters and interconnections with popular social networks in China.
macos: macOS Sonoma revamped widgets—they can now be placed anywhere on the desktop.
macos: Write xor execute prevents some security vulnerabilities by making memory pages either writable or executable, but not both.
macos: From 2012 onwards, the system has shifted to an annual release schedule similar to that of Mac OS X releases prior to 10.4 Tiger.
macos: Its changes include the addition of the previously iOS-only Maps and iBooks applications, improvements to the Notification Center, enhancements to several applications, and many under-the-hood improvements.
macos: Since 2020, Apple increments the major version component in each major release, with macOS Big Sur getting version number 11.
macos: Like OS X El Capitan and OS X Mountain Lion, High Sierra is a refinement-based update having very few new features visible to the user, including updates to Safari, Photos, and Mail, among other changes.
macos: Some applications began to use a brushed metal appearance, or non-pinstriped title bar appearance in Mac OS X Tiger.
macos: Operating system designer Linus Torvalds had criticized HFS+, saying it is "probably the worst file system ever", whose design is "actively corrupting user data".
macos: Mac OS X versions were named after big cats, with the exception of Mac OS X Server 1.0 and the original public beta, from Mac OS X 10.0 until OS X 10.9 Mavericks, when Apple switched to using California locations.
macos: Drop shadows were added around windows and isolated text elements to provide a sense of depth.
macos: Reviews were variable, with many praising its sophisticated, glossy Aqua interface, but criticizing it for sluggish performance.
macos: Apple rapidly developed several new releases of Mac OS X.
macos: This release removed Rosetta, making it incompatible with PowerPC applications.
macos: Big Sur brought major changes to the user interface and was the first version to run on Apple Silicon, based on the ARM architecture.
macos: Sync Services allows applications to access a centralized extensible database for various elements of user data, including calendar and contact items.
macos: macOS 10.13 High Sierra was released to the public on September 25, 2017.
macos: Mountain Lion also includes more Chinese features including support for Baidu as an option for Safari search engine, QQ, 163.com and 126.com services for Mail, Contacts and Calendar, Youku, Tudou and Sina Weibo are integrated into share sheets.
macos: Apps installed through the Mac App Store run within a sandbox, restricting their ability to exchange information with other applications or modify the core operating system and its features.
macos: Following a similar design change in iOS 7, OS X Yosemite shifted to a flat design language, simplifying many of the Aqua elements and icons.
macos: On May 16, 2005, a US federal court in the Southern District of Florida ruled that Apple's use did not infringe on Tiger Direct's trademark.
macos: For example, NeXTSTEP was ported from the original 68k-based NeXT workstations to x86 and other architectures before NeXT was purchased by Apple, and OPENSTEP was later ported to the PowerPC architecture as part of the Rhapsody project.
macos: Initially, Apple support staff were instructed not to assist in the removal of the malware or admit the existence of the malware issue, but as the malware spread, a support document was issued.
macos: Since 2012, Apple has sold almost all of its Mac models with high-resolution Retina displays, and macOS and its APIs have extensive support for resolution-independent development on supporting high-resolution displays.
macos: FileVault is optional encryption of the user's files with the 128-bit Advanced Encryption Standard (AES-128).
macos: App updates remain in the App Store.
macos: Apple announced an OS X update to fix the problem.
macos: Plugins for Safari need to be compiled for the same platform as Safari, so when Safari is running on Intel, it requires plug-ins that have been compiled as Intel-only or universal binaries, so PowerPC-only plug-ins will not work.
macos: Reflecting its popularity with design users, macOS also has system support for a variety of professional video and image formats and includes an extensive pre-installed font library, featuring many prominent brand-name designs.
macos: The "PB", as it was known, marked the first public availability of the Aqua interface and Apple made many changes to the UI based on customer feedback.
macos: Starting with Mountain Lion, Apple software updates (including the OS) are distributed via the App Store.
macos: Quick Look has been part of the Finder since version 10.5.
macos: It will be the first version of macOS to run exclusively on Macs with Apple silicon and the last version with full Rosetta 2 functionality.
macos: In 2025, macOS Tahoe adopted the Liquid Glass design language, which was inspired in part by Aqua.
macos: In 2018, Apple introduced an application layer, codenamed Marzipan, to port iOS apps to macOS.
macos: In addition, with Lion, Apple ceased to release separate server versions of Mac OS X, selling server tools as a separate downloadable application through the Mac App Store.
macos: These rumors subsided until late in May 2005, when various media outlets, such as The Wall Street Journal and CNET, announced that Apple would unveil Marklar in the coming months.
macos: Apple initially encouraged developers to produce universal binaries with support for both PowerPC and Intel.
macos: Apple has also connected macOS with social networks such as Twitter and Facebook through the addition of share buttons for content such as pictures and text.
macos: Its functions are to instantly reveal all open windows as thumbnails for easy navigation to different tasks, display all open windows as thumbnails from the current application, and hide all windows to access the desktop.
macos: Starting in 2011 with Mac OS X Lion (10.7) and OS X Mountain Lion (10.8), Apple moved some applications to a highly skeuomorphic style of design inspired by contemporary versions of iOS while simplifying some elements by making controls such as scroll bars fade out when not in use.
macos: Apple's showcase new feature in Yosemite is Handoff, which enables users with iPhones running iOS 8.1 or later to answer phone calls, receive and send SMS messages, and complete unfinished iPhone emails on their Mac.
macos: Early versions of macOS could also run some classic Mac OS applications through the Classic Environment with performance limitations; this feature was removed from 10.5 onwards and all Macs using Intel processors.
macos: macOS Ventura added support for Rapid Security Response (RSR) updates and Lockdown Mode.
macos: This led Apple to acquire NeXT in 1997, allowing NeXTSTEP, later called OPENSTEP, to serve as the basis for Apple's next-generation operating system.
macos: Support for PowerPC-based Macs was dropped with OS X Snow Leopard, and it was announced at the 2025 Worldwide Developers Conference that macOS Tahoe will be the last to support Intel-based Macs.
macos: Snow Leopard also featured new 64-bit technology capable of supporting greater amounts of RAM, improved support for multi-core processors through Grand Central Dispatch, and advanced GPU performance with OpenCL.
macos: Mac OS X succeeded the classic Mac OS, the primary Macintosh operating system from 1984 to 2001.
macos: This mode significantly alters the functionality of the device to enhance security against sophisticated threats, particularly from spyware and state-sponsored attacks.
macos: Rumors of Apple shifting Macs from Intel to in-house ARM processors used by iOS devices began circulating as early as 2011, and ebbed and flowed throughout the 2010s.
macos: Notification Center, which makes its debut in Mountain Lion, is a desktop version similar to the one in iOS 5.0 and higher.
macos: Apple has also registered "Lynx" and "Cougar" as trademarks, though these were allowed to lapse.
macos: Rumors intensified in 2020, when numerous reports announced that the company would announce its shift to its custom processors at WWDC.
macos: Apple also made changes to applications: they resume in the same state as they were before they were closed, similar to iOS.
macos: On top of Darwin, Apple layered a number of components, including the Aqua interface and the Finder, to complete the GUI-based operating system which is macOS.
macos: Apple dropped support for Classic mode on the new Intel Macs.
macos: The graphics system OpenGL composites windows onto the screen to allow hardware-accelerated drawing.
macos: The kernel of NeXTSTEP is based upon the Mach kernel, which was originally developed at Carnegie Mellon University, with additional kernel layers and low-level user space code derived from parts of FreeBSD and other BSD operating systems.
macos: shifting its focus from large businesses to small ones."
macos: With Apple's popularity at a low, the developer of FrameMaker, Adobe Inc., declined to develop new versions of it for Mac OS X.
macos: Some journalists and third-party software developers have suggested that this decision, while allowing more rapid feature release, meant less opportunity to focus on stability, with no version of OS X recommendable for users requiring stability and performance above new features.
macos: The Happy Mac icon — which had appeared during the Mac OS startup sequence since the original Macintosh — was replaced with a gray Apple logo.
macos: Siri's appearance was changed to look more like the versions on iOS 14 and iPadOS 14.
macos: Apple provides its own software development tools, most prominently an integrated development environment called Xcode.
macos: These self-made computers allow more flexibility and customization of hardware, but at a cost of leaving the user more responsible for their own machine, such as on matter of data integrity or security.
macos: Tools such as XPostFacto and patches applied to the installation media have been developed by third parties to enable installation of newer versions of macOS on systems not officially supported by Apple.
macos: Apple's 2015 update, OS X El Capitan (10.11), was announced to focus specifically on stability and performance improvements.
macos: The initial release of the Apple TV used a modified version of Tiger with a different graphical interface and fewer applications and services.
macos: This has been cited as an advantage, by allowing users to install apps with confidence that they should not be able to damage their system, but also as a disadvantage due to blocking the Mac App Store's use for professional applications that require elevated privileges.
macos: The name was intended to signal its status as an iteration of Leopard, focusing on technical and performance improvements rather than user-facing features; indeed it was explicitly branded to developers as being a 'no new features' release.
macos: macOS Tahoe was announced on June 9, 2025, during the WWDC 2025 keynote address.
macos: Throughout the 1990s, Apple had tried to create a "next-generation" OS to succeed its classic Mac OS through the Taligent, Copland and Gershwin projects; however, all were eventually abandoned.
macos: A key development for the system was the announcement and release of the iPhone from 2007 onwards.
macos: This was the first increment in the primary version number of macOS since the release of Mac OS X Public Beta in 2000; updates to macOS Big Sur were given 11.x numbers, matching the version numbering scheme used by Apple's other operating systems.
macos: As of January 2023, macOS is the second-most widely used general-purpose desktop operating system used on the World Wide Web following Microsoft Windows, with a 15.33% usage share, according to statistics compiled by StatCounter.
macos: Support for some early G3 computers such as "beige" Power Macs and "WallStreet" PowerBooks was discontinued.
macos: macOS (previously OS X and originally Mac OS X) is a proprietary Unix operating system, derived from OPENSTEP for Mach and FreeBSD, which has been marketed and developed by Apple since 2001.
macos: In 2025, the numbering scheme was changed once again, now using the number of the year that follows the release year (e.g.
macos: It was discovered that the upgrade CDs were full install CDs that could be used with Mac OS 9 systems by removing a specific file; Apple later re-released the CDs in an actual stripped-down format that did not facilitate installation on such systems.
macos: In Mac OS X Leopard (10.5), Apple announced a unification of the interface, with a standardized gray-gradient window style.
macos: Apple and others have provided versions of the X Window System graphical interface which can allow these applications to run with an approximation of the macOS look-and-feel.
macos: Apple has released this family of software as a free and open source operating system named Darwin.
macos: Metal also delivers up to 10 times faster draw call performance for more fluid experience in games and pro apps.
macos: This caused much outcry among existing Mac developers, who threatened to abandon the platform rather than invest in a costly rewrite, and the idea was shelved.
macos: OS X 10.9 Mavericks was released on October 22, 2013.
macos: In 2009, Mac OS X Snow Leopard (10.6) was the first version of Mac OS X to be built exclusively for Intel Macs and the final release with 32-bit Intel Mac support.
macos: The idea behind Marklar was to keep Mac OS X running on an alternative platform should Apple become dissatisfied with the progress of the PowerPC platform.
macos: At macOS's core is a POSIX-compliant operating system built on top of the XNU kernel, (which incorporated large parts of FreeBSD kernel) and FreeBSD userland for the standard Unix facilities available from the command line interface.
macos: The single DVD works for all supported Macs (including 64-bit machines).
macos: Among the new features, Tiger introduced Spotlight, Dashboard, Smart Folders, updated Mail program with Smart Mailboxes, QuickTime 7, Safari 2, Automator, VoiceOver, Core Image and Core Video.
macos: As of 2026, the most recent release of macOS is macOS 26 Tahoe, the 22nd major version of macOS.
macos: 10.5 → 10.6).
macos: Computer retailer Tiger Direct sued Apple for its use of the name "Tiger".
macos: When logged in, they gradually slow down and become the desktop wallpaper.
macos: It is also the final release with PowerPC Mac support.
macos: In 2006, the first Intel Macs were released with a specialized version of Mac OS X Tiger.
macos: Many aspects of macOS's architecture are derived from OPENSTEP, which was designed to be portable, to ease the transition from one platform to another.
macos: It was called by Apple "the largest update of Mac OS X".
macos: With the increasing popularity of the internet, Apple offered additional online services, including the .Mac, MobileMe, and later, iCloud products.
macos: Its successor, macOS Mojave (10.14), was released in 2018, adding a dark mode option and a dynamic wallpaper setting.
macos: The transition was completed at WWDC 2023 with the announcement of the Apple silicon Mac Pro, ending the transition in 3 years, slightly behind schedule.
macos: Unlike versions of the classic Mac OS, Mac OS X retained the same major version number (10) for almost two decades, with major releases only incrementing the minor version number (e.g.
macos: In 2009, Apple announced at WWDC that Mac OS X 10.6 Snow Leopard would drop support for PowerPC processors and be Intel-only.
macos: It is the current operating system for Apple's line of Mac computers.
macos: A number of macOS applications continued to use Carbon for some time afterwards, especially ones with heritage dating back to the classic Mac OS and for which updates would be difficult, uneconomic or not necessary.
macos: It is the first macOS version to feature the new Liquid Glass design introduced across Apple operating systems that year.
macos: The first version of Mac OS X, Mac OS X Server 1.0, was a transitional product, featuring an interface resembling the classic Mac OS, though it was not compatible with software designed for the older system; consumer releases of Mac OS X included more backward compatibility.
macos: The official OPENSTEP API, published in September 1994, was the first to split the API between Foundation and ApplicationKit and the first to use the "NS" prefix.
macos: These are referred to as Hackintoshes, a portmanteau of the words "hack" and "Macintosh".
macos: It is also the first macOS to use Apple's new release number convention, which gives all of Apple's operating systems the same version number.
macos: OS X 10.11 El Capitan was released on September 30, 2015.
macos: macOS Sierra also adds support for the Apple File System (APFS), Apple's successor to the dated HFS+ file system.
macos: It featured increased performance and provided missing features, such as DVD playback.
macos: In 2025, Apple unified the version number across all of its products to align with the year after their WWDC announcement, so the release announced at the 2025 WWDC, macOS Tahoe, is macOS 26.
macos: Apple produces macOS applications.
macos: Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard was released on October 26, 2007.
macos: macOS High Sierra (10.13), released in 2017, included performance improvements, Metal 2 and HEVC support, and made APFS the default file system for SSD boot drives.
macos: macOS Tahoe, released in September 2025, has a version number 26).
macos: This is the first time the major version number of the operating system has been incremented since the Mac OS X Public Beta in 2000.
macos: The change in processor architecture allows Macs with ARM processors to be able to run iOS and iPadOS apps natively.
macos: Applications written with Carbon were initially able to run natively on both classic Mac OS and Mac OS X, although this ability was later dropped as Mac OS X developed.
macos: Apple limited further development of Carbon from the release of Leopard onwards and announced that Carbon applications would not run at 64-bit.
macos: New interface elements were integrated, including sheets (dialog boxes attached to specific windows) and drawers, which would slide out and provide options.
macos: Reviewers have described Apple's support for the technology as superior to that on Windows.
macos: The iPhone X, iPhone XR and iPhone XS all later followed this convention.
macos: With OS X engineers reportedly working on iOS 7, the version released in 2013, OS X Mavericks (10.9), was something of a transitional release, with some of the skeuomorphic design removed, while most of the general interface of Mavericks remained unchanged.
macos: Psystar, a business that attempted to profit from selling macOS on non-Apple certified hardware, was sued by Apple in 2008.
macos: Apple's original plan with macOS was to require all developers to rewrite their software into the Cocoa APIs.
macos: It was designed to appear lickable.
macos: Its underlying architecture came from NeXT's NeXTSTEP, as a result of Apple's acquisition of NeXT, which also brought Steve Jobs back to Apple.
macos: There, the Unix-like NeXTSTEP operating system was developed, before being launched in 1989.
macos: macOS 10.12 Sierra was released to the public on September 20, 2016.
macos: PCIe or Thunderbolt devices are prevented by IOMMUs from reading system memory that is not explicitly mapped to them, unlike Intel-based Macs.
macos: Official website 
macOS Support – official support page
macos: It was also the first BSD-based OS to receive UNIX 03 certification.
macos: The architecture of macOS incorporates a layered design:
the layered frameworks aid rapid development of applications by providing existing code for common tasks.
macos: These prevent some vulnerabilities within macOS.
macos: With its original introduction as Mac OS X, the system brought a number of new capabilities to provide a more stable and reliable platform than its predecessor, the classic Mac OS.
macos: To permit a smooth transition from Mac OS 9 to Mac OS X, the Carbon Application Programming Interface (API) was created.
macos: Rapid Security Response updates may require a reboot, but take less than a minute to install.
macos: Users can use an iPhone as a webcam for video conferencing with Continuity Camera.
macos: Apple released Mac OS X 10.1 in October 2001, delivering quality of life enhancements.
macos: On August 23, 2002, Apple followed up with Mac OS X 10.2 Jaguar, the first release to use its code name as part of the branding.
macos: Later, another Macworld editor, Dan Frakes, called the procedure of repairing permissions vastly overused.
macos: This technology, introduced in version 10.2, is called Quartz Extreme, a component of Quartz.
macos: It was the first version to require a GPU that supports Metal.
macos: Traditionally, Cocoa programs have been mostly written in Objective-C, with Java as an alternative.
macos: It brought more than 300 new features.
macos: This updating mechanism replaced the Apple Software Update utility.
macos: New features include a new look, an updated Finder, Time Machine, Spaces, Boot Camp pre-installed, full support for 64-bit applications (including graphical applications), new features in Mail and iChat, and a number of new security features.
macos: Mac OS X Public Beta expired and ceased to function in Spring 2001.
