marathon: Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) is a common condition affecting runners during the first week following a marathon.
marathon: Club chairman Roger Biggs has run more than 700 marathons or ultras.
marathon: Verlag Empirische Pädagogik, Landau 2010
Tom Derderian, Boston Marathon: History of the World's Premier Running Event, Human Kinetics, 1994, 1996
marathon: Many marathons around the world have such time limits by which all runners must have crossed the finish line.
marathon: These prostaglandins may act as inflammation factors throughout the body, but they also play a crucial role in maintenance of water retention.
marathon: The oldest annual marathon in Europe is the Košice Peace Marathon, held since 1924 in Košice, Slovakia.
marathon: Recommendations for how often to take an energy gel during the race range widely.
marathon: He trained under the coach Biranchi Das, who saw potential in him.
marathon: Most male elite marathon runners will complete weekly distances of over 160 km (100 mi).
marathon: More important for most runners is their personal finishing time and their placement within their specific gender and age group, though some runners just want to finish.
marathon: Many marathon runners also "carbo-load" (increase carbohydrate intake while holding total caloric intake constant) during the week before the marathon to allow their bodies to store more glycogen.
marathon: Between 1934 and 1950, Johnny finished in the top five 15 times, consistently running in the 2:30s and finishing in second place a record seven times at Boston.
marathon: Strategies for completing a marathon include running the whole distance and a run–walk strategy.
marathon: Following the 1908 Olympics, the first five amateur marathons in New York City were held on days that held special meanings: Thanksgiving Day, the day after Christmas, New Year's Day, Washington's Birthday, and Lincoln's Birthday.
marathon: A goal many runners aim for is to break certain time barriers.
marathon: Singh's age was also reported to be 93 by other sources.
marathon: Hottas completed his 2500th marathon on 4 December 2016.
marathon: In less than 5% of the whole population that take NSAIDS, individuals may be more negatively sensitive to renal prostaglandin synthesis inhibition.
marathon: Anyone slower than the limit will be picked up by a sweeper bus.
marathon: Women are more prone to hyponatremia than men.
marathon: In 2014, an estimated 550,600 runners completed a marathon within the United States.
marathon: Dermatological issues frequently include "jogger's nipple", "jogger's toe", and blisters.
marathon: As of 30 June 2007, Horst Preisler of Germany had successfully completed 1214 marathons plus 347 ultramarathons, a total of 1561 events at marathon distance or longer.
marathon: Sigrid Eichner, Christian Hottas and Hans-Joachim Meyer have also all completed over 1000 marathons each.
marathon: The organizers decided on a course of 26 miles from the start at Windsor Castle to the royal entrance to the White City Stadium, followed by a lap (586 yards 2 feet; 536 m) of the track, finishing in front of the Royal Box.
marathon: The aim of training for the marathon, according to many coaches, is to maximize the limited glycogen available so that the fatigue of the "wall" is not as dramatic.
marathon: The marathon is a long-distance foot race with a distance of 42.195 kilometres (c.
marathon: When the Boston Marathon opened up registration for its 2011 running, the field capacity was filled within eight hours.
marathon: The modern 42.195 km (26.219 mi) standard distance for the marathon was set by the International Amateur Athletic Federation (IAAF) in May 1921 directly from the length used at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London.
marathon: However, Switzer's entry, which was accepted through an "oversight" in the screening process, was in "flagrant violation of the rules", and she was treated as an interloper once the error was discovered.
marathon: Other goals are to attempt to run marathons on a series of consecutive weekends (Richard Worley on 159 weekends), or to run the most marathons during a particular year or the most in a lifetime.
marathon: It was said that he ran the entire distance to Athens without stopping, discarding his weapons and even clothes to lose as much weight as possible, and burst into the assembly, exclaiming "we have won!", before collapsing and dying.
marathon: Many marathons feature a wheelchair division.
marathon: The valley where it achieved this distance was named Marathon Valley, which it then explored.
marathon: Ekiden (marathon relays)
Half marathon
Ultramarathon
Other endurance races
marathon: For events governed by IAAF rules, the route must be marked so that all competitors can see the distance covered in kilometers.
marathon: In addition, soaking the lower half of the body for approximately 20 minutes in cold or ice water may force blood through the leg muscles to speed recovery.
marathon: The marathon training program itself would suppose variation between hard and easy training, with a periodization of the general plan.
marathon: After long training runs and the marathon itself, consuming carbohydrates to replace glycogen stores and protein to aid muscle recovery is commonly recommended.
marathon: Because hyponatremia is caused by excessive water retention, and not just loss of sodium, consumption of sports drinks or salty foods may not prevent hyponatremia.
marathon: Johnny Hayes' victory at the 1908 Summer Olympics also contributed to the early growth of long-distance running and marathoning in the United States.
marathon: Many trainers recommend a weekly increase in mileage of no more than 10%.
marathon: Jean Driscoll won eight times (seven consecutively) and holds the women's world record at 1:34:22.
marathon: The marathon was held in 35 °C (95 °F) weather.
marathon: In some Herodotus manuscripts, the name of the runner between Athens and Sparta is given as Philippides.
marathon: In some cases, charities organize their own marathon as a fund-raiser, gaining funds via entry fees or sponsorships.
marathon: Marathon running has become an obsession in China, with 22 marathon races in 2011 increasing to 400 in 2017.
marathon: Treatment requires rapid physical cooling of the body.
marathon: (= Landauer Schriften zur Kommunikations- und Kulturwissenschaft.
marathon: Other benchmarks are the qualifying times for major marathons.
marathon: Lucero was admitted to Brigham and Women's Hospital and died two days later.
marathon: A few weeks later, still in 2010, Morgan Cummings (also 22) became the youngest woman to complete a marathon in all 50 states and DC.
marathon: This idea was heavily supported by Pierre de Coubertin, the founder of the modern Olympics, as well as by the Greeks.
marathon: It becomes a greater risk in warm and humid weather, even for young and fit individuals.
marathon: Training programs can be found at the websites of Runner's World, Hal Higdon, Jeff Galloway, and the Boston Athletic Association, and in numerous other published sources, including the websites of specific marathons.
marathon: Currently, the longest consecutive streak of Boston Marathon finishes—45 in a row—is held by Bennett Beach, of Bethesda, Maryland.
marathon: According to one of the researchers: "Regular exercise reduces cardiovascular risk by a factor of two or three in the long run, but while we're doing vigorous exercise such as marathon running, our cardiac risk increases by seven."
marathon: More experienced marathoners may run a longer distance during the week.
marathon: Pacemaker (running)
Physiology of marathons
marathon: Marie-Louise Ledru has been credited as the first woman to complete a marathon, in 1918.
marathon: The exact length depended on the route established for each venue.
marathon: Twenty-seven people have run a marathon on each of the seven continents, and 31 people have run a marathon in each of the Canadian provinces.
marathon: Training and the races themselves can put runners under stress.
marathon: Eliud Kipchoge (Kenya) ran a time of 1:59:40.2 at the Ineos 1:59 Challenge in Vienna on 12 October 2019.
marathon: Many are categorised as overuse injuries.
marathon: Recreational runners commonly try to reach a maximum of about 32 km (20 mi) in their longest weekly run and a total of about 64 km (40 mi) a week when training for the marathon, but wide variability exists in practice and in recommendations.
marathon: 100 Marathon Club
World Peace Marathon
Notable races
marathon: Runners can store about 8 MJ or 2,000 kcal worth of glycogen in their bodies, enough for about 30 km/18–20 miles of running.
marathon: When glycogen runs low, the body must then obtain energy by burning stored fat, which does not burn as readily.
marathon: Its course runs from Hopkinton in southern Middlesex County to Boylston Street in Boston.
marathon: Many training programs last a minimum of five or six months, with a gradual increase in the distance run and finally, for recovery, a period of tapering in the one to three weeks preceding the race.
marathon: The International Olympic Committee agreed in 1907 that the distance for the 1908 London Olympic marathon would be about 25 miles or 40 kilometers.
marathon: The long run is an important element in marathon training.
marathon: Von Herodot über Bréal bis zur Gegenwart.
marathon: Today, marathons are held all around the world on a nearly weekly basis.
marathon: In 2015, 75 Chinese runners participated in the Boston Marathon and this increased to 278 in 2017.
marathon: While Gladys Burrill was 92 years and 19 days old when she completed her record-setting marathon, Harriette Thompson was 92 years and 65 days old when she completed hers.
marathon: On 30 November 2013, 69-year-old Larry Macon set a Guinness World Record for Most Marathons Run in a Year by Man by running 238 marathons.
marathon: An official IAAF marathon course is 42.195 km (42 m tolerance only in excess).
marathon: By 30 March he broke the existing record of Akinori Kusuda, from Japan, who completed 52 marathons in a row in 2009.
marathon: NSAIDS block the COX-2 enzyme pathway to prevent the production of prostaglandins.
marathon: His coach was also arrested for exploiting and cruelty to a child and was later murdered in an unrelated incident.
marathon: Worth on 24 February 2013.
marathon: However, by 1986, 14 wheelchair athletes were competing, and an official wheelchair division was added to the marathon in 2000.
marathon: The distance did not become standardized until 1921.
marathon: According to a Canadian study presented in 2010, running a marathon can temporarily result in decreased function of more than half the muscle segments in the heart's main pumping chamber, but neighboring segments are generally able to compensate.
marathon: The data is correct as of 26 April 2026.
marathon: The historic Polytechnic Marathon was discontinued in 1996.
marathon: Bryant has completed a total of 59 marathons on his prosthesis.
marathon: The Olympic men's record is 2:06:26, set at the 2024 Summer Olympics by Tamirat Tola of Ethiopia.
marathon: Typically, those in the wheelchair racing division start their races earlier than their running counterparts.
marathon: It is the world's oldest annual marathon and ranks as one of the world's most prestigious road racing events.
marathon: Over 350 individuals have completed a marathon in each state of the United States plus Washington, D.C., and some have done it as many as eight times.
marathon: This event was run with no other competitors and with the assistance of fuel and hydration on demand and in-out pacemakers.
marathon: A 2006 study of non-elite Boston Marathon participants tested runners for certain proteins that indicate heart damage or dysfunction (see Troponin) and gave them echocardiogram scans, before and after the marathon.
marathon: Lucero's cause of death was determined to be hyponatremic encephalopathy, a condition that causes swelling of the brain due to an imbalance of sodium in the blood known as exercise-associated hyponatremia (EAH).
marathon: The marathons of Berlin, Boston, Chicago, London, New York City, Tokyo and Sydney form the World Marathon Majors series, awarding $500,000 annually to the best overall male and female performers in the series.
marathon: It has become a tradition for the men's Olympic marathon to be the last event of the athletics calendar, on the final day of the Olympics.
marathon: The length of an Olympic marathon was not precisely fixed at first.
marathon: was 4 hours 32 minutes 8 seconds for men, 5 hours 6 minutes 8 seconds for women.
marathon: The New York City Marathon also requires a qualifying time for guaranteed entry, at a significantly faster pace than Boston's.
marathon: The runners with decreased left ventricle function had an average peak weekly training distance of 55.1 km (34.2 mi), while those who did not averaged 69.1 km (42.9 mi).
marathon: Glycogen burns rapidly to provide quick energy.
marathon: It was Lucero's second marathon.
marathon: The legend states that while he was taking part in the Battle of Marathon, which took place in August or September 490 BC, he witnessed a Persian vessel changing its course towards Athens as the battle was near a victorious end for the Greek army.
marathon: The Greek historian Herodotus, the main source for the Greco-Persian Wars, mentioned Philippides as the messenger who ran from Athens to Sparta asking for help, and then ran back, a distance of over 240 kilometres (150 mi) each way.
marathon: Some of these belong to the Association of International Marathons and Distance Races (AIMS) which has grown since its foundation in 1982 to embrace over 300 member events in 83 countries and territories.
marathon: Various types of mild exercise or massage have been recommended to alleviate pain secondary to DOMS.
marathon: Arlene Pieper became the first woman to officially finish a marathon in the United States when she completed the Pikes Peak Marathon in Manitou Springs, Colorado, in 1959.
marathon: This route is slightly shorter, 35 kilometres (22 mi), but includes a very steep climb over the first 5 kilometres (3.1 mi).
marathon: That men's marathon was won by Italian Stefano Baldini in 2 hours 10 minutes and 55 seconds, a record time for this route until the non-Olympics Athens Classic Marathon of 2014 when Felix Kandie lowered the course record to 2 hours 10 minutes and 37 seconds.
marathon: The immune system is reportedly suppressed for a short time.
marathon: For example, Johnny Kelley completed 58 Boston Marathons (he entered the race 61 times).
marathon: The world record for women was set by Ruth Chepng'etich of Kenya in the Chicago Marathon on 13 October 2024, in 2 hours, 9 minutes, and 56 seconds.
marathon: Maharam, medical director for the New York City Marathon, stated in 2005: "There are no reported cases of dehydration causing death in the history of world running, but there are plenty of cases of people dying of hyponatremia."
For example, Dr.
marathon: On 31 December, the 55-year-old ran her 366th and last marathon, a record for a woman (accounting for 15,445 kilometres, 22 pairs of shoes and 15 falls).
marathon: Cynthia Lucero died at the age of 28 while participating in the 2002 Boston Marathon.
marathon: The Boston Marathon, established by the inaugural US Olympic team manager, was 24.5 miles from 1897 to 1924.
marathon: The New York City Marathon banned wheelchair entrants in 1977, citing safety concerns, but then voluntarily allowed Bob Hall to compete after the state Division of Human Rights ordered the marathon to show cause.
marathon: Some runners compete to run the same marathons for the most consecutive years.
marathon: It is also often advised to maintain a consistent running program for six weeks or so before beginning a marathon training program, to allow the body to adapt to the new stresses.
marathon: The Olympic women's record is 2:22:55, set at the 2024 Summer Olympics by Sifan Hassan of The Netherlands.
marathon: For beginners wishing to merely finish a marathon, a minimum of four months of running four days a week is recommended.
marathon: Often, the men's marathon medals are awarded during the closing ceremony (including the 2004 games, 2012 games, 2016 games and 2020 games).
marathon: Hall competed in the 1975 Boston Marathon and finished in 2:58, inaugurating the introduction of wheelchair divisions into the Boston Marathon.
marathon: Runners are advised not to ingest a new food or medicine just prior to or during a race.
marathon: Although a few women, such as Stamata Revithi in 1896, had run the marathon distance, they were not included in any official results.
marathon: Some marathon organizers set aside a portion of their limited entry slots for charity organizations to sell to members in exchange for donations.
marathon: Annually, more than 800 marathons are organized worldwide.
marathon: The last long training run might be undertaken up to two weeks prior to the event.
marathon: Edwards was 49 at the time.
marathon: Despite this, the marathon races in the first few Olympic Games were about 40 kilometres (25 mi), roughly the distance from Marathon to Athens by the longer, flatter route.
marathon: It is recommended that those new to running should get a checkup from their doctor, as there are certain warning signs and risk factors that should be evaluated before undertaking any new workout program, especially marathon training.
marathon: When this happens, the runner will experience dramatic fatigue and is said to "hit the wall".
marathon: Ernst van Dyk has won the Boston Marathon wheelchair division ten times and holds the world record at 1:18:27, set in Boston in 2004.
marathon: IAAF list of marathon records in XML
marathon: The chart below from Running USA provides the estimated U.S.
marathon: The account of the run from Marathon to Athens first appeared in Plutarch's On the Glory of Athens in the first century AD, which quoted from Heraclides Ponticus's lost work, giving the runner's name as either Thersipus of Erchius or Eucles.
marathon: Carbohydrate-based "energy gels" are used by runners to avoid or reduce the effect of "hitting the wall", as they provide easy to digest energy during the run.
marathon: As it existed when the Olympics were revived in 1896, this route was approximately 40 kilometres (25 mi) long.
marathon: However, marathon routes still vary greatly in elevation, course, and surface, making exact comparisons impossible.
marathon: In many cases the marathon organizers are required to reopen the roads to the public so that traffic can return to normal.
marathon: Overconsumption is the most significant concern associated with water consumption during marathons.
marathon: The first wheelchair marathon was held in 1974 in Toledo, Ohio, won by Bob Hall at 2:54.
marathon: Later that year, races around the holiday season including the Empire City Marathon held on New Year's Day 1909 in Yonkers, New York, marked the early running craze referred to as "marathon mania".
marathon: Christian Hottas is meanwhile the first runner who ever completed 2000 marathons.
marathon: Carbohydrates that a person eats are converted by the liver and muscles into glycogen for storage.
marathon: A July 2020 study found that increasing temperatures affected faster runners' performance more than slower ones.
marathon: If anything goes wrong, first aid workers can use the weight information to tell if the patient had consumed too much water.
marathon: In 2015 the Mars rover Opportunity attained the distance of a marathon from its starting location on Mars.
marathon: In the Detroit Free Press Marathon, participants cross the US/Canada border twice.
marathon: A selection race for the Olympic marathon was held on 22 March 1896 (Gregorian) that was won by Charilaos Vasilakos in 3 hours and 18 minutes.
marathon: Because Singh could not produce a birth certificate from rural 1911 Colonial India, the place of his birth, his age could not be verified and his record was not accepted by the official governing body World Masters Athletics.
marathon: Typically, the fastest times are set over relatively flat courses near sea level, during good weather conditions and with the assistance of pacesetters.
marathon: Alternatives to gels include various forms of concentrated sugars, and foods high in simple carbohydrates that can be digested easily.
marathon: The rules do not mention the use of miles.
marathon: Ironman Triathlon
Mountain marathon
Multi-day race
Ski marathon
Organizations
marathon: Greater weekly training mileages can offer greater results in terms of distance and endurance, but also carry a greater risk of training injury.
marathon: A creation of the French philologist Michel Bréal inspired by a story from Ancient Greece, the marathon was one of the original modern Olympic events in 1896 in Athens.
marathon: A few marathons cross international and geographical borders.
marathon: 26.22 mi), usually run as a road race, but the distance can be covered on trail routes.
marathon: Starting 1 February 2012 he improved on this by completing the 7 on 7 in under 120 hours or in less than five days.
marathon: They need to be consumed with a certain amount of water.
marathon: Browning's poem, his composite story, became part of late 19th-century popular culture and was accepted as a historical legend.
marathon: Many runners experiment with consuming energy supplements during training runs to determine what works best for them.
marathon: Runners are given the option to sign up to run particular races, especially when marathon entries are no longer available to the general public.
marathon: The idea of a marathon race came from Michel Bréal, who wanted the event to feature in the first modern Olympic Games in 1896 in Athens.
marathon: A fixture at Boston for more than a half century, his 1992 61st start and 58th finish in Boston is a record which still stands today.
marathon: The current world record time for men over the distance is 1 hour, 59 minutes, and 30 seconds, set in the London Marathon by Sabastian Sawe of Kenya on 26 April 2026.
marathon: The fitter the runner, the less the effect.
marathon: The Boston Marathon, the oldest marathon in the United States, requires a qualifying time for all non-professional runners.
marathon: He completed this feat despite suffering from a heart attack and undergoing a double heart bypass operation just four months before.
marathon: In 1879, Robert Browning wrote the poem Pheidippides.
marathon: Johnny Kelley ran his last full Boston Marathon at the documented age of 84 in 1992.
marathon: Full recovery is reached within three months.
marathon: Brian Mills completed his 800th marathon on 17 September 2011.
marathon: The distance is also included in the World Athletics Championships, which began in 1983.
marathon: Satirist Lucian of Samosata gave one of the earliest accounts similar to the modern version of the story, but its historical veracity is disputed based on its tongue-in-cheek writing and the runner being referred to as Philippides and not Pheidippides.
marathon: The Istanbul Marathon is the only marathon where participants run over two continents (Europe and Asia) during a single event.
marathon: In May 2006, Budhia was temporarily banned from running by the ministers of child welfare, as his life could be at risk.
marathon: On 20 March 2018, an indoor Marathon occurred in the Armory in New York City.
marathon: More than 800 marathons are held worldwide each year, with the vast majority of competitors being recreational athletes, as larger marathons can have tens of thousands of participants.
marathon: This can be compared to 143,000 in 1980.
marathon: The IAAF will only recognize world records established at events run under IAAF rules.
marathon: Lindsey Scherf (USA) set the indoor women's world record with 2:40:55.
marathon: At least 10 of these events must be United Kingdom or Ireland Road Marathons.
marathon: When the modern Olympics began in 1896, the initiators and organizers were looking for a great popularizing event, recalling the glory of ancient Greece.
marathon: With the growth in popularity of marathon-running, many marathons across the United States and the world have been filling to capacity faster than ever before.
marathon: Energy gels usually contain varying amounts of sodium and potassium and some also contain caffeine.
marathon: Consumption of food while running sometimes makes the runner sick.
marathon: Common minor health risks include blisters, tendonitis, fatigue, knee or ankle sprain, dehydration (electrolyte imbalance), and other conditions.
marathon: In 2010, Stefaan Engels, a Belgian, set out to run the marathon distance every day of the year.
marathon: He interpreted this as an attempt by the defeated Persians to rush into the city to claim a false victory or simply raid, hence claiming their authority over Greek land.
marathon: Larry Macon celebrated his 1,000th career marathon at the Cowtown Marathon in Ft.
marathon: This is accomplished in part by utilizing a higher percentage of energy from burned fat even during the early phase of the race, thus conserving glycogen.
marathon: However, this review was not an attempt to assess the overall cardiac health impact of marathon running.
marathon: Violet Piercy has been credited as the first woman to be officially timed in a marathon, in 1926.
marathon: The Midnight Sun Marathon is held in Tromsø, Norway at 70 degrees north.
marathon: Norm Frank of the United States is credited with 945 marathons.
marathon: Heat exposure leads to diminished thirst drive and thirst may not be a sufficient incentive to drink in many situations.
marathon: Singh, a British citizen, finished the race on 16 October 2011 with a time of 8:11:05.9, making him the oldest marathoner.
marathon: In 2015, the men's and women's median marathon times were 4 hours 20 minutes 13 seconds and 4 hours 45 minutes 30 seconds respectively.
marathon: He previously had won the Boston Marathon in both 1935 and 1945 respectively.
marathon: Bobbi Gibb had completed the Boston race unofficially the previous year (1966), and was later recognized by the race organizers as the women's winner for that year, as well as 1967 and 1968.
marathon: Many runners report that running becomes noticeably more difficult at that point.
marathon: The 100 Marathon Club is intended to provide a focal point for all runners, particularly from the United Kingdom or Ireland, who have completed 100 or more races of marathon distance or longer.
marathon: Drinking excessive amounts of fluid during a race can lead to dilution of sodium in the blood, a condition called exercise-associated hyponatremia, which may result in vomiting, seizures, coma and even death.
marathon: List of marathon races
List of marathoners
List of marathon national champions (men)
List of non-professional marathon runners
Related races
marathon: Using unofficial and temporary courses measured by GPS, races of marathon distance are now held at the North Pole, in Antarctica, and over desert terrain.
marathon: In 2006, the editors of Runner's World selected a "World's Top 10 Marathons", in which the Amsterdam, Honolulu, Paris, Rotterdam, and Stockholm marathons were featured along with the five original World Marathon Majors events (excluding Tokyo).
marathon: Other notable large marathons include United States Marine Corps Marathon, Los Angeles, and Rome.
marathon: The name Marathon comes from the legend of Pheidippides, the Greek messenger.
marathon: A study in the New England Journal of Medicine found that 13% of runners completing the 2002 Boston Marathon had hyponatremia.
marathon: In 2004, Chuck Bryant of Miami, Florida, who lost his right leg below the knee, became the first amputee to finish this circuit.
marathon: Ineos 1:59 Challenge
Man versus Horse Marathon
Marathons at the Paralympics
Other related topics
marathon: The youngest under 4 hours is Mary Etta Boitano at age 7 years, 284 days; under 3 hours Julie Mullin at 10 years 180 days; and under 2:50 Carrie Garritson at 11 years 116 days.
marathon: Kathrine Switzer was the first woman to run the Boston Marathon "officially" (with a number), in 1967.
marathon: While EAH is sometimes referred to as "water intoxication", Lucero drank large amounts of Gatorade during the race, demonstrating that runners who consume sodium-containing sports drinks in excess of thirst can still develop EAH.
marathon: English born Canadian Ed Whitlock is the oldest to complete a marathon in under 3 hours at age 74, and under 4 hours at age 85.
marathon: The marathon can be completed by running or with a run/walk strategy.
marathon: For example, recreational first-timers often try to run the marathon under four hours; more competitive runners may attempt to finish under three hours.
marathon: There are also wheelchair divisions.
marathon: It was the approximate distance originally used for marathon races.
marathon: Tsehay Gemechu (Ethiopia) ran a time of 2:16:56 at the Tokyo Marathon on 5 March 2023.
marathon: Gladys Burrill, a 92-year-old Prospect, Oregon woman and part-time resident of Hawaii, previously held the Guinness World Records title of oldest person to complete a marathon with her 9 hours 53 minutes performance at the 2010 Honolulu Marathon.
marathon: On 5 February 2011, Engels had run 365 marathon distances in as many days.
marathon: Because of a foot injury he had to resort to a handcycle near the end of January 2010.
marathon: Courses must conform to World Athletics standards for a record to be recognized.
marathon: She received a four-year ban in October 2024, backdated to the provisional suspension issued in November 2023, for an anti-doping rule violation indicated by abnormalities in her Athlete Biological Passport.
marathon: Changes to the blood chemistry, such as elevated Cardiac Troponin T, may lead physicians to mistakenly diagnose heart malfunction.
marathon: There is debate about the historical accuracy of this legend.
marathon: The IMMDA and HSL Harpur Hill give recommendations to drink fluid in small volumes frequently at an approximate rate falling between 100–250 ml (3.4–8.5 US fl oz) every 15 minutes.
marathon: In the Three Countries Marathon, participants run through Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
marathon: Budhia is now at a state-run sports academy.
marathon: In 2016, a systematic medical review found that the risk of sudden cardiac death during or immediately after a marathon was between 0.6 and 1.9 deaths per 100,000 participants, varying across the specific studies and the methods used, and not controlling for age or gender.
marathon: Giessen: Mythos Marathon.
marathon: This was faster than his previous assisted run of 2:00:25 at the Nike Breaking2 in Monza on 6 May 2017, which was also ineligible.
marathon: Marathon running has various health risks, though these can be diminished with preparation and care.
marathon: The Niagara Falls International Marathon includes one international border crossing, via the Peace Bridge from Buffalo, New York, United States to Fort Erie, Ontario, Canada.
marathon: Most participants do not run a marathon to win.
marathon: The Boston Marathon awards $10,000 to the winning push-rim athlete.
marathon: In 2004, "the disease had left him unable to walk.
marathon: The women's marathon was introduced at the 1984 Summer Olympics (Los Angeles, US) and was won by Joan Benoit of the United States with a time of 2 hours 24 minutes and 52 seconds.
marathon: Marathon world record progression
National records in the marathon
Lists
marathon: The 200 m track saw a world record in the women's and men's field.
marathon: A pioneer in running multiple marathons was Sy Mah of Toledo, Ohio, who ran 524 before he died in 1988.
marathon: In 2024, Belgian Hilde Dosogne ran a marathon every day of the year.
marathon: A patient suffering hyponatremia can be given a small volume of a concentrated salt solution intravenously to raise sodium concentrations in the blood.
marathon: The Athens Classic Marathon traces the route of the 1896 Olympic course, starting in Marathon on the eastern coast of Attica, site of the Battle of Marathon of 490 BC, and ending at the Panathenaic Stadium in Athens.
marathon: At mile 22, Lucero complained of feeling "dehydrated and rubber-legged." She soon wobbled and collapsed to the ground, and was unconscious by the time the paramedics reached her.
marathon: Marathon Finisher totals going back to 1976.
marathon: The marathon of the 2004 Summer Olympics was run on the traditional route from Marathon to Athens, ending at Panathinaiko Stadium, the venue for the 1896 Summer Olympics.
marathon: In 2005, the average marathon time in the U.S.
marathon: The winner of the first Olympic marathon, on 10 April 1896 (a male-only race), was Spyridon Louis, a Greek water-carrier, in 2 hours 58 minutes and 50 seconds.
marathon: Course officials add a short course prevention factor of up to one meter per kilometer to their measurements to reduce the risk of a measuring error producing a length below the minimum distance.
marathon: Ricardo Abad Martínez, from Spain, later ran 150 marathons in 150 consecutive days in 2009, and subsequently 500 marathons in a row, from October 2010 to February 2012.
marathon: Per capita, the Kalenjin ethnic group of Rift Valley Province in Kenya has produced a highly disproportionate share of marathon and track-and-field winners.
marathon: This feat has since been eclipsed by Irish ultramarathon runner Richard Donovan who in 2009 completed seven marathons on seven continents in under 132 hours (five and a half days).
marathon: Typically, there is a maximum allowed time of about six hours after which the marathon route is closed, although some larger marathons keep the course open considerably longer (eight hours or more).
marathon: From 1977, the race was declared the US National Wheelchair championship.
marathon: However, on 5 February he was fully recovered and decided to reset the counter back to zero.
marathon: Since the risk is small, cardiac screening programs for marathons are uncommon.
marathon: Some runners weigh themselves before running and write the results on their bibs.
marathon: Therefore, the attempt was not eligible for official ratification.
marathon: The records took 24 years to achieve.
marathon: It is the only running road race included in both championship competitions (walking races on roads are also contested in both).
marathon: However, there have been suggestions that Philippides might have followed another route: a westward climb along the eastern and northern slopes of Mount Penteli to the pass of Dionysos, and then a straight southward downhill path to Athens.
marathon: This broke Tigst Assefa's previous world record of 2 hours, 11 minutes, and 53 seconds by almost two minutes, and was the first time in history a woman broke the 2:11 and 2:10 barriers in the marathon.
marathon: All her results from March 2020 onwards were disqualified.
marathon: Mount Pentelicus stands between Marathon and Athens, which means that Philippides would have had to run around the mountain, either to the north or to the south.
marathon: Malcolm Richards (USA) won in 2:19:01 with a male indoor world record.
marathon: Beverly Paquin, a 22-year-old nurse from Iowa, was the youngest woman to run a marathon in all 50 states in 2010.
marathon: Frank Shorter's victory in the marathon at the 1972 Summer Olympics spurred national enthusiasm for the sport more intensely than Hayes' win had done 64 years earlier.
marathon: In 2015, 92-year-old Harriette Thompson of Charlotte, North Carolina, completed the Rock 'n' Roll San Diego Marathon in 7 hours 24 minutes 36 seconds, thus becoming the oldest woman to complete a marathon.
marathon: On 25 September 2011, Patrick Finney of Grapevine, Texas became the first person with multiple sclerosis to finish a marathon in each state of the United States.
marathon: The IMMDA also recommended sports drinks that include carbohydrates and electrolytes instead of plain water and said that runners should "drink to thirst", trying to refrain from drinking at every fluid station before feeling thirsty.
marathon: He ran his 2000th at TUI Marathon Hannover on 5 May 2013 together with a group of more than 80 friends from 11 countries, including 8 officers from the 100 Marathons Clubs U.K., North-America, Germany, Denmark, Austria and Italy.
marathon: The course was later altered to use a different entrance to the stadium, followed by a partial lap of 385 yards to the same finish.
marathon: While very rare, even death is a possibility during a race.
