marketing: retail), which geographic region or industry, to which segment (young adults, families, business people), etc.
marketing: 25 (1): 32–41.
marketing: From a model-building perspective, the 4 Ps has attracted a number of criticisms.
marketing: The area of marketing planning involves forging a plan for a firm's marketing activities.
marketing: Needs-based segmentation (also known as benefit segmentation) "places the customers' desires at the forefront of how a company designs and markets products or services".
marketing: Firms may use sales promotions to raise sales.
marketing: In contrast, an outside-in approach first seeks to understand the needs and wants of the consumer.
marketing: Some pricing tactics, such as promotional pricing, can be classified as price variables or promotional variables and, therefore, also exhibit some overlap.
marketing: These firms engage in extensive market research, use R&D (Research & Development), and then use promotion techniques.
marketing: Organizational orientation: The marketing department is of prime importance within the functional level of an organization.
marketing: 7 Ps, which are often applied in the case of services marketing.
marketing: Methods of setting prices are in the domain of pricing science.
marketing: Needs: Something necessary for people to live a healthy, stable and safe life.
marketing: This, however, not only refers to physical stores but also whether the product is available in person or online.
marketing: It has largely been supplanted by the marketing orientation, except for haute couture and arts marketing.
marketing: For instance, the Chartered Institute of Marketing defines marketing from a customer-centric perspective, focusing on "the management process responsible for identifying, anticipating and satisfying customer requirements profitably".
marketing: When needs remain unfulfilled, there is a clear adverse outcome: a dysfunction or death.
marketing: These include: economic, social, political and technological factors.
marketing: As an example, a firm may conduct research in a target market, after selecting a suitable market segment.
marketing: A common method of assessing a firm's macro-environment is via a PESTLE (Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Legal, Ecological) analysis.
marketing: Recent definitions of marketing place more emphasis on the consumer relationship, as opposed to a pure exchange process.
marketing: The finance department may oppose required capital expenditures since it could undermine a healthy cash flow for the organization.
marketing: Common examples of advertising media include: TV, Radio, Magazines, Online, Billboards, Event sponsorship, Advertising mail (direct mail), Transit ads.
marketing: The price need not be monetary; it can simply be what is exchanged for the product or services, e.g.
marketing: Cost mainly consists of the monetary value of the product.
marketing: A marketing mix is a foundational tool used to guide decision making in marketing.
marketing: Boston, Massachusetts, US: Harvard Business School Press.
marketing: Marketing objectives are typically broad-based in nature, and pertain to the general vision of the firm in the short, medium or long-term.
marketing: The macro-environment (Macromarketing), over which a firm holds little control, consists of a variety of external factors that manifest on a large (or macro) scale.
marketing: Media related to Marketing at Wikimedia Commons
 The dictionary definition of marketing at Wiktionary
 Quotations related to marketing at Wikiquote
 Marketing at Wikibooks
marketing: The marketing plan also shows what actions will be taken and what resources will be used to achieve the planned objectives.
marketing: Place (or distribution)
This refers to how the product gets to the customer; the distribution channels and intermediaries such as wholesalers and retailers who enable customers to access products or services in a convenient manner.
marketing: Information from the marketing department is used to guide the actions of a company's other departments.
marketing: Some definitions of marketing highlight marketing's ability to produce value to shareholders of the firm as well.
marketing: Communication
Like "Promotion" in the 4Ps model, communication refers to how consumers find out about a product.
marketing: It is diametrically opposed to the popular concept of B2C or business-to-consumer where the companies make goods and services available to the end consumers.
marketing: Geographic (such as a country, region, city, town)
Psychographic (e.g.
marketing: Customer concentration: Businesses that specialize in a particular market tend to be geographically concentrated while customers that buy products from these businesses are not concentrated.
marketing: intangibility, perishability, heterogeneity and the inseparability of production and consumption) warrant additional consideration factors.
marketing: Pricing
This refers to the process of setting a price for a product, including discounts.
marketing: A firm only possesses a certain amount of resources.
marketing: It is one of the primary components of business management and commerce.
marketing: The micro-environment, over which a firm holds a greater amount (though not necessarily total) control, typically includes: Customers/consumers, Employees, Suppliers and the Media.
marketing: An inside-out approach is the traditional planning approach where the organization identifies its desired goals and objectives, which are often based around what has always been done.
marketing: For instance, prolific marketing author and educator, Philip Kotler has evolved his definition of marketing.
marketing: personality traits or lifestyle traits which influence consumer behaviour)
Demographic (e.g.
marketing: Some of the trends in B2B marketing include content such as podcasts, videos, and social media marketing campaigns.
marketing: The internal environment, which includes the factors inside of the company itself.
marketing: In contrast to the macro-environment, an organization holds a greater (though not complete) degree of control over these factors.
marketing: doi:10.1177/0276146705274982.
marketing: In 1980, he defined marketing as "satisfying needs and wants through an exchange process", and in 2018 defined it as "the process by which companies engage customers, build strong customer relationships, and create customer value in order to capture value from customers in return".
marketing: It often uses tailored emotional marketing strategies towards individuals.
marketing: The term "marketing environment" relates to all of the factors (whether internal, external, direct or indirect) that affect a firm's marketing decision-making/planning.
marketing: Given the centrality of customer needs, and wants in marketing, a rich understanding of these concepts is essential:
marketing: Demand: B2B demand is derived because businesses buy products based on how much demand there is for the final consumer product.
marketing: Examples of products sold through B2B marketing include:
marketing: tech savvy, active)
Behavioral (e.g.
marketing: Viral marketing can be facilitated by social media.
marketing: This information is then used by managers to plan marketing activities, gauge the nature of a firm's marketing environment and to attain information from suppliers.
marketing: B2C demand is primarily because customers buy products based on their own wants and needs.
marketing: In B2C marketing, this does not occur because consumers are not also selling products.
marketing: The main differences in these markets are demand, purchasing volume, number of customers, customer concentration, distribution, buying nature, buying influences, negotiations, reciprocity, leasing and promotional methods.
marketing: Once these factors are determined, marketers must then decide what methods of promoting the product, including use of coupons and other price inducements.
marketing: Moreover, with more diversity in the tastes of modern consumers, firms are noting the benefit of servicing a multiplicity of new markets.
marketing: Convenience
Like "Place" in the 4Ps model, convenience refers to where the product will be sold.
marketing: Companies that adopt this perspective typically practice triple bottom line reporting and publish financial, social and environmental impact reports.
marketing: Wants: Something that is desired, wished for or aspired to.
marketing: Market research involves gathering information about a particular target market.
marketing: From a product's placing on the map, a firm would tailor its marketing communications to meld with the product's perception among consumers and its position among competitors' offering.
marketing: A marketing orientation has been defined as a "philosophy of business management", "a corporate state of mind", or an "organizational culture".
marketing: The production department would then start to manufacture the product.
marketing: Specifically, Kotler and Armstrong note that the production philosophy is "one of the oldest philosophies that guides sellers...
marketing: The scope of a product generally includes supporting elements such as warranties, guarantees, and support.
marketing: Got Milk?), food from a specific area, or a city or region as a tourism destination.
marketing: Purchasing volume: Businesses buy products in large volumes to distribute to consumers.
marketing: Unlike promotion, communication not only refers to the one-way communication of advertising, but also the two-way communication available through social media.
marketing: When the product hits maturity, its starts to level off, and an increasing number of entrants to a market produce price falls for the product.
marketing: Segmentation involves the initial splitting up of consumers into persons of like needs/wants/tastes.
marketing: The interests of "society at large" were added into the definition in 2008.
marketing: age, gender, socio-economic class, education)
Gender
Income
Life-Cycle (e.g.
marketing: Marketing and Marketing Concepts are directly related.
marketing: Businesses buy products based on customer's wants and needs.
marketing: This fourth P is focused on providing a message to get a response from consumers.
marketing: Market research is a subset of marketing research.
marketing: Demands: When needs and wants are backed by the ability to pay, they have the potential to become economic demands.
marketing: Although scholars continue to debate the precise nature of specific concepts that inform marketing practice, the most commonly cited orientations are as follows:
marketing: Church, Roy and Godley, Andrew (eds), The Emergence of Modern Marketing, London, Frank Cass, 2003 online edition Archived 18 October 2009 at the Wayback Machine
Hollander, Stanley C.; Rassuli, Kathleen M.; Jones, D.
marketing: The marketing orientation includes:
Customer orientation: A firm in the market economy can survive by producing goods that people are willing and able to buy.
marketing: Marketing science has developed a concrete process that can be followed to create a marketing plan.
marketing: The process is conducted for two main purposes: better allocation of a firm's finite resources and to better serve the more diversified tastes of contemporary consumers.
marketing: Promotion 
This includes all aspects of marketing communications: advertising, sales promotion, including promotional education, public relations, personal selling, product placement, branded entertainment, event marketing, trade shows, and exhibitions.
marketing: [and] is still useful in some situations".
marketing: Marketing plans start by identifying customer needs through market research and how the business can satisfy these needs.
marketing: brand loyalty, usage rate)
Once a segment has been identified to target, a firm must ascertain whether the segment is beneficial for them to service.
marketing: Market segmentation can be defined in terms of the STP acronym, meaning Segmentation, Targeting, and Positioning.
marketing: More entrants enter into the market, to reap the apparent high profits that the industry is producing.
marketing: Other important criticisms include that the marketing mix lacks a strategic framework and is, therefore, unfit to be a planning instrument, particularly when uncontrollable, external elements are an important aspect of the marketing environment.
marketing: Thus, it must make choices (and appreciate the related costs) in servicing specific groups of consumers.
marketing: Marketing is usually conducted by the seller, typically a retailer or manufacturer.
marketing: However, the definition of marketing has evolved over the years.
marketing: Number of customers: There are relatively fewer businesses to market to than direct consumers.
marketing: McCarthy's 4 Ps have been widely adopted by both marketing academics and practitioners.
marketing: Wants are not essential for basic survival and are often shaped by culture or peer-groups.
marketing: Customer needs are central to market segmentation which is concerned with dividing markets into distinct groups of buyers on the basis of "distinct needs, characteristics, or behaviors who might require separate products or marketing mixes".
marketing: A firm often performs this by producing a perceptual map, which denotes similar products produced in the same industry according to how consumers perceive their price and quality.
marketing: Sustainable marketing or green marketing is an extension of societal marketing.
marketing: Although needs-based segmentation is difficult to do in practice, it has been proved to be one of the most effective ways to segment a market.
marketing: In the past, marketing practice tended to be seen as a creative industry, which included advertising, distribution and selling, and even today many parts of the marketing process (e.g.
marketing: A firm's internal environment consists of: Labor, Inventory, Company Policy, Logistics, Budget, and Capital Assets.
marketing: Market orientations are philosophies concerning the factors that should go into market planning.
marketing: Product concept: mainly concerned with the quality of its product.
marketing: The price is the cost that a consumer pays for a product—monetary or not.
marketing: Products can be marketed to other businesses (B2B) or directly to consumers (B2C).
marketing: Alternative extensions have been found necessary in retail marketing, industrial marketing and internet marketing.
marketing: Journal of Consumer Research
Journal of Marketing
Journal of Marketing Research
Marketing Science
These are also designated as Premier AMA Journals by the American Marketing Association.
marketing: It dominated marketing practice from the 1860s to the 1930s, yet can still be found in some companies or industries.
marketing: However, if a product services a niche market, or is complementary to another product, it may continue the manufacture of the product, despite a low level of sales/revenue being accrued.
marketing: Distribution: B2B products pass directly from the producer of the product to the business while B2C products may additionally go through a wholesaler or retailer.
marketing: Lauterborn proposed a 4 Cs classification in 1990.
marketing: Negotiations: In B2B marketing, negotiating for lower prices or added benefits is commonly accepted while in B2C marketing (particularly in Western cultures) prices are fixed.
marketing: Baby Boomer, Generation X, Millennial, Generation Z)
Lifestyle (e.g.
marketing: A marketing plan can also pertain to a specific product, the introduction of a new product, the revision of current marketing strategies for existing products, as well as an organisation's overall marketing strategy.
marketing: The newer definition highlights the increased prominence of other stakeholders in the new conception of marketing.
marketing: With this in mind, the marketing department would inform the R&D department to create a prototype of a product/service based on consumers' new desires.
marketing: The origins of the 4 Ps can be traced to the late 1940s.
marketing: also referring to how the environment in which the product is sold in can affect sales.
marketing: The elements of DAMP are:
marketing: Three modes of differentiation exist, which are commonly applied by firms.
marketing: The 4 Ps, in its modern form, was first proposed in 1960 by E.
marketing: Needs can be objective and physical, such as the need for food, water, and shelter; or subjective and psychological, such as the need to belong to a family or social group and the need for self-esteem.
marketing: C2C companies are a new type of model that has emerged with e-commerce technology and the sharing economy.
marketing: In contrast, marketing research relates to all research conducted within marketing.
marketing: In addition, a great deal of advertising and promotion is designed to show how a given product's benefits meet the customer's needs, wants or expectations in a unique way.
marketing: (Avoiding the word consumer, which shows up in both, market research is about distribution, while marketing research encompasses distribution, advertising effectiveness, and salesforce effectiveness).
marketing: Market segmentation consists of taking the total heterogeneous market for a product and dividing it into several sub-markets or segments, each of which tends to be homogeneous in all significant aspects.
marketing: product design, art director, brand management, advertising, inbound marketing, copywriting etc.) involve the use of the creative arts.
marketing: Extensions of the four P's are often included in cases such as services marketing where unique characteristics (i.e.
marketing: Brian; Dix, Laura Farlow (June 2005).
marketing: A firm's marketing environment consists of three main areas, which are:
marketing: The PLC is based on a few key assumptions, including:
marketing: The marketing mix represents the basic tools that marketers can use to bring their products or services to the market.
marketing: Societal marketing concept: Social responsibility that goes beyond satisfying customers and providing superior value embraces societal stakeholders such as employees, customers, and local communities.
marketing: This third P has also sometimes been called Place or Placement, referring to the channel by which a product or service is sold (e.g.
marketing: Branding, a key aspect of the product management, refers to the various methods of communicating a brand identity for the product, brand, or company.
marketing: A given product would possess introduction, growth, maturity, and decline stage
No product lasts perpetually on the market
A firm must employ differing strategies, according to where a product is on the PLC
In the introduction stage, a product is launched onto the market.
marketing: Marketing research, conducted for the purpose of new product development or product improvement, is often concerned with identifying the consumer's unmet needs.
marketing: Traditionally, this could refer to individuals shopping for personal products in a broad sense.
marketing: Sometimes, a trade association or government agency (such as the Agricultural Marketing Service) advertises on behalf of an entire industry or locality, often a specific type of food (e.g.
marketing: The AMA reviews this definition and its definition for "marketing research" every three years.
marketing: LinkedIn and YouTube allow brands to start a conversation with regular and prospective customers.
marketing: During decline, demand for a good begins to taper off, and the firm may opt to discontinue the manufacture of the product.
marketing: In this type of business model, businesses profit from consumers' willingness to name their own price or contribute data or marketing to the company, while consumers benefit from flexibility, direct payment, or free or reduced-price products and services.
marketing: Tedlow, Richard S., and Jones, Geoffrey G.
marketing: More recently the term B2C refers to the online selling of consumer products.
marketing: Any company that sells products or services to other businesses or organizations (vs.
marketing: Profitable – can a sufficient return on investment be attained from a segment's servicing?
marketing: Major equipment
Accessory equipment
Raw materials
Component parts
Processed materials
Supplies
Venues
Business services
The four major categories of B2B product purchasers are:
marketing: As an example, if one pictures a group of companies (or a conglomerate), the objective might be to increase the group's sales by 25% over a ten-year period.
marketing: Certain marketing activities, such as personal selling, may be classified as either promotion or as part of the place (i.e., distribution) element.
marketing: Marketing research is a systematic process of analyzing data that involves conducting research to support marketing activities and the statistical interpretation of data into information.
marketing: The development of the definition may be seen by comparing the 2008 definition with the AMA's 1935 version: "Marketing is the performance of business activities that direct the flow of goods, and services from producers to consumers".
marketing: One of the major benefit of this type of business model is that it offers a company a competitive advantage in the market.
marketing: Social media is used to facilitate two-way communication between companies and their customers.
marketing: Promotional methods: In B2B marketing, the most common promotional method is personal selling.
marketing: The convenience aspect emphasizes making it as easy as possible for the consumer to attain the product, thus making them more likely to do so.
marketing: A marketing department could ascertain (via marketing research) that consumers desired a new type of product, or a new usage for an existing product.
marketing: For example, a business that sells printer ink is more likely to buy office chairs from a supplier that buys the business's printer ink.
marketing: The product life cycle (PLC) is a tool used by marketing managers to gauge the progress of a product, especially relating to sales or revenue accrued over time.
marketing: An organization's marketing planning process is derived from its overall business strategy.
marketing: The product element consists of product design, new product innovation, branding, packaging, and labeling.
marketing: Handbook of Marketing, 2002
marketing: Buying nature: B2B purchasing is a formal process done by professional buyers and sellers, while B2C purchasing is informal.
marketing: Cost also refers to anything else the consumer must sacrifice to attain the product, such as time or money spent on transportation to acquire the product.
marketing: Yet, the 4 Ps model has extensive overlapping problems.
marketing: The first known mention has been attributed to a Professor of Marketing at Harvard University, James Culliton.
marketing: This aspect of the model focuses on fulfilling the wants or needs of the consumer.
marketing: Marketing's task then becomes one of "selling" the organization's products and messages to the "outside" or external stakeholders.
marketing: B2C marketing mostly uses sales promotion, public relations, advertising, and social media.
marketing: The DAMP acronym is used as criteria to gauge the viability of a target market.
marketing: and Robin Wensley (eds).
marketing: However, because marketing makes extensive use of social sciences, psychology, sociology, mathematics, economics, anthropology and neuroscience, the profession is now widely recognized as a science.
marketing: They are the foundation of managerial marketing and the marketing plan typically devotes a section to the marketing mix.
marketing: During the growth stage, the product's sales/revenue is increasing, which may stimulate more marketing communications to sustain sales.
marketing: Consequently, ascertaining consumer demand is vital for a firm's future viability and even existence as a going concern.
marketing: This concept originated from Adam Smith's book The Wealth of Nations but would not become widely used until nearly 200 years later.
marketing: Jerome McCarthy; who presented them within a managerial approach that covered analysis, consumer behavior, market research, market segmentation, and planning.
marketing: Journal of Macromarketing.
marketing: Reciprocity: Businesses tend to buy from businesses they sell to.
marketing: A distinction should be made between marketing research and market research.
marketing: The stages of research include:
marketing: Outlets such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Reddit, Pinterest, Snapchat, TikTok.
marketing: Marketing concept: This is the most common concept used in contemporary marketing, and is a customer-centric approach based on products that suit new consumer tastes.
marketing: Well-designed models should exhibit clearly defined categories that are mutually exclusive, with no overlap.
marketing: To stimulate the growth of sales/revenue, use of advertising may be high, in order to heighten awareness of the product in question.
marketing: ISBN 978-0-87584-585-2.
marketing: The plan is created to accomplish specific marketing objectives, outlining a company's advertising and marketing efforts for a given period, describing the current marketing position of a business, and discussing the target market and marketing mix to be used to achieve marketing goals.
marketing: Buying influences: B2B purchasing is influenced by multiple people in various departments such as quality control, accounting, and logistics while B2C marketing is only influenced by the person making the purchase and possibly a few others.
marketing: Production concept: specializes in producing as much as possible of a given product or service in order to achieve economies of scale or economies of scope.
marketing: Phillip Kotler, popularised this approach and helped spread the 4 Ps model.
marketing: His classification is a more consumer-orientated version of the 4 Ps that attempts to better fit the movement from mass marketing to niche marketing.
marketing: (eds), The Rise and Fall of Mass Marketing, Routledge, 2014
Weitz, Barton A.
marketing: The 7 P's of B2B marketing are product, price, place, promotion, people, process, and physical evidence.
marketing: Selling concept: focuses on the selling/promotion of the firm's existing products, rather than developing new products to satisfy unmet needs or wants primarily through promotion and direct sales techniques, largely for "unsought goods" in industrial companies.
marketing: Consumers buy products in smaller volumes suitable for personal use.
marketing: Marketing is the act of acquiring, satisfying and retaining customers.
marketing: A related definition, from the sales process engineering perspective, defines marketing as "a set of processes that are interconnected and interdependent with other functions of a business aimed at achieving customer interest and satisfaction".
marketing: Accessible – how a segment can be accessed via Marketing Communications produced by a firm
Measurable – can the segment be quantified and its size determined?
marketing: Sometimes tasks are contracted to dedicated marketing firms, like a media, market research, or advertising agency.
marketing: B2C marketing focuses on appealing directly to consumers.
marketing: This is so, if revenue for the product comes from efficiency savings in production, over actual sales of a good/service.
marketing: time, energy, or attention or any sacrifices consumers make in order to acquire a product or service.
marketing: The next step in the targeting process is the level of differentiation involved in a segment serving.
marketing: Leasing: Businesses tend to lease expensive items while consumers tend to save up to buy expensive items.
marketing: The innovator's dilemma: when new technologies cause great firms to fail.
marketing: "Periodization in Marketing History".
marketing: Other extensions include "people", "process", and "physical evidence", i.e.
marketing: In this context, marketing can be defined as "the management process that seeks to maximise returns to shareholders by developing relationships with valued customers and creating a competitive advantage".
marketing: The message is designed to persuade or tell a story to create awareness.
marketing: Cost
Cost refers to what is exchanged in return for the product.
marketing: Commonly used criteria include:
marketing: Discernable – how a segment can be differentiated from other segments.
marketing: consumers) typically uses B2B marketing strategies.
