marsh: Restoration is returning marshes to the landscape to replace those lost in the past.
marsh: They are regularly flooded but are often dry in the summer.
marsh: Wet meadows often have very high plant diversity and high densities of buried seeds.
marsh: They flourish where the rate of sediment buildup is greater than the rate at which the land level is sinking.
marsh: Glaciers once covered these landscapes, and as a result, shallow depressions were formed in great numbers.
marsh: In Northern Germany and Scandinavia they are called Marschland, Marsch or marsk; in France marais maritime.
marsh: Marshes can often be found at the edges of lakes and streams, where they form a transition between the aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.
marsh: In western North America, vernal pools tend to form in open grasslands, whereas in the east, they often occur in forested landscapes.
marsh: Some examples of freshwater marsh types in North America are:
marsh: These marshes are slowly declining.
marsh: If woody plants are present they tend to be low-growing shrubs, and the marsh is sometimes called a carr.
marsh: Common examples include cattails, sedges, papyrus and sawgrass.
marsh: They are usually known by the Dutch name of polders.
marsh: They are located close enough to the shoreline that the motion of the tides affects them, and, sporadically, they are covered with water.
marsh: The different types are produced by factors such as water level, nutrients, ice scour, and waves.
marsh: These factors greatly influence the range and scope of animal and plant life that can survive and reproduce in these environments.
marsh: Marshes also improve water quality by acting as a sink to filter pollutants and sediment from the water that flows through them.
marsh: Salt marshes are dominated by specially adapted rooted vegetation, primarily salt-tolerant grasses.
marsh: The most severe threats to this form of marsh are the increasing size and pollution of the cities surrounding them.
marsh: Further south, vernal pools form in pine savannas and flatwoods.
marsh: Coastal development and urban sprawl have caused significant loss of these essential habitats.
marsh: Although considered a freshwater marsh, the ocean tides affect this form of marsh.
marsh: They are also the most diverse of the three types of marsh.
marsh: This form of vegetation is what differentiates marshes from other types of wetland such as swamps, which are dominated by trees, and mires, which are wetlands that have accumulated deposits of acidic peat.
marsh: An example is the endangered gopher frog.
marsh: More in general, the word can be used for any low-lying and seasonally waterlogged terrain.
marsh: This biological productivity means that marshes contain 0.1% of global sequestered terrestrial carbon.
marsh: These locations allow the marshes to absorb the excess nutrients from the water running through them before they reach the oceans and estuaries.
marsh: Marshes have extremely high levels of biological production, some of the highest in the world, and therefore are important in supporting fisheries.
marsh: They are often dominated by grasses, rushes or reeds.
marsh: The pH in marshes tends to be neutral to alkaline, as opposed to bogs, where peat accumulates under more acid conditions.
marsh: The three main types of marsh are salt marshes, freshwater tidal marshes, and freshwater marshes.
marsh: They also happen on the edges of large lakes and rivers.
marsh: Marshes provide a habitat for many species of plants, animals, and insects that have adapted to living in flooded conditions or other environments.
marsh: Many amphibian species depend upon vernal pools for spring breeding; these ponds provide a habitat free from fish, which eat the eggs and young of amphibians.
marsh: Marshes of the Lowcountry (South Carolina) –  Beaufort County Library
marsh: Marshes differ depending mainly on their location and salinity.
marsh: They have been drained to create agricultural land or filled to accommodate urban sprawl.
marsh: They provide important breeding habitats for many species of waterfowl.
marsh: In ecology, a marsh is a wetland that is dominated by herbaceous plants rather than by woody plants.
marsh: As the playa dries during the summer, conspicuous plant zonation develops along the shoreline.
marsh: These depressions fill with water in the spring.
marsh: Though some marshes are expected to migrate upland, most natural marshlands will be threatened by sea level rise and associated erosion.
marsh: Marsh plants also tend to have rhizomes for underground storage and reproduction.
marsh: The plants must be able to survive in wet mud with low oxygen levels.
marsh: Restoration can be done on a large scale, such as by allowing rivers to flood naturally in the spring, or on a small scale by returning wetlands to urban landscapes.
marsh: Salt marshes are most commonly found in lagoons, estuaries, and on the sheltered side of a shingle or sandspit.
marsh: Many of these plants, therefore, have aerenchyma, channels within the stem that allow air to move from the leaves into the rooting zone.
marsh: Similar temporary ponds occur in other world ecosystems, where they may have local names.
marsh: Marshes partake in water purification by providing nutrient and pollution consumption.
marsh: These three can be found worldwide, and each contains a different set of organisms.
marsh: Aquatic animals, from fish to salamanders, are generally able to live with a low amount of oxygen in the water.
marsh: Saltwater marshes are found around the world in mid to high latitudes, wherever there are sections of protected coastline.
marsh: They can be covered in shallow water, but in the summer and fall, they can be completely dry.
marsh: Some can obtain oxygen from the air instead, while others can live indefinitely in conditions of low oxygen.
marsh: Hassocks or tussocks are firmer clumps of vegetation in marshy or boggy ground.
marsh: Marshes also provide the services of tourism, recreation, education, and research.
marsh: However, vernal pool can be applied to all such temporary pool ecosystems.
marsh: Ranging greatly in size and geographic location, freshwater marshes make up North America's most common form of wetland.
marsh: Some pools only occur seasonally, while others retain enough water to be present all year.
marsh: In the Netherlands and Belgium, they are designated as marine clay districts.
marsh: The currents there carry the fine particles around to the quiet side of the spit, and sediment begins to build up.
marsh: Marshes (and other wetlands) are able to absorb water during periods of heavy rainfall and slowly release it into waterways and therefore reduce the magnitude of flooding.
marsh: Prairie potholes are found in northern North America, such as the Prairie Pothole Region.
marsh: Like vernal pools, they are only present at certain times of the year and generally have a circular shape.
marsh: In Europe and in agricultural literature low-lying meadows that require draining and embanked polderlands are also referred to as marshes or marshland.
marsh: Large tracts of tidal marsh have been embanked and artificially drained.
marsh: In East Anglia, a region in the East of England, the embanked marshes are also known as Fens.
marsh: Marshes provide habitats for many kinds of invertebrates, fish, amphibians, waterfowl and aquatic mammals.
marsh: Moreover, they have an outsized influence on climate resilience of coastal areas and waterways, absorbing high tides and other water changes due to extreme weather.
marsh: However, without the stresses of salinity at work in its saltwater counterpart, the diversity of the plants and animals that live in and use freshwater tidal marshes is much higher than in salt marshes.
