medicine: Legal, credentialing, and financing frameworks are established by individual governments, augmented on occasion by international organizations, such as churches.
medicine: Telemedicine (also Telehealth) refers to preventive, promotive, and curative care delivery, including remote clinical services, such as diagnosis, monitoring, administration and provider education.
medicine: Health care rationing varies by country.
medicine: Podiatric medicine is the study of, diagnosis, and medical treatment of disorders of the foot, ankle, lower limb, hip and lower back.
medicine: It was under the Byzantines with physicians such of Theophilus Protospatharius that they realized the potential in uroscopy to determine disease in a time when no microscope or stethoscope existed.
medicine: In many Asian countries, on the other hand, it is traditional for physicians to also deliver drugs directly to patients, at least in some cases.
medicine: For example, a medicine man would apply herbs and say prayers for healing, or an ancient philosopher and physician would apply bloodletting according to the theories of humorism, or the four humors.
medicine: The first major class of antibiotics was the sulfa drugs, derived by German chemists originally from azo dyes.
medicine: In the United States, these services are supervised by a pathologist.
medicine: Emergency medicine is concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of acute or life-threatening conditions, including trauma, surgical, medical, pediatric, and psychiatric emergencies.
medicine: Subspecialties include electroencephalography, electromyography, evoked potential, nerve conduction study, and polysomnography.
medicine: autonomy – the patient has the right to refuse or choose their treatment.
medicine: When moral values are in conflict, the result may be an ethical dilemma or crisis.
medicine: Current activity: occupation, hobbies, what the patient actually does professionally and non-professionally.
medicine: In some centers, anesthesiology is part of the division of surgery (for historical and logistical reasons), although it is not a surgical discipline.
medicine: The main categories of telehealth:
medicine: This model is also being used increasingly in the west: especially for simply-treated conditions (eg, those needing general antibiotics), in remote locations, with vulnerable communities of patients, and in small or integrated medical facilities.
medicine: Pathology as a medical specialty is the branch of medicine that deals with the study of diseases and the morphologic, physiologic changes produced by them.
medicine: Clinical neurophysiology is concerned with testing the physiology or function of the central and peripheral aspects of the nervous system.
medicine: Pediatrics (AE) or paediatrics (BE) is devoted to the care of infants, children, and adolescents.
medicine: by x-rays, x-ray computed tomography, ultrasonography, and nuclear magnetic resonance tomography.
medicine: Lifestyle medicine is the study of the chronic conditions, and how to prevent, treat and reverse them.
medicine: It typically involves entry level education at a university medical school, followed by a period of supervised practice or internship, or residency.
medicine: The diagnosis and treatment may take only a few minutes or a few weeks, depending on the complexity of the issue.
medicine: Radiobiology is the study of the interactions between ionizing radiation and living organisms.
medicine: Occupational medicine is the provision of health advice to organizations and individuals to ensure that the highest standards of health and safety at work can be achieved and maintained.
medicine: Health spending varies by country, which results in differences in access to care and access to medicines.
medicine: "Surgery" refers to the practice of operative medicine, and most subspecialties in this area require preliminary training in General Surgery, which in the UK leads to membership of the Royal College of Surgeons of England (MRCS).
medicine: Bacteria and microorganisms were first observed with a microscope by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in 1676, initiating the scientific field microbiology.
medicine: These are collectively known as the Royal Colleges, although not all currently use the term "Royal".
medicine: The earliest records of dedicated hospitals come from Mihintale in Sri Lanka where evidence of dedicated medicinal treatment facilities for patients are found.
medicine: Telepsychology is the use of communication technology for the remote administration of psychological tests and psychotherapy.
medicine: Medical nutrition therapy is done by dietitians and is prescribed for diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, weight and eating disorders, allergies, malnutrition, and neoplastic diseases.
medicine: etc.), followed by questions on the body's main organ systems (heart, lungs, digestive tract, urinary tract, etc.).
medicine: Many other health science fields, e.g.
medicine: Access to information on conditions, treatments, quality, and pricing greatly affects the choice of patients/consumers and, therefore, the incentives of medical professionals.
medicine: Thus in some cases surgical training will not finish until more than a decade after medical school.
medicine: This can be followed by postgraduate vocational training.
medicine: In Greece, the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates, the "father of modern medicine", laid the foundation for a rational approach to medicine.
medicine: Neuroscience includes those disciplines of science that are related to the study of the nervous system.
medicine: The personnel that work in these medical laboratory departments are technically trained staff who do not hold medical degrees, but who usually hold an undergraduate medical technology degree, who actually perform the tests, assays, and procedures needed for providing the specific services.
medicine: Formerly, many internists were not subspecialized; such general physicians would see any complex nonsurgical problem; this style of practice has become much less common.
medicine: Nosology is the classification of diseases for various purposes.
medicine: Most services fall into two categories: clinical assessment (evaluating the patient's functional abilities in their environment) and clinical therapy.
medicine: Also known as ecological medicine, environmental medicine, or medical geology.
medicine: "Medicine" refers to the practice of non-operative medicine, and most of its subspecialties require preliminary training in Internal Medicine.
medicine: It is also intended as an assurance to patients and as a safeguard against charlatans that practice inadequate medicine for personal gain.
medicine: Obstetrics and gynecology (often abbreviated as OB/GYN (American English) or Obs & Gynae (British English)) are concerned respectively with childbirth and the female reproductive and associated organs.
medicine: Nosokinetics is the science/subject of measuring and modelling the process of care in health and social care systems.
medicine: For example, he was the first to recognize the reaction of the eye's pupil to light.
medicine: A variety of teaching methods have been employed in medical education, still itself a focus of active research.
medicine: The development of a speciality is often driven by new technology (such as the development of effective anaesthetics) or ways of working (such as emergency departments); the new specialty leads to the formation of a unifying body of doctors and the prestige of administering their own examination.
medicine: According to some sources, an emphasis on internal structures is implied.
medicine: In general, resident work hours in medicine are less than those in surgery, averaging about 60 hours per week in the US.
medicine: Most of our knowledge of ancient Hebrew medicine during the 1st millennium BC comes from the Torah, i.e.
medicine: A family tree is sometimes used.
medicine: Elsewhere, especially in Commonwealth nations, such specialists are often called physicians.
medicine: Medical practitioners upgrade their knowledge in various ways, including medical journals, seminars, conferences, and online programs.
medicine: The movement is facilitated by modern global information science, which allows as much of the available evidence as possible to be collected and analyzed according to standard protocols that are then disseminated to healthcare providers.
medicine: Cytology is the microscopic study of individual cells.
medicine: Interdisciplinary fields, where different medical specialties are mixed to function in certain occasions.
medicine: Family physicians often provide services across a broad range of settings including office based practices, emergency department coverage, inpatient care, and nursing home care.
medicine: Telepalliative care typically utilizes telecommunication technologies like video conferencing, messaging for follow-ups, and digital symptom assessments through questionnaires that generate alerts for healthcare professionals.
medicine: Since knowledge, techniques, and medical technology continue to evolve at a rapid rate, many regulatory authorities require continuing medical education.
medicine: Histology is the study of the structures of biological tissues by light microscopy, electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry.
medicine: Spanish doctor Santiago Ramón y Cajal is considered the father of modern neuroscience.
medicine: Herman Boerhaave is sometimes referred to as a "father of physiology" due to his exemplary teaching in Leiden and textbook 'Institutiones medicae' (1708).
medicine: Medical ethics is a system of moral principles that apply values and judgments to the practice of medicine.
medicine: Nuclear medicine is concerned with studying human organ systems by administering radiolabelled substances (radiopharmaceuticals) to the body, which can then be imaged outside the body by a gamma camera or a PET scanner.
medicine: While the laws generally require medical doctors to be trained in "evidence based", Western, or Hippocratic Medicine, they are not intended to discourage different paradigms of health.
medicine: A 2001 review of 160 Cochrane systematic reviews revealed that, according to two readers, 21.3% of the reviews concluded insufficient evidence, 20% concluded evidence of no effect, and 22.5% concluded positive effect.
medicine: Later this was described by Renaldus Columbus and Andrea Cesalpino.
medicine: Gynecology is the study of female reproductive system.
medicine: These practices consist of decentralized training structures and vary widely in empirical support; consequently, they may lack formal regulatory oversight or robust evidence for clinical efficacy.
medicine: The main branches of medicine are:
medicine: Surgical subspecialties include those a physician may specialize in after undergoing general surgery residency training as well as several surgical fields with separate residency training.
medicine: Family medicine, family practice, general practice or primary care is, in many countries, the first port-of-call for patients with non-emergency medical problems.
medicine: Delivery may be via private medical practices, state-owned hospitals and clinics, or charities, most commonly a combination of all three.
medicine: In modern urban practice, most internists are subspecialists: that is, they generally limit their medical practice to problems of one organ system or to one particular area of medical knowledge.
medicine: In Canada and the United States of America, a Doctor of Medicine degree, often abbreviated M.D., or a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, often abbreviated as D.O.
medicine: While the US healthcare system has come under fire for its lack of openness, new legislation may encourage greater openness.
medicine: The clinical examination involves the study of:
medicine: Also called chief concern or presenting complaint.
medicine: For example, gastroenterologists and nephrologists specialize respectively in diseases of the gut and the kidneys.
medicine: About 90% of medical visits can be satisfactorily and effectively dealt with by primary care provider(s).
medicine: Four actions are the basis of physical examination: inspection, palpation (feel), percussion (tap to determine resonance characteristics), and auscultation (listen), generally in that order, although auscultation occurs prior to percussion and palpation for abdominal assessments.
medicine: Biostatistics is the application of statistics to biological fields in the broadest sense.
medicine: In low-income countries, modern healthcare is often too expensive for the average person.
medicine: In the developed world, evidence-based medicine (EBM) is not universally applied in clinical practice; for example, a 2007 survey of literature reviews found that about 49% of medical interventions lacked sufficient evidence to support either benefit or harm.
medicine: Because post-residency fellowships can be competitive, many trainees devote two additional years to research.
medicine: In contrast to macroscopic or gross anatomy, cytology and histology are concerned with microscopic structures.
medicine: The first antibiotic was arsphenamine (Salvarsan) discovered by Paul Ehrlich in 1908 after he observed that bacteria took up toxic dyes that human cells did not.
medicine: Clinical pharmacology is concerned with how systems of therapeutics interact with patients.
medicine: Evidence-based medicine is a contemporary movement to establish the most effective algorithms of practice (ways of doing things) through the use of systematic reviews and meta-analysis.
medicine: Most developed countries provide health care to all citizens, with a few exceptions such as the United States where restrictions on health insurance coverage may limit affordability.
medicine: Prescientific forms of medicine, now known as traditional medicine or folk medicine, remain commonly used in the absence of scientific medicine and are thus called alternative medicine.
medicine: The anesthesiologist's role during surgery is to prevent derangement in the vital organs' (i.e.
medicine: Medical humanities includes the humanities (literature, philosophy, ethics, history and religion), social science (anthropology, cultural studies, psychology, sociology), and the arts (literature, theater, film, and visual arts) and their application to medical education and practice.
medicine: Microbiology is the study of cellular, multicellular, and acellular microorganisms such as protozoa, bacteria, fungi, viruses, prions, and viroids.
medicine: Other medical specialties may employ surgical procedures, such as ophthalmology and dermatology, but are not considered surgical sub-specialties per se.
medicine: Medicine is the science and practice of caring for patients, managing the diagnosis, prognosis, prevention, treatment and palliation of their injury or disease, while promoting their health.
medicine: The Hebrew contribution to the development of modern medicine started in the Byzantine Era, with the physician Asaph the Jew.
medicine: Pain management (also called pain medicine, or algiatry) is the medical discipline concerned with the relief of pain.
medicine: A main focus of neuroscience is the biology and physiology of the human brain and spinal cord.
medicine: requires a minimum of five years of residency after medical school.
medicine: Telerehabilitation (or e-rehabilitation) is the delivery of rehabilitation services over telecommunication networks and the Internet.
medicine: Subspecialties include transfusion medicine, cellular pathology, clinical chemistry, hematology, clinical microbiology, and clinical immunology.
medicine: Physicians like Vesalius improved upon or disproved some of the theories from the past.
medicine: Medical availability and clinical practice vary across the world due to regional differences in culture and technology.
medicine: These kinds of tests can be divided into recordings of: (1) spontaneous or continuously running electrical activity, or (2) stimulus evoked responses.
medicine: and unique to the United States, must be completed in and delivered from a recognized university.
medicine: brain, heart, kidneys) functions and postoperative pain.
medicine: A profession is said to be regulated when access and exercise is subject to the possession of a specific professional qualification.
medicine: On subsequent visits, the process may be repeated in an abbreviated manner to obtain any new history, symptoms, physical findings, lab or imaging results, or specialist consultations.
medicine: The medical encounter is then documented in the medical record, which is a legal document in many jurisdictions.
medicine: Most tribal societies provide no guarantee of healthcare for the population as a whole.
medicine: truthfulness and honesty – the concept of informed consent has increased in importance since the historical events of the Doctors' Trial of the Nuremberg trials, Tuskegee syphilis experiment, and others.
medicine: There is a degree of overlap between nuclear medicine and radiology, as evidenced by the emergence of combined devices such as the PET/CT scanner.
medicine: Veterinary medicine; veterinarians apply similar techniques as physicians to the care of non-human animals.
medicine: Well-known spiritual systems include animism (the notion of inanimate objects having spirits), spiritualism (an appeal to gods or communion with ancestor spirits); shamanism (the vesting of an individual with mystic powers); and divination (magically obtaining the truth).
medicine: It is also fundamental to epidemiology and evidence-based medicine.
medicine: Epidemiology is the study of the demographics of disease processes, and includes, but is not limited to, the study of epidemics.
medicine: Primary care visits might include treatment of minor, acute or chronic illnesses, preventive care, and health education.
medicine: Urgent care focuses on delivery of unscheduled, walk-in care outside of the hospital emergency department for injuries and illnesses that are not severe enough to require care in an emergency department.
medicine: Evidence suggests that teleneurotherapy could enhance neurological treatment if it incorporates the therapeutic effect of a systematic abiotic impact of physical forces with key parameters of mother-fetus interaction.
medicine: Travel medicine or emporiatrics deals with health problems of international travelers or travelers across highly different environments.
medicine: Family history (FH): listing of diseases in the family that may impact the patient.
medicine: Elsewhere, especially in North America, general pediatrics is often a form of primary care.
medicine: Such values do not give answers as to how to handle a particular situation, but provide a useful framework for understanding conflicts.
medicine: Reproductive medicine and fertility medicine are generally practiced by gynecological specialists.
medicine: Hippocrates introduced the Hippocratic Oath for physicians, which is still relevant and in use today, and was the first to categorize illnesses as acute, chronic, endemic and epidemic, and use terms such as, "exacerbation, relapse, resolution, crisis, paroxysm, peak, and convalescence".
medicine: The earliest known medical texts in the world were found in the ancient Syrian city of Ebla and date back to 2500 BCE.
medicine: There is a perceived tension between the demand for transparency and concerns over patient confidentiality and the commercial misuse of medical data.
medicine: Distinguishable from history of previous illness, often called past medical history (PMH).
medicine: Medical history comprises HPI and PMH.
medicine: Doctors who are negligent or intentionally harmful in their care of patients can face charges of medical malpractice and be subject to civil, criminal, or professional sanctions.
medicine: Pharmaceutical medicine is the medical scientific discipline concerned with the discovery, development, evaluation, registration, monitoring and medical aspects of marketing of medicines for the benefit of patients and public health.
medicine: Surgical subspecialties that one may pursue following general surgery residency training:
medicine: The characteristics of any given health care system have a significant impact on the way medical care is provided.
medicine: Sexual medicine is concerned with diagnosing, assessing and treating all disorders related to sexuality.
medicine: As a scholarly discipline, medical ethics encompasses its practical application in clinical settings as well as work on its history, philosophy, theology, and sociology.
medicine: Endocrinology is the study of hormones and their effect throughout the body of animals.
medicine: Many modern molecular tests such as flow cytometry, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), immunohistochemistry, cytogenetics, gene rearrangements studies, and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) fall within the territory of pathology.
medicine: Watson (United States); Salvador Luria (Italy); Alexandre Yersin (Switzerland); Kitasato Shibasaburō (Japan); Jean-Martin Charcot, Claude Bernard, Paul Broca (France); Adolfo Lutz (Brazil); Nikolai Korotkov (Russia); Sir William Osler (Canada); and Harvey Cushing (United States).
medicine: After 750 CE, the Muslim world had the works of Hippocrates, Galen and Sushruta translated into Arabic, and Islamic physicians engaged in some significant medical research.
medicine: This difference does not apply in the UK where all doctors are now required by law to work less than 48 hours per week on average.
medicine: Basic sciences of medicine; this is what every physician is educated in, and some return to in biomedical research.
medicine: Disaster medicine deals with medical aspects of emergency preparedness, disaster mitigation and management.
medicine: Therapeutics is the field, more commonly referenced in earlier periods of history, of the various remedies that can be used to treat disease and promote health.
medicine: Modern scientific medicine is highly developed and widespread in the Western world, whereas in some low-resource regions—including parts of Africa, the Pacific Islands of Oceania, Southeast Asia, and Latin America—populations often rely more heavily on traditional medicine.
medicine: Physiology is the study of the normal functioning of the body and the underlying regulatory mechanisms.
medicine: For example, while stitching technique for sutures is an art learned through practice, science provides knowledge of what happens at the cellular and molecular level in the tissues being stitched.
medicine: Six of the values that commonly apply to medical ethics discussions are:
medicine: Medical genetics is concerned with the diagnosis and management of hereditary disorders.
medicine: Contemporary medicine is, in general, conducted within health care systems.
medicine: The Benedictine order was noted for setting up hospitals and infirmaries in their monasteries, growing medical herbs and becoming the chief medical care givers of their districts, as at the great Abbey of Cluny.
medicine: This allows for the treatment and care of patients with more complex or urgent or serious medical conditions, which in turn may require more expertise (including multi-disciplinary teams) and resources (facilities, staff, bed days) to effectively treat.
medicine: Some related clinical specialties include neurology, neurosurgery and psychiatry.
medicine: Telepalliative care is a remote approach to optimising quality of life and relieving suffering for people with serious, complex and often fatal illnesses.
medicine: Tertiary care medical services are provided by specialist teams of providers in larger, more specialised hospitals or regional medical centers, which are equipped with diagnostic and treatment facilities not typically available at local (often smaller) hospitals.
medicine: In the UK, most specialities have their own body or college, which has its own entrance examination.
medicine: Forensic medicine deals with medical questions in legal context, such as determination of the time and cause of death, type of weapon used to inflict trauma, reconstruction of the facial features using remains of deceased (skull) thus aiding identification.
medicine: Medicine encompasses a variety of health care practices which evolved to maintain and restore health through the prevention and treatment of illness and infection.
medicine: Primary care is directed to the health of entire populations and thus providers care for patients of all ages and sexes.
medicine: Pharmacology developed in part from herbalism and some drugs are still derived from plants (atropine, ephedrine, warfarin, aspirin, digoxin, vinca alkaloids, taxol, hyoscine, etc.).
medicine: In many cases these materials were used ritually as magical substances by priests, shamans, or medicine men.
medicine: These terms, internist or physician (in the narrow sense, common outside North America), generally exclude practitioners of gynecology and obstetrics, pathology, psychiatry, and especially surgery and its subspecialities.
medicine: Conservation medicine studies the relationship between human and non-human animal health, and environmental conditions.
medicine: (Latin: Salus aegroti suprema lex.)
justice – concerns the distribution of scarce health resources, and the decision of who gets what treatment (fairness and equality).
medicine: A follow-up may be advised.
medicine: Pathology as a science is the study of disease – the causes, course, progression and resolution thereof.
medicine: In the Commonwealth of Nations and some other countries, specialist pediatricians and geriatricians are also described as specialist physicians (or internists) who have subspecialized by age of patient rather than by organ system.
medicine: Hospital medicine is the general medical care of hospitalized patients.
medicine: In some jurisdictions this function is combined with the emergency department.
medicine: These professions will have their own ethical standards, professional education, and bodies.
medicine: The medical decision-making (MDM) process includes the analysis and synthesis of all the above data to come up with a list of possible diagnoses (the differential diagnoses), along with an idea of what needs to be done to obtain a definitive diagnosis that would explain the patient's problem.
medicine: The field of medical anthropology examines the ways in which culture and society are organized around or impacted by issues of health, health care and related issues.
medicine: dietetics
Medical ethics deals with ethical and moral principles that apply values and judgments to the practice of medicine.
medicine: After the fall of the Western Roman Empire and the onset of the Early Middle Ages, the Greek tradition of medicine went into decline in Western Europe, although it continued uninterrupted in the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire.
medicine: Transparency of information is another factor defining a delivery system.
medicine: respect for persons – the patient (and the person treating the patient) have the right to be treated with dignity.
medicine: Secondary care medical services are provided by medical specialists in their offices, practices or clinics, or at local community hospitals, to patients referred by the primary care provider who first diagnosed or treated the patient.
medicine: 'Referrals' are made of those patients who required the particular expertise of, or specific procedures performed by, specialists.
medicine: In China, archaeological evidence of medicine in Chinese dates back to the Bronze Age Shang dynasty, based on seeds for herbalism and tools presumed to have been used for surgery.
medicine: Telenursing is experiencing significant growth globally due to factors such as the need to reduce healthcare costs, an increasing aging and chronically ill population, and expanded healthcare coverage to distant, rural, small, or sparsely populated regions.
medicine: The Church also established a network of cathedral schools and universities where medicine was studied.
medicine: The term Most Responsible Physician (MRP) or attending physician is also used interchangeably to describe this role.
medicine: Health informatics is a relatively recent field that deal with the application of computers and information technology to medicine.
medicine: Anesthesiology (also known as anaesthetics): concerned with the perioperative management of the surgical patient.
medicine: A knowledge of biostatistics is essential in the planning, evaluation, and interpretation of medical research.
medicine: The treatment plan may include ordering additional medical laboratory tests and medical imaging studies, starting therapy, referral to a specialist, or watchful observation.
medicine: Physicians whose primary professional focus is hospital medicine are called hospitalists in the United States and Canada.
medicine: Medications (Rx): what drugs the patient takes including prescribed, over-the-counter, and home remedies, as well as alternative and herbal medicines or remedies.
medicine: Telepsychiatry (telemental health) uses telecommunications technology to provide remote psychiatric care for individuals with mental health conditions.
medicine: In the UK, this was traditionally evidenced by passing the examination for the Membership of the Royal College of Physicians (MRCP) or the equivalent college in Scotland or Ireland.
medicine: Separation of prescribing and dispensing is a practice in medicine and pharmacy in which the physician who provides a medical prescription is different from the pharmacist who provides the prescription drug to the patient.
medicine: Medicine has been practiced since prehistoric times, and for most of this time it was an art (an area of creativity and skill), frequently having connections to the religious and philosophical beliefs of local culture.
medicine: The regulated professions database contains a list of regulated professions for doctor of medicine in the EU member states, EEA countries and Switzerland.
medicine: The Persian Bimaristan hospitals were an early example of public hospitals.
medicine: Sometimes these tests are performed by techs without a medical degree, but the interpretation of these tests is done by a medical professional.
medicine: The healthcare provider uses sight, hearing, touch, and sometimes smell (e.g., in infection, uremia, diabetic ketoacidosis).
medicine: Depending upon the health insurance plan and the managed care system, various forms of "utilization review", such as prior authorization of tests, may place barriers on accessing expensive services.
medicine: History of present illness (HPI): the chronological order of events of symptoms and further clarification of each symptom.
medicine: The concept of hospital as institution to offer medical care and possibility of a cure for the patients due to the ideals of Christian charity, rather than just merely a place to die, appeared in the Byzantine Empire.
medicine: the Five Books of Moses, which contain various health related laws and rituals.
medicine: Preventive medicine is the branch of medicine concerned with preventing disease.
medicine: The components of the medical interview and encounter are:
medicine: In North America, specialists in internal medicine are commonly called "internists".
medicine: They are in the patient's own words and are recorded along with the duration of each one.
medicine: There are variations from country to country regarding which specialties certain subspecialties are in.
medicine: Embryology is the study of the early development of organisms.
medicine: Related fields include psychotherapy and clinical psychology.
medicine: At present, some specialties of medicine do not fit easily into either of these categories, such as radiology, pathology, or anesthesia.
medicine: These are the symptoms.
medicine: Toxicology is the study of hazardous effects of drugs and poisons.
medicine: The main tomes used both by medicine students and expert physicians were De materia medica and Pharmacopoeia.
medicine: Chief complaint (CC): the reason for the current medical visit.
medicine: Diagnostic radiology is concerned with imaging of the body, e.g.
medicine: The scope and sciences underpinning human medicine overlap many other fields.
medicine: Physicians have many specializations and sub specializations into certain branches of medicine, which are listed below.
medicine: Working together as an interdisciplinary team, many highly trained health professionals besides medical practitioners are involved in the delivery of modern health care.
medicine: Telepharmacy involves delivering pharmaceutical care via telecommunications to patients in locations where direct contact with a pharmacist may not be possible or difficult.
medicine: Immunology is the study of the immune system, which includes the innate and adaptive immune system in humans, for example.
medicine: Furthermore, surgical training can be very difficult and time-consuming.
medicine: In most countries, it is a legal requirement for a medical doctor to be licensed or registered.
medicine: Wilderness medicine entails the practice of medicine in the wild, where conventional medical facilities may not be available.
medicine: Follow-up encounters may be shorter but follow the same general procedure, and specialists follow a similar process.
medicine: These topics generate significant political and public policy attention, particularly in the United States where healthcare is regarded as excessively costly but population health metrics lag similar nations.
medicine: Photobiology is the study of the interactions between non-ionizing radiation and living organisms.
medicine: Genetics is the study of genes, and their role in biological inheritance.
medicine: Pharmacology has become increasingly sophisticated; modern biotechnology allows drugs targeted towards specific physiological processes to be developed, sometimes designed for compatibility with the body to reduce side-effects.
medicine: Research indicates that systematic physical stimuli from standard electronic devices, such as tablets with headphones, may treat injured nervous systems online by modulating neuronal plasticity.
medicine: Recent research has shown therapeutic effects when implementing the APIN method in the online treatment of patients with various neurological conditions.
medicine: The Edwin Smith Papyrus dating back to 1600 BCE is an early work on surgery, while the Ebers Papyrus dating back to 1500 BCE is akin to a textbook on medicine.
medicine: This is intended to ensure that the entire population has access to medical care on the basis of need rather than ability to pay.
medicine: Before this, medical doctors treated both humans and other animals.
medicine: An initial medical encounter with a patient typically begins with a review of the patient's medical history and medical record, followed by a medical interview and a physical examination.
medicine: Others that did significant work include William Williams Keen, William Coley, James D.
medicine: Neurology is concerned with diseases of the nervous system.
medicine: Balancing accountability with privacy remains a central challenge.
medicine: The word "physic" itself, from which "physician" derives, was the old word for what is now called a medicine, and also the field of medicine.
medicine: Nutrition science (theoretical focus) and dietetics (practical focus) is the study of the relationship of food and drink to health and disease, especially in determining an optimal diet.
medicine: In the European Union, the profession of doctor of medicine is regulated.
medicine: Because their patients are often seriously ill or require complex investigations, internists do much of their work in hospitals.
medicine: Others include Abulcasis, Avenzoar, Ibn al-Nafis, and Averroes.
medicine: Evolutionary medicine is a perspective on medicine derived through applying evolutionary theory.
medicine: Review of systems (ROS) or systems inquiry: a set of additional questions to ask, which may be missed on HPI: a general enquiry (have you noticed any weight loss, change in sleep quality, fevers, lumps and bumps?
medicine: This restricts the considerable legal authority of the medical profession to physicians that are trained and qualified by national standards.
medicine: Podiatric medicine is the study of, diagnosis, and medical and surgical treatment of disorders of the foot, ankle, lower limb, hip and lower back.
medicine: Biophysics is an interdisciplinary science that uses the methods of physics and physical chemistry to study biological systems.
medicine: In addition, fellowships can last an additional one to three years.
medicine: In Egypt, Imhotep (3rd millennium BCE) is the first physician in history known by name.
medicine: Surgeons must also manage pre-operative, post-operative, and potential surgical candidates on the hospital wards.
medicine: The post-18th century modernity period brought more groundbreaking researchers from Europe.
medicine: The physical examination is the examination of the patient for medical signs of disease that are objective and observable, in contrast to symptoms that are volunteered by the patient and are not necessarily objectively observable.
medicine: Pharmacology is the study of drugs and their actions.
medicine: Medical physics is the study of the applications of physics principles in medicine.
medicine: Aerospace medicine deals with medical problems related to flying and space travel.
medicine: For example, some argue that the principles of autonomy and beneficence clash when patients refuse blood transfusions, considering them life-saving; and truth-telling was not emphasized to a large extent before the HIV era.
medicine: Tropical medicine deals with the prevention and treatment of tropical diseases.
medicine: The word "medicine" is derived from Latin medicus, meaning "a physician".
medicine: Biomedical Engineering is a field dealing with the application of engineering principles to medical practice.
medicine: Pierre Fauchard has been called "the father of modern dentistry".
medicine: Sports medicine deals with the treatment and prevention and rehabilitation of sports/exercise injuries such as muscle spasms, muscle tears, injuries to ligaments (ligament tears or ruptures) and their repair in athletes, amateur and professional.
medicine: Sometimes, no good solution to a dilemma in medical ethics exists, and occasionally, the values of the medical community (i.e., the hospital and its staff) conflict with the values of the individual patient, family, or larger non-medical community.
medicine: Gender-based medicine studies the biological and physiological differences between the human sexes and how that affects differences in disease.
medicine: Conflicts can also arise between health care providers or among family members.
medicine: Persian physician Rhazes was one of the first to question the Greek theory of humorism, which nevertheless remained influential in both medieval Western and medieval Islamic medicine.
medicine: Additionally, he has been described as a doctor's doctor, the father of pediatrics, and a pioneer of ophthalmology.
medicine: Interventional radiologists can access areas in the body under imaging for an intervention or diagnostic sampling.
medicine: Sub-specialties of surgery often require seven or more years.
medicine: Modern medical care also depends on the keeping and use of information, including about a particular patient—still kept in many health care settings on paper 'medical records', but increasingly nowadays by electronic means.
medicine: Medical education and training varies around the world.
medicine: It supplied food to the population during famine and distributed food to the poor.
medicine: Medical specialties
medicine: This welfare system the church funded through collecting taxes on a large scale and possessing large farmlands and estates.
medicine: Physical medicine and rehabilitation (or physiatry) is concerned with functional improvement after injury, illness, or congenital disorders.
medicine: Provision of medical care is classified into primary, secondary, and tertiary care categories.
medicine: A database of objectives covering medical knowledge, as suggested by national societies across the United States, can be searched at http://data.medobjectives.marian.edu/ Archived 4 October 2018 at the Wayback Machine.
medicine: In the United Kingdom, Alexander Fleming, Joseph Lister, Francis Crick and Florence Nightingale are considered important.
medicine: Community health or public health is an aspect of health services concerned with threats to the overall health of a community based on population health analysis.
medicine: Outside of the operating room, the anesthesiology physician also serves the same function in the labor and delivery ward, and some are specialized in critical medicine.
medicine: Although the concept of uroscopy was known to Galen, he did not see the importance of using it to localize the disease.
medicine: It is studied separately in temperate climates where those diseases are quite unfamiliar to medical practitioners and their local clinical needs.
medicine: Like internal medicine, there are many pediatric subspecialties for specific age ranges, organ systems, disease classes, and sites of care delivery.
medicine: Dermatology
Neurosurgery
Ophthalmology
Oral and maxillofacial surgery
Orthopedic surgery
Otorhinolaryngology
Podiatric surgery – do not undergo medical school training, but rather separate training in podiatry school
Urology
medicine: Primary care medical services are provided by physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, or other health professionals who have first contact with a patient seeking medical treatment or care.
medicine: Teleneurotherapy utilizes computers and communications technology to deliver neurotherapy remotely.
medicine: Past medical history (PMH/PMHx): concurrent medical problems, past hospitalizations and operations, injuries, past infectious diseases or vaccinations, history of known allergies.
medicine: International healthcare policy researchers have advocated that "user fees" be removed in these areas to ensure access; however, even with removal of patient fee obligations, significant costs and barriers remain for the poor and the sick in accessing sufficient care.
medicine: In recent centuries, since the advent of modern science, most medicine has become a combination of art and science (both basic and applied, under the umbrella of medical science).
medicine: From ancient times, Christian emphasis on practical charity gave rise to the development of systematic nursing and hospitals, and the Catholic Church today remains the largest non-government provider of medical services in the world.
medicine: The oldest Egyptian medical text is the Kahun Gynaecological Papyrus from around 2000 BCE, which describes gynaecological diseases.
medicine: (Latin: Voluntas aegroti suprema lex.)
beneficence – a practitioner should act in the best interest of the patient.
medicine: Basic diagnostic medical devices (e.g., stethoscope, tongue depressor) are typically used.
medicine: Notable Islamic medical pioneers include the Persian polymath, Avicenna, who, along with Imhotep and Hippocrates, has also been called the "father of medicine".
medicine: Allergies are also recorded.
medicine: Training in internal medicine (as opposed to surgical training), varies considerably across the world: see the articles on medical education for more details.
medicine: Vaccines were discovered by Edward Jenner and Louis Pasteur.
medicine: In the broadest meaning of "medicine", there are many different specialties.
medicine: From Germany and Austria, doctors Rudolf Virchow, Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen, Karl Landsteiner and Otto Loewi made notable contributions.
medicine: The Huangdi Neijing, the progenitor of Chinese medicine, is a medical text written beginning in the 2nd century BCE and compiled in the 3rd century.
medicine: However, the fourteenth and fifteenth century Black Death devastated both the Middle East and Europe, and it has even been argued that Western Europe was generally more effective in recovering from the pandemic than the Middle East.
medicine: This list is covered by the Directive 2005/36/EC.
medicine: Alternative treatments outside of scientific medicine with ethical, safety and efficacy concerns are termed quackery or being based on fringe science.
medicine: Psychiatry is the branch of medicine concerned with the bio-psycho-social study of the etiology, diagnosis, treatment and prevention of cognitive, perceptual, emotional and behavioral disorders.
medicine: The health professionals who provide care in medicine comprise multiple professions, such as medics, nurses, physiotherapists, and psychologists.
medicine: Veterinary medicine was, for the first time, truly separated from human medicine in 1761, when the French veterinarian Claude Bourgelat founded the world's first veterinary school in Lyon, France.
medicine: Social history (SH): birthplace, residences, marital history, social and economic status, habits (including diet, medications, tobacco, alcohol).
medicine: The medical profession has been conceptualized from a sociological perspective.
medicine: Each radiopharmaceutical consists of two parts: a tracer that is specific for the function under study (e.g., neurotransmitter pathway, metabolic pathway, blood flow, or other), and a radionuclide (usually either a gamma-emitter or a positron emitter).
medicine: As science and technology developed, medicine became more reliant upon medications.
medicine: Throughout history and in Europe right until the late 18th century, not only plant products were used as medicine, but also animal (including human) body parts and fluids.
medicine: Laser medicine involves the use of lasers in the diagnostics or treatment of various conditions.
medicine: In North America, it requires at least three years of residency training after medical school, which can then be followed by a one- to three-year fellowship in the subspecialties listed above.
medicine: Telenutrition refers to the use of video conferencing or telephony to provide online consultations by nutritionists or dieticians.
medicine: Advocates argue that openness helps patients make informed decisions, while critics warn it can expose sensitive records and invite exploitation by insurers, employers, or marketers.
medicine: That practice eventually spread to the rest of Europe.
medicine: Internal medicine is the medical specialty dealing with the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of adult diseases.
medicine: Surgical training in the U.S.
medicine: Diving medicine (or hyperbaric medicine) is the prevention and treatment of diving-related problems.
medicine: In India, the oldest known surgical text, the Sushruta Samhita written by the surgeon Sushruta, described numerous surgical operations, including the earliest forms of plastic surgery as well as methods of sterilization for surgical instruments.
medicine: These occur in physician offices, medical practices, clinics, nursing homes, schools, patients' homes, and in other places that are typically geographically close to where patients live, work or study.
medicine: Addiction medicine deals with the treatment of addiction.
medicine: Andreas Vesalius was the author of De humani corporis fabrica, an important book on human anatomy.
medicine: From New Zealand and Australia came Maurice Wilkins, Howard Florey, and Frank Macfarlane Burnet.
medicine: Telenursing can help address nurse shortages, reduce travel time and distances, and minimize hospital admissions.
medicine: Modern scientific biomedical research (where results are testable and reproducible) began to replace early Western traditions based on herbalism, the Greek "four humours" and other such pre-modern notions.
medicine: The Schola Medica Salernitana in Salerno, looking to the learning of Greek and Arab physicians, grew to be the finest medical school in medieval Europe.
medicine: After examining for signs and interviewing for symptoms, the doctor may order medical tests (e.g., blood tests), take a biopsy, or prescribe pharmaceutical drugs or other therapies.
medicine: Differential diagnosis methods help to rule out conditions based on the information provided.
medicine: In the Western world there are centuries of tradition and practice differentiating pharmacists from physicians, and two quite separate professions developed.
medicine: There are many subspecialities (or subdisciplines) of internal medicine:
medicine: During the encounter, properly informing the patient of all relevant facts is an important part of the relationship and the development of trust within the context of the doctor-patient relationship.
medicine: Within medical circles, specialities usually fit into one of two broad categories: "Medicine" and "Surgery".
medicine: Molecular biology is the study of molecular underpinnings of the process of replication, transcription and translation of the genetic material.
medicine: Some primary care providers may also take care of hospitalized patients and deliver babies in a secondary care setting.
medicine: Biomechanics is the study of the structure and function of biological systems by means of the methods of Mechanics.
medicine: non-maleficence – "first, do no harm" (Latin: primum non-nocere).
medicine: The major shift in medical thinking was the gradual rejection, especially during the Black Death in the 14th and 15th centuries, of what may be called the "traditional authority" approach to science and medicine.
medicine: The Cochrane Collaboration leads this movement.
medicine: As a diagnostic specialty, pathology can be considered the basis of modern scientific medical knowledge and plays a large role in evidence-based medicine.
medicine: Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry taking place in living organisms, especially the structure and function of their chemical components.
medicine: Hospice and Palliative Medicine is a relatively modern branch of clinical medicine that deals with pain and symptom relief and emotional support in patients with terminal illnesses including cancer and heart failure.
medicine: He wrote The Canon of Medicine which became a standard medical text at many medieval European universities, considered one of the most famous books in the history of medicine.
medicine: Some volumes of Rhazes's work Al-Mansuri, namely "On Surgery" and "A General Book on Therapy", became part of the medical curriculum in European universities.
medicine: The Greek physician Galen was also one of the greatest surgeons of the ancient world and performed many audacious operations, including brain and eye surgeries.
medicine: In the UK, neurology is a subspecialty of general medicine.
medicine: Pharmacogenomics is a form of individualized medicine.
medicine: Respiratory (large airways and lungs)
Skin
Vital signs including height, weight, body temperature, blood pressure, pulse, respiration rate, and hemoglobin oxygen saturation
It is to likely focus on areas of interest highlighted in the medical history and may not include everything listed above.
medicine: In such societies, healthcare is available to those who can afford to pay for it, have self-insured it (either directly or as part of an employment contract), or may be covered by care financed directly by the government or tribe.
medicine: The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends integrating palliative care as early as possible for any chronic and fatal illness.
medicine: In the early modern period, important early figures in medicine and anatomy emerged in Europe, including Gabriele Falloppio and William Harvey.
medicine: Tertiary care may include that provided at burn treatment or trauma centers, advanced neonatology unit services, organ transplants, high-risk pregnancy and child delivery, radiation oncology, and very many other forms of specialist and intensive care.
medicine: In general, this entails a medical degree from a university and accreditation by a medical board or an equivalent national organization, which may ask the applicant to pass exams.
