meteor: Louis Area, security cameras, dashcams, webcams, and video doorbells captured the object as it burned up in the earth's atmosphere.
meteor: Most meteors are, however, observed at night, when darkness allows fainter objects to be recognized.
meteor: they are usually 1 mm (1⁄25 in) or smaller.
meteor: Such ionization trails can last up to 45 minutes at a time.
meteor: 2013 – Chelyabinsk Oblast, Russia
The Chelyabinsk meteor was an extremely bright, exploding fireball, or superbolide, measuring about 17 to 20 metres (56 to 66 feet) across, with an estimated mass of 11,000 tonnes (12,125 short tons) as the relatively small asteroid entered Earth's atmosphere.
meteor: A meteor shower is the result of an interaction between a planet, such as Earth, and streams of debris from a comet or other source.
meteor: For bodies with a size scale larger than 10 cm (4 in) to several meters meteor visibility is due to the atmospheric ram pressure (not friction) that heats the meteoroid so that it glows and creates a shining trail of gases and melted meteoroid particles.
meteor: In a range of countries networks of sky observing installations have been set up to monitor meteors.
meteor: An increasingly bright streak was observed during morning daylight with a large contrail lingering behind.
meteor: A relatively small percentage of fireballs hit Earth's atmosphere and then pass out again: these are termed Earth-grazing fireballs.
meteor: At 00:07 local time a security camera at the high altitude W.
meteor: After reviewing historical records, Heinrich Wilhelm Matthias Olbers predicted the storm's return in 1867, drawing other astronomers' attention to the phenomenon.
meteor: A number of specific meteors have been observed, largely by members of the public and largely by accident, but with enough detail that orbits of the meteoroids producing the meteors have been calculated.
meteor: The superbolide meteor was part of the South Taurids meteor shower.
meteor: Orange-yellow (sodium)
Yellow (iron)
Blue-green (magnesium)
Violet (calcium)
Red (atmospheric nitrogen and oxygen)
meteor: Small, sand-grain sized meteoroids are entering the atmosphere constantly, essentially every few seconds in any given region of the atmosphere, and thus ionization trails can be found in the upper atmosphere more or less continuously.
meteor: Meteors may occur in showers, which arise when Earth passes through a stream of debris left by a comet, or as "random" or "sporadic" meteors, not associated with a specific stream of space debris.
meteor: The IAU has no official definition of "bolide", and generally considers the term synonymous with "fireball".
meteor: In the late twentieth century, bolide has also come to mean any object that hits Earth and explodes, with no regard to its composition (asteroid or comet).
meteor: 2019 – Midwestern United States
On November 11, 2019, a meteor was spotted streaking across the skies of the Midwestern United States.
meteor: The left-over debris is called meteoric dust or just meteor dust.
meteor: The word bolide comes from the Greek βολίς (bolis)  which can mean a missile or to flash.
meteor: It had a spherical "ghost" image slightly trailing the main object (likely a lens reflection of the intense fireball), and a bright fireball explosion associated with the breakup of a substantial fraction of the object.
meteor: The meteoroids spread out along the entire orbit of the comet to form a meteoroid stream, also known as a "dust trail" (as opposed to a comet's "dust tail" caused by the very small particles that are quickly blown away by solar radiation pressure).
meteor: FRIPON
North American Meteor Network
Desert Fireball Network
European Fireball Network
meteor: Millions of meteors occur in Earth's atmosphere daily.
meteor: The passage of Earth through cosmic debris from comets and other sources is a recurring event in many cases.
meteor: Some researchers attribute this to an intrinsic variation in the meteoroid population along Earth's orbit, with a peak in big fireball-producing debris around spring and early summer.
meteor: Physical vibrations induced by the electromagnetic impulses would then be heard if they are powerful enough to make grasses, plants, eyeglass frames, the hearer's own body (see microwave auditory effect), and other conductive materials vibrate.
meteor: A steadily growing number of fireballs are recorded at the American Meteor Society every year.
meteor: These are sometimes called electrophonic sounds.
meteor: The astronomer Denison Olmsted extensively studied this storm, concluding that it had a cosmic origin.
meteor: Careful observers noticed that the radiant, as the point is called, moved with the stars, staying in the constellation Leo.
meteor: With Giovanni Schiaparelli's success in connecting the Leonids (as they are called) with comet Tempel-Tuttle, the cosmic origin of meteors was firmly established.
meteor: It also generates high fireball rates in the early evening, increasing chances of eyewitness reports.
meteor: Silliman believed the meteor had a cosmic origin, but meteors did not attract much attention from astronomers until the spectacular meteor storm of November 1833.
meteor: Most meteors glow for about a second.
meteor: Another rare phenomenon is a meteor procession, where the meteor breaks up into several fireballs traveling nearly parallel to the surface of Earth.
meteor: The video record suggests that the Peekskill meteorite had several companions over a wide area.
meteor: Eccles Observatory located 2,930 m (9,610 ft) above sea level recorded a movie of the passage of the object to the north.
meteor: Most meteoroids burn up when they enter the atmosphere.
meteor: Similar sounds have also been reported during intense displays of Earth's auroras.
meteor: Astronomers often use "bolide" to identify an exceptionally bright fireball, particularly one that explodes in a meteor air burst.
meteor: This is above the Dugway Proving Grounds, a closed Army testing base.
meteor: The gases include vaporised meteoroid material and atmospheric gases that heat up when the meteoroid passes through the atmosphere.
meteor: Meteor dust particles can persist in the atmosphere for up to several months.
meteor: Eyewitness accounts indicate the fireball entry of the Peekskill meteorite started over West Virginia at 23:48 UT (±1 min).
meteor: An object trail continued northward after the fireball.
meteor: People all across the eastern United States saw thousands of meteors, radiating from a single point in the sky.
meteor: If the magnitude of a bolide reaches −17 or brighter it is known as a superbolide.
meteor: The entry of meteoroids into Earth's atmosphere produces three main effects: ionization of atmospheric molecules, dust that the meteoroid sheds, and the sound of passage.
meteor: They usually disintegrate at altitudes of 50 to 95 km (31 to 59 mi).
meteor: Newton's more thorough historical work led to a refined prediction of 1866, which proved correct.
meteor: This was thought to be caused by an asteroid approximately 10 meters (33 feet) in diameter.
meteor: No injuries were reported.
meteor: The shock from the final breakup triggered seven seismological stations in northern Utah.
meteor: The fireball, which traveled in a northeasterly direction, had a pronounced greenish colour, and attained an estimated peak visual magnitude of −13.
meteor: The frequency of fireball sightings increases by about 10–30% during the weeks of vernal equinox.
meteor: A European Fireball Network and a NASA All-sky Fireball Network detect and track many fireballs.
meteor: The root word meteor comes from the Greek μετεωρίτης (meteōrítēs), meaning "high in the air".
meteor: Over 1,500 people were injured, mostly by glass from shattered windows caused by the air burst approximately 25 to 30 km (15.5 to 18.6 mi) above the environs of Chelyabinsk, Russia on 15 February 2013.
meteor: Meteoroid sizes can be calculated from their mass and density which, in turn, can be estimated from the observed meteor trajectory in the upper atmosphere.
meteor: This definition corrects for the greater distance between an observer and a meteor near the horizon.
meteor: Others have pointed out that during this period the ecliptic is (in the northern hemisphere) high in the sky in the late afternoon and early evening.
meteor: Meteors have roughly a fifty percent chance of a daylight (or near daylight) collision with Earth.
meteor: This explains a part, but perhaps not all of the seasonal variation.
meteor: It traveled east to west ending its flight somewhere near Wellsville, Missouri.
meteor: This means that fireball radiants with an asteroidal source are high in the sky (facilitating relatively high rates) at the moment the meteoroids "catch up" with Earth, coming from behind going in the same direction as Earth.
meteor: At no less than one minute and up to at least three minutes after the object peaked in intensity (depending on distance from trail), a large concussive blast was heard that shattered windows and set-off car alarms, which was followed by a number of smaller explosions.
meteor: They are sometimes called detonating fireballs.
meteor: Research is in progress for mapping the orbits of the meteors to gain a better understanding of the phenomenon.
meteor: It defines a fireball as a meteor that would have at least magnitude of −3 if seen at zenith.
meteor: Theories on the generation of these sounds may partially explain them.
meteor: The visible light produced by a meteor may take on various hues, depending on the chemical composition of the meteoroid, and the speed of its movement through the atmosphere.
meteor: 2009 – Southwestern US
A large bolide was reported on 18 November 2009, over southeastern California, northern Arizona, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho and Colorado.
meteor: The atmospheric velocities of meteors result from the movement of Earth around the Sun at about 30 km/s (67,000 mph; 110,000 km/h), the orbital speeds of meteoroids, and the gravity well of Earth.
meteor: It may also be used to mean a fireball which creates audible sounds.
meteor: Although this phenomenon has been known for quite some time, the reason behind the anomaly is not fully understood by scientists.
meteor: Larger fragments fall further down the strewn field.
meteor: This proposed mechanism, although proven plausible by laboratory work, remains unsupported by corresponding measurements in the field.
meteor: The companions are unlikely to be recovered in the hilly, wooded terrain in the vicinity of Peekskill.
meteor: Meteoroids or their fragments enter a phase called dark flight after deceleration to terminal velocity when they are no longer emitting visible light.
meteor: Meteors become visible between about 75 to 120 km (47 to 75 mi) above Earth.
meteor: Before that, they were seen in the West as an atmospheric phenomenon, like lightning, and were not connected with strange stories of rocks falling from the sky.
meteor: 1992 – Peekskill, New York
The Peekskill Meteorite was recorded on October 9, 1992 by at least 16 independent videographers.
meteor: For example, scientists at NASA suggested that the turbulent ionized wake of a meteor interacts with Earth's magnetic field, generating pulses of radio waves.
meteor: A fireball is a brighter-than-usual meteor which can be also seen during daylight.
meteor: As layers of the meteoroid abrade and ionize, the colour of the light emitted may change according to the layering of minerals.
meteor: Most meteoroids that cause meteors are about the size of a grain of sand, i.e.
meteor: In 1807, Yale University chemistry professor Benjamin Silliman investigated a meteorite that fell in Weston, Connecticut.
meteor: This causes relatively low relative speeds and from this low entry speeds, which facilitates survival of meteorites.
meteor: The International Astronomical Union (IAU) defines a fireball as "a meteor brighter than any of the planets" (apparent magnitude −4 or greater).
meteor: Meteors typically occur in the mesosphere at altitudes from 76–100 kilometres (47–62 miles).
meteor: The fireball contained an estimated energy of 50 kilotons of TNT, or about twice the Nagasaki atomic bomb.
meteor: Sound recordings made under controlled conditions in Mongolia in 1998 support the contention that the sounds are real.
meteor: Each time a comet swings by the Sun in its orbit, some of its ice vaporizes and a certain amount of meteoroids are shed.
meteor: For example, a meteor of magnitude −1 at 5 degrees above the horizon would be classified as a fireball because, if the observer had been directly below the meteor, it would have appeared as magnitude −6.
meteor: Such an event happened in broad daylight over North America in 1972.
meteor: Meteor radars can measure atmospheric density and winds by measuring the decay rate and Doppler shift of a meteor trail.
meteor: When radio waves are bounced off these trails, it is called meteor burst communications.
meteor: Colours of meteors depend on the relative influence of the metallic content of the meteoroid versus the superheated air plasma, which its passage engenders:
meteor: (Also see Bolide.)
meteor: The International Meteor Organization (an amateur organization that studies meteors) has a more rigid definition.
meteor: 2009 – Bone, Indonesia
A large fireball was observed in the skies near Bone, Sulawesi, Indonesia on October 8, 2009.
meteor: As the trail dissipates, megawatts of electromagnetic power could be released, with a peak in the power spectrum at audio frequencies.
meteor: During a luminous flight time that exceeded 40 seconds the fireball covered a ground path of some 430 to 500 mi (700 to 800 km).
meteor: One meteorite recovered at Peekskill, New York, for which the event and object gained their name, had a mass of 27 lb (12.4 kg) and was subsequently identified as an H6 monomict breccia meteorite.
meteor: Occasionally, as with the Leonid meteor shower of 2001, "crackling", "swishing", or "hissing" sounds have been reported, occurring at the same instant as a meteor flare.
meteor: Comets can produce debris by water vapor drag, as demonstrated by Fred Whipple in 1951, and by breakup.
meteor: There are several thousand fireballs a day, but most go unnoticed because most occur over the ocean and half occur during daytime.
meteor: Dark flight starts when they decelerate to about 2–4 km/s (4,500–8,900 mph; 1.2–2.5 mi/s; 7,200–14,400 km/h).
meteor: Fireballs reaching apparent magnitude −14 or brighter are called bolides.
meteor: These particles might affect climate, both by scattering electromagnetic radiation and by catalyzing chemical reactions in the upper atmosphere.
meteor: Still, they remain an atmospheric phenomenon and retain their name "meteor" from the Greek word for "atmospheric".
meteor: It was the largest natural object known to have entered Earth's atmosphere since the Tunguska event in 1908.
meteor: During the entry of a meteoroid or asteroid into the upper atmosphere, an ionization trail is created, where the air molecules are ionized by the passage of the meteor.
meteor: Even meteorite falls are more common during the northern hemisphere's spring season.
meteor: The seismic data yielded a terminal location of the object at 40.286 N, −113.191 W, altitude 27 kilometers (17 miles; 89,000 feet).
