modern_art: Although modern sculpture and architecture are reckoned to have emerged at the end of the 19th century, the beginnings of modern painting can be located earlier.
modern_art: Modern art was introduced to the United States with the Armory Show in 1913 and through European artists who moved to the U.S.
modern_art: World War I brought an end to this phase but indicated the beginning of many anti-art movements, such as the in Zürich and Berlin emerging Dada, including the work of Emmy Hennings, Hannah Höch, Hugo Ball and Marcel Duchamp, and of Surrealism.
modern_art: Painting assumed renewed importance in the 1980s and 1990s, as evidenced by the rise of neo-expressionism and the revival of figurative painting.
modern_art: Modern art begins with the post-impressionist painters like Vincent van Gogh, Paul Cézanne, Paul Gauguin, Georges Seurat and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.
modern_art: More recent artistic production is often called contemporary art or Postmodern art.
modern_art: Giorgio de Chirico moved to Paris in July 1911, where he joined his brother Andrea (the poet and painter known as Alberto Savinio).
modern_art: A tendency away from the narrative, which was characteristic of the traditional arts, toward abstraction is characteristic of much modern art.
modern_art: The date perhaps most commonly identified as marking the birth of modern art as a movement is 1863, the year that Édouard Manet showed his painting Le déjeuner sur l'herbe in the Salon des Refusés in Paris.
modern_art: Soviet art – Aleksandr Deyneka, Aleksandr Gerasimov, Ilya Kabakov, Komar & Melamid, Alexandr Zhdanov, Leonid Sokov
Spatialism – Lucio Fontana
Video art – Nam June Paik, Wolf Vostell, Joseph Beuys, Bill Viola, Hans Breder
Visionary art – Ernst Fuchs, Paul Laffoley, Michael Bowen
modern_art: The School of Paris, centered in Montparnasse, flourished between the two world wars.
modern_art: Modern art includes artistic work produced during the period extending roughly from the 1860s to the 1970s, and denotes the styles and philosophies of the art produced during that era.
modern_art: Matisse's two versions of The Dance signified a key point in his career and the development of modern painting.
modern_art: In the late 1960s and the 1970s, Land art, performance art, conceptual art, and other new art forms attracted the attention of curators and critics, at the expense of more traditional media.
modern_art: Earlier dates have also been proposed, among them 1855 (the year Gustave Courbet exhibited The Artist's Studio) and 1784 (the year Jacques-Louis David completed his painting The Oath of the Horatii).
modern_art: At the start of 20th-century Western painting, and initially influenced by Toulouse-Lautrec, Gauguin and other late-19th-century innovators, Pablo Picasso made his first Cubist paintings.
modern_art: Harvard Arnason: "Each of these dates has significance for the development of modern art, but none categorically marks a completely new beginning ....
modern_art: During the years between 1910 and the end of World War I and after the heyday of cubism, several movements emerged in Paris.
modern_art: became the focal point of new artistic movements.
modern_art: The advocates of realism stood against the idealism of the tradition-bound academic art that enjoyed public and official favor.
modern_art: The style was adopted by artists in different nations, in preference to a "national" style.
modern_art: Futurism took off in Italy a couple years before World War I with the publication of Filippo Tommaso Marinetti's Futurist Manifesto.
modern_art: Benedetta Cappa Marinetti, wife of Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, created the second wave of the artistic movement started by her husband.
modern_art: "Largely thanks to Benedetta, her husband F.T.
modern_art: Song of Love (1914) is one of the most famous works by de Chirico and is an early example of the surrealist style, though it was painted ten years before the movement was "founded" by André Breton in 1924.
modern_art: Francisco Goya is considered by many as the Father of Modern Painting without being a Modernist himself, a fact of art history that later painters associated with Modernism as a style, acknowledge him as an influence.
modern_art: Through his brother, he met Pierre Laprade, a member of the jury at the Salon d'Automne where he exhibited three of his dreamlike works: Enigma of the Oracle, Enigma of an Afternoon and Self-Portrait.
modern_art: In 1913, he exhibited his work at the Salon des Indépendants and Salon d'Automne, and his work was noticed by Pablo Picasso, Guillaume Apollinaire, and several others.
modern_art: Modern artists experimented with new ways of seeing and with fresh ideas about the nature of materials and functions of art.
modern_art: Picasso based these works on Cézanne's idea that all depiction of nature can be reduced to three solids: cube, sphere and cone.
modern_art: Synthetic cubism is characterized by the introduction of different textures, surfaces, collage elements, papier collé and a large variety of merged subject matter.
modern_art: Towards the end of the 20th century, many artists and architects started questioning the idea of "the modern" and created typically Postmodern works.
modern_art: The Impressionists argued that people do not see objects but only the light that they reflect, and therefore painters should paint in natural light (en plein air) rather than in studios and should capture the effects of light in their work.
modern_art: during World War I.
modern_art: The notion of modern art is closely related to Modernism.
modern_art: Between 1905 and 1911 German Expressionism emerged in Dresden and Munich with artists like Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Wassily Kandinsky, Franz Marc, Paul Klee and August Macke.
modern_art: A few years later, in 1911, a like-minded group of young artists formed Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) in Munich.
modern_art: Among their members were Kandinsky, Franz Marc, Paul Klee, and August Macke.
modern_art: There were official, government-sponsored painters' unions, while governments regularly held public exhibitions of new fine and decorative arts.
modern_art: The 1950s and 1960s saw the emergence of Abstract Expressionism, Color field painting, Conceptual artists of Art & Language, Pop art, Op art, Hard-edge painting, Minimal art, Lyrical Abstraction, Fluxus, Happening, video art, Postminimalism, Photorealism and various other movements.
modern_art: Larger installations and performances became widespread.
modern_art: Impressionist artists formed a group, Société Anonyme Coopérative des Artistes Peintres, Sculpteurs, Graveurs ("Association of Painters, Sculptors, and Engravers") which, despite internal tensions, mounted a series of independent exhibitions.
modern_art: In the words of art historian H.
modern_art: The modern art critic Clement Greenberg, for instance, called Immanuel Kant "the first real Modernist" but also drew a distinction: "The Enlightenment criticized from the outside ...
modern_art: Tate Modern
The Museum of Modern Art
Modern artists and art
A TIME Archives Collection of Modern Art's perception (archived 2 September 2010)
National Gallery of Modern Art – Govt.
modern_art: Analytic cubism, the first clear manifestation of cubism, was followed by Synthetic cubism, practiced by Braque, Picasso, Fernand Léger, Juan Gris, Albert Gleizes, Marcel Duchamp and several other artists into the 1920s.
modern_art: In 1905, a group of four German artists, led by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, formed Die Brücke (The Bridge) in the city of Dresden.
modern_art: The term is usually associated with art in which the traditions of the past have been thrown aside in a spirit of experimentation.
modern_art: This gave rise to what art historian Ernst Gombrich called a "self-consciousness that made people select the style of their building as one selects the pattern of a wallpaper."
The pioneers of modern art were Romantics, Realists and Impressionists.
modern_art: The most successful painters of the day worked either through commissions or through large public exhibitions of their work.
modern_art: Picasso dramatically created a new and radical picture depicting a raw and primitive brothel scene with five prostitutes, violently painted women, reminiscent of African tribal masks and his new Cubist inventions.
modern_art: By the end of the 1970s, when cultural critics began speaking of "the end of painting" (the title of a provocative essay written in 1981 by Douglas Crimp), new media art had become a category in itself, with a growing number of artists experimenting with technological means such as video art.
modern_art: Analytic cubism was jointly developed by Picasso and Georges Braque, exemplified by Violin and Candlestick, Paris, from about 1908 through 1912.
modern_art: These factors established the view that it was a "movement." These traits—establishment of a working method integral to the art, the establishment of a movement or visible active core of support, and international adoption—would be repeated by artistic movements in the Modern period in art.
modern_art: By the late 19th century, additional movements which were to be influential in modern art had begun to emerge: Post-Impressionism and Symbolism.
modern_art: The name came from Wassily Kandinsky's Der Blaue Reiter painting of 1903.
modern_art: Modernism criticizes from the inside." The French Revolution of 1789 uprooted assumptions and institutions that had for centuries been accepted with little question and accustomed the public to vigorous political and social debate.
modern_art: Among the movements that flowered in the first decade of the 20th century were Fauvism, Cubism, Expressionism, and Futurism.
modern_art: A gradual metamorphosis took place in the course of a hundred years."
The strands of thought that eventually led to modern art can be traced back to the Enlightenment.
modern_art: These artists were essential to modern art's development.
modern_art: His compelling and mysterious paintings are considered instrumental to the early beginnings of Surrealism.
modern_art: It reflected Matisse's incipient fascination with primitive art: the intense warm color of the figures against the cool blue-green background and the rhythmical succession of the dancing nudes convey the feelings of emotional liberation and hedonism.
modern_art: Artist groups like de Stijl and Bauhaus developed new ideas about the interrelation of the arts, architecture, design, and art education.
modern_art: However, the term "Expressionism" did not firmly establish itself until 1913.
modern_art: This was arguably the founding organization for the German Expressionist movement, though they did not use the word itself.
