monarchy: President Jean-Bédel Bokassa of the Central African Republic declared himself Emperor of the Central African Empire in 1976.
monarchy: Other kingdoms (such as the Netherlands in 1983, Norway in 1990, Belgium in 1991, Denmark in 2009, and Luxembourg in 2011) have since followed suit.
monarchy: The monarchy was subsequently restored in the peace agreement of 1993.
monarchy: As of 2025, forty-three sovereign nations in the world have a monarch, including fifteen Commonwealth realms that share King Charles III as their head of state.
monarchy: The prince can appoint or dismiss any elective member or government employee.
monarchy: Currently, there are several countries in the world with a monarch as head of state.
monarchy: In most current constitutional monarchies, the monarch is mainly a ceremonial figurehead symbol of national unity and state continuity.
monarchy: It comes from Old French monarchie (13th century), meaning "sovereignty" or "absolute power," which was borrowed from Late Latin monarchia and ultimately from Greek monarkhia, "absolute rule," literally "ruling of one," from monos ("alone") and arkhein ("to rule").
monarchy: The Constitutional Monarchy Association in the UK
"Monarchy" .
monarchy: Other hereditary systems of succession included tanistry, which is semi-elective and gives weight to merit and Agnatic seniority.
monarchy: The al-Assad family, which ruled Syria from 1971 to 2024, was similarly categorised as such.
monarchy: However, this is not required by the constitution, and, for this reason, Samoa can be considered a parliamentary republic rather than a constitutional monarchy.
monarchy: In New Zealand, the Maori King, head of the Kingitanga Movement, is elected by a council of Maori elders at the funeral of their predecessor, which is also where their coronation takes place.
monarchy: In some monarchies, such as Saudi Arabia, succession to the throne first passes to the monarch's next eldest brother, and only after that to the monarch's children (agnatic seniority).
monarchy: After their defeat in the Second World War, Japan was forced into limiting the power of the Emperor, giving almost all of it to the National Diet.
monarchy: The prospect of retaining the ruler appeals to opposition groups who value both democracy and stability, but it also has implications for their ability to organize and sustain mass protest."
monarchy: Yuan Shikai, the first formal President of the Republic of China, crowned himself Emperor of the short-lived "Empire of China" a few years after the Republic of China was founded.
monarchy: Historically there have also been monarchical republics, such as the Dutch Republic, and republican monarchies, such as the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and Sweden during the Age of Liberty (1719–1772).
monarchy: The Pope of the Roman Catholic Church (who rules as Sovereign of the Vatican City State) is elected for life by the College of Cardinals.
monarchy: The term monarchy dates back to the mid-14th century, when it referred to a kingdom or territory ruled by a monarch, and by the late 14th century it also meant rule by a single person with supreme power.
monarchy: In a constitutional monarchy, the monarch's power is subject to a constitution.
monarchy: The authors argue that monarchy declined as an efficient regime type with innovations in communications and transportation technology, as the efficiency of monarchy relative to other regime types declined.
monarchy: Thailand transitioned into a constitutional monarchy over the course of the 20th century.
monarchy: For example, Pepin the Short (father of Charlemagne) was elected King of the Franks by an assembly of Frankish leading men; nobleman Stanisław August Poniatowski of Poland was an elected king, as was Frederick I of Denmark.
monarchy: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
monarchy: Brunei, Oman, and Saudi Arabia are absolute monarchies; Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar and United Arab Emirates are classified as mixed, meaning there are representative bodies but the monarch retains most of his powers.
monarchy: Before primogeniture was enshrined in European law and tradition, kings would often secure the succession by having their successor (usually their eldest son) crowned during their own lifetime, so for a time there would be two kings in coregency—a senior king and a junior king.
monarchy: In some parts of the world, chiefdoms became monarchies.
monarchy: In an elective monarchy, monarchs are elected or appointed by somebody (an electoral college) for life or a defined period, but then reign like any other monarch.
monarchy: The Principality of Liechtenstein and the Principality of Monaco are European semi-constitutional monarchies.
monarchy: The monarch in classical antiquity is often identified as "king" or "ruler" (translating archon, basileus, rex, tyrannos, etc.) or as "queen" (basilinna, basilissa, basileia or basilis; regina).
monarchy: After reaching a peak in the middle of the 19th century, the proportion of monarchies in the world has steadily declined.
monarchy: Historically usurpation has usually happened via a coup or by fraudulently claiming be a descendant of a ruler that they may or may not be related to.
monarchy: In an elective monarchy, monarchs are elected or appointed by some body (an electoral college) for life or a defined period.
monarchy: Examples were Henry the Young King of England and the early Direct Capetians in France.
monarchy: All of the Heads of the Maori King Movement have been descendants of the first Maori King, Potatau Te Wherowhero, who was elected and became King in June 1858.
monarchy: Jordan, Malaysia, and Morocco are constitutional monarchies.
monarchy: In antiquity, some monarchies were abolished in favour of such assemblies in Rome (Roman Republic, 509 BCE), and Athens (Athenian democracy, 500 BCE).
monarchy: The term "parliamentary monarchy" may be used to differentiate from semi-constitutional monarchies.
monarchy: Historical examples of elective monarchy are the Holy Roman Emperors (chosen by prince-electors but often coming from the same dynasty) and the free election of kings of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.
monarchy: Furthermore, Andorra has a unique constitutional arrangement as one of its heads of state is the President of the French Republic in the form of a Co-Prince.
monarchy: Monarchies have historically been a common form of government.
monarchy: Some monarchies are not hereditary.
monarchy: as in the case of the privilegium maius deed) or new monarchies altogether (e.g.
monarchy: by Hong Xiuquan and his Taiping Heavenly Kingdom).
monarchy: A monarchy is a hereditary form of government in which political power is legally passed on to the family members of the monarch, a head of state who rules for life.
monarchy: With the rise of republicanism, a diverse division between republicanism developed in the 19th-century politics (such as anti-monarchist radicalism) and conservative or even reactionary monarchism.
monarchy: Bhutan made the change in 2008.
monarchy: This usually means that the heir to the throne is known well in advance of becoming monarch to ensure a smooth succession.
monarchy: The United Kingdom adopted absolute (equal) primogeniture (subject to the claims of existing heirs) on April 25, 2013, following agreement by the prime ministers of the sixteen Commonwealth Realms at the 22nd Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting.
monarchy: They fall roughly into the following categories:
monarchy: According to Herodotus, this was done by someone impersonating Smerdis in order to seize the throne of Cyrus the Great after his death.
monarchy: In the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, the Prince and Grand Master is elected for life tenure by the Council Complete of State from within its members.
monarchy: A self-proclaimed monarchy is established when a person claims the monarchy without any historical ties to a previous dynasty.
monarchy: In an absolute monarchy, the monarch rules with absolute power over the state and government.
monarchy: They evolved out of the British Empire into fully independent states within the Commonwealth of Nations that retain the King as head of state.
monarchy: This is especially employed to legitimize and settle disputed successions, changes in ways of succession, status of a monarch (e.g.
monarchy: While most monarchs in history have been male, many female monarchs also have reigned.
monarchy: Many are so-called crowned republics, surviving particularly in small states.
monarchy: Polybius originally understood monarchy as a component of republics, but since antiquity monarchy has contrasted with forms of republic, where executive power is wielded by free citizens and their assemblies.
monarchy: Republics replaced many monarchies, notably at the end of World War I and World War II.
monarchy: Some of the oldest recorded and evidenced monarchies were those of Narmer, Pharaoh of Ancient Egypt c.
monarchy: This complete exclusion of females from dynastic succession is commonly referred to as application of the Salic law.
monarchy: This was originally intended to provide a check on political power.
monarchy: Nearly half of all independent states at the start of the 19th century were monarchies.
monarchy: Other than that, there is a range of sub-national monarchical entities.
monarchy: Polybius identified monarchy as one of three "benign" basic forms of government (monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy), opposed to the three "malignant" basic forms of government (tyranny, oligarchy, and ochlocracy).
monarchy: Semi-constitutional monarchies exhibit fewer parliamentary powers or simply monarchs with more authority.
monarchy: Different systems of hereditary succession have been used, such as proximity of blood, primogeniture, and agnatic seniority (Salic law).
monarchy: Most monarchs, both historically and in the modern-day, have been born and brought up within a royal family, the centre of the royal household and court.
monarchy: Today forty-three sovereign nations in the world have a monarch, including fifteen Commonwealth realms that have Charles III as the head of state.
monarchy: In 1980, Sweden became the first monarchy to declare equal (full cognatic) primogeniture, meaning that the eldest child of the monarch, whether female or male, ascends to the throne.
monarchy: The 4th-century BCE Hindu text Arthasastra laid out the ethics of monarchism.
monarchy: In Malaysia, the federal king, called the Yang di-Pertuan Agong or Paramount Ruler, is elected for a five-year term from among and by the hereditary rulers (mostly sultans) of nine of the federation's constitutive states, all on the Malay peninsula.
monarchy: Since then advocacy of the abolition of a monarchy or respectively of republics has been called republicanism, while the advocacy of monarchies is called monarchism.
monarchy: In some nations, however, such as Morocco, Qatar, Liechtenstein, and Thailand, the hereditary monarch has more political influence than any other single source of authority in the state.
monarchy: Monarchies are associated with hereditary reign, in which monarchs reign for life and the responsibilities and power of the position pass to their child or another member of their family when they die.
monarchy: Growing up in a royal family (called a dynasty when it continues for several generations), future monarchs are often trained for their expected future responsibilities as monarch.
monarchy: The similar form of societal hierarchy known as chiefdom or tribal kingship is prehistoric.
monarchy: Most modern monarchs are constitutional monarchs, who retain a unique legal and ceremonial role but exercise limited or no political power under a constitution.
monarchy: Most of the modern monarchies are constitutional monarchies, retaining under a constitution unique legal and ceremonial roles for monarchs exercising limited or no political power, similar to heads of state in a parliamentary republic.
monarchy: From the earliest records, monarchs could be directly hereditary, while others were elected from among eligible members.
monarchy: For example, the 2003 Constitution referendum gave the Prince of Liechtenstein the power to veto any law that the Landtag (parliament) proposes, while the Landtag can veto any law that the Prince tries to pass.
monarchy: The term "queen regnant" refers to a ruling monarch, while "queen consort" refers to the wife of a reigning king.
monarchy: In 2013, Clause 2 of Article 10 of the new edited Ten Fundamental Principles of the Korean Workers' Party states that the party and revolution must be carried "eternally" by the "Baekdu (Kim's) bloodline".
monarchy: The United Arab Emirates also chooses its federal leaders from among emirs of the federated states.
monarchy: Four elective monarchies exist today: Cambodia, Malaysia and the United Arab Emirates are 20th-century creations, while one (the papacy) is ancient.
monarchy: The order of succession is usually affected by rules on gender.
monarchy: Chiefdoms provided the concept of state formation, which started with civilizations such as Mesopotamia, Ancient Egypt and the Indus Valley civilization.
monarchy: The Ngwenyama, however, is considered the administrative head of state, while the Ndlovukati is considered the spiritual and national head of state, a position which more or less has become symbolic in recent years.
monarchy: through regional assemblies (such as the Icelandic Commonwealth, the Swiss Landsgemeinde and later Tagsatzung, and the High Medieval communal movement linked to the rise of medieval town privileges) and by modern anti-monarchism e.g.
monarchy: The ruling Kim family in North Korea (Kim Il Sung, Kim Jong Il and Kim Jong Un) has been described as a de facto absolute monarchy or a "hereditary dictatorship".
monarchy: According to a 2020 study, monarchy arose as a system of governance because of an efficiency in governing large populations and expansive territories during periods when coordinating such populations was difficult.
monarchy: 3100 BCE, and Enmebaragesi, a Sumerian King of Kish c.
monarchy: as in the case of the coronation of Napoleon I).
monarchy: On June 21, 2017, King Salman of Saudi Arabia revolted against this style of monarchy and elected his son to inherit the throne.
monarchy: In the following 20th century many countries abolished the monarchy and became republics, especially in the wake of World War I and World War II.
monarchy: At the time the constitution was adopted, it was anticipated that future heads of state would be chosen from among the four Tama a 'Aiga "royal" paramount chiefs.
monarchy: Another variation on agnatic primogeniture was the so-called semi-Salic law, or "agnatic-cognatic primogeniture", which allowed women to succeed only at the extinction of all the male descendants in the male line of the particular legislator.
monarchy: There are conventionally two types of monarchy: absolute monarchy and constitutional monarchy.
monarchy: In cases of succession challenges, it can be instrumental for pretenders to secure or install legitimacy through the above, for example proof of accession like insignia, through treaties or a claim of a divine mandate to rule (e.g.
monarchy: Andorra is unique among all existing monarchies, as it is a diarchy, with the co-princes being shared by the president of France and the bishop of Urgell.
monarchy: However, each member of the Samoan parliament, except for the two seats reserved for non-Samoans, must be a matai, a member of the hereditary political system known as the Faʻamatai.
monarchy: Primogeniture, in which the eldest child of the monarch is first in line to become monarch, is the most common system in hereditary monarchy.
monarchy: The prince of Monaco has simpler powers; he cannot appoint or dismiss any elective member or government employee to or from his or her post, but he can elect the minister of state, government council and judges.
monarchy: This though does not mean it is a de jure absolute monarchy, as the country's official name is the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
monarchy: In a hereditary monarchy, the position of monarch is inherited according to a statutory or customary order of succession, usually within one royal family tracing its origin through a historical dynasty or bloodline.
monarchy: Absolute monarchies, of which there are approximately twelve, are governed as autocracies.
monarchy: Japan has had a monarchy, an emperor, according to legend, since Emperor Jimmu (reigned 660–585 BCE), making it the world's oldest existing monarchy.
monarchy: Gallic and Germanic peoples also had elective monarchies.
monarchy: According to a 2023 study, monarchy has persisted as a regime type because it can accommodate demands for democratization better than other forms of autocratic rule: "Monarchies can democratize without destabilizing the leadership through transitioning to a democratic constitutional monarchy.
monarchy: Another way monarchs have historically gained royal power is by seizing it, either by force or other illegitimate measures.
monarchy: Cambodia had its own monarchy after independence from the French colonial empire, but it was deposed after the Khmer Rouge came into power.
monarchy: Rule may be hereditary in practice without being considered a monarchy: there have been some family dictatorships (and also political families) in many democracies.
monarchy: In Samoa, the position of head of state is described in Part III of the 1960 Samoan constitution.
monarchy: By the 17th century, monarchy was challenged by evolving parliamentarism e.g.
monarchy: Sometimes, however, primogeniture can operate through the female line.
monarchy: While monarchs gain their power depending on specific succession laws, they can also gain their authority via election.
monarchy: The legitimacy and authorities of monarchs are often proclaimed and recognized through occupying and being invested with insignia, seats, deeds and titles, like in the course of coronations.
monarchy: As such republics have become the opposing and alternative form of government to monarchy, despite some having seen infringements through lifelong or even hereditary heads of state, such as in North Korea.
monarchy: of the temporary overthrow of the English monarchy by the Parliament of England in 1649, the American Revolution of 1776 and the French Revolution of 1789.
monarchy: There is no popular vote involved in elective monarchies, as the elective body usually consists of a small number of eligible people.
