motivation: For example, if the performance is worse than expected, they may lower their goals.
motivation: Components are aspects that different motivational states have in common.
motivation: Self-determination theorists, such as Edward Deci and Richard Ryan, distinguish between autonomous and controlled motivation.
motivation: In order to predict the behavior of economic actors, it is often assumed that they act rationally.
motivation: Another perspective emphasizes the multitude of unconscious and subconscious factors responsible.
motivation: Motivation is also relevant in the field of politics.
motivation: For example, workers from economically advanced countries may respond better to higher-order goals like self-actualization while the fulfillment of more basic needs tends to be more central for workers from less economically developed countries.
motivation: The direction of a motivational state is shaped by the goal it aims to achieve.
motivation: Motivation is pivotal in engaging in these practices.
motivation: The intensity of motivation corresponds to how much energy someone is willing to invest into a particular task.
motivation: Teachers who are patient and supportive can encourage interaction by interpreting mistakes as learning opportunities.
motivation: For example, it has been suggested that in cases of rational deliberation, it may be possible to act against one's strongest motive.
motivation: Human motivation is sometimes contrasted with animal motivation.
motivation: Expectancy theorists understand the expected results in terms of three factors: expectancy, instrumentality, and valence.
motivation: It refers to reasons that the accused had for committing a crime.
motivation: According to a 2024 Gallup report, 8.9 trillion dollars were lost in global GDP due to low engagement.
motivation: Motivational states explain why people or animals initiate, continue, or terminate a certain behavior at a particular time.
motivation: Motivation is often divided into two phases: in the first phase, the individual establishes a goal, while in the second phase, they attempt to reach this goal.
motivation: This can include direct questions like "how motivated are you?" but may also inquire about additional factors such as goals, feelings, and effort invested in a particular activity.
motivation: The absence of a motive can be used as evidence to put the accused's involvement in the crime into doubt.
motivation: For example, rational choice theory, a fundamental theory in economics, postulates that individuals are motivated by self-interest and aim to maximize their utility, which guides economic behavior like consumption choices.
motivation: Motivation tends to be reinforced for activities in which a person can positively relate to others, receives approval, and can reach out for help.
motivation: Player motivation often revolves around completing certain objectives, like solving a puzzle, beating an enemy, or exploring the game world.
motivation: An example of achievement motivation in sports is a person who challenges stronger opponents in an attempt to get better.
motivation: Motivational states have different degrees of strength.
motivation: Intent is the mental state of the defendant and belongs to mens rea.
motivation: They examine how people select goals and the means to achieve them.
motivation: An example of unconscious motivation is a scientist who believes that their research effort is a pure expression of their altruistic desire to benefit science while their true motive is an unacknowledged need for fame.
motivation: Motivation contrasts with amotivation (also known as avolition) which is an absence of interest.
motivation: It is a complex phenomenon and its precise definition is disputed.
motivation: For example, short-term motivation is central when responding to urgent problems while long-term motivation is a key factor in pursuing far-reaching objectives.
motivation: In the field of education, intrinsic motivation tends to result in high-quality learning.
motivation: An influential extension of Maslow's hierarchy of needs was proposed by Clayton Alderfer in the form of his ERG theory.
motivation: But if they are not aware of the poison then politeness may be their motivating reason to offer it.
motivation: Examples include the unacknowledged influences of past experiences, unresolved conflicts, hidden fears, and defense mechanisms.
motivation: Various factors influence work motivation.
motivation: It belongs to psychology and zoology.
motivation: Intensity is the strength of the state and affects whether the state is translated into action and how much effort is employed.
motivation: Studies on animal motivation tend to focus more on the role of external stimuli and instinctive responses while the role of free decisions and delayed gratification has a more prominent place when discussing human motivation.
motivation: In this field, rational behavior is understood as behavior that is in tune with self-interest while irrational behavior goes against self-interest.
motivation: For example, John Dewey and Abraham Maslow use a psychological perspective to understand motivation as a form of desire while Jackson Beatty and Charles Ransom Gallistel see it as a physical process akin to hunger and thirst.
motivation: They differ from each other based on the underlying mechanisms responsible for their manifestation, what goals are pursued, what temporal horizon they encompass, and who is intended to benefit.
motivation: They are also called secondary, psychological, social, or personal motives.
motivation: Motives are often used as evidence to demonstrate why the accused might have committed the crime and how they would benefit from it.
motivation: A further approach is to distinguish two parts of the planning: the first part consists in choosing a goal while the second part is about planning how to realize this goal.
motivation: If a state has a high degree then it is more likely to influence behavior than if it has a low degree.
motivation: For example, the presence of a strong extrinsic motivation, like a high monetary reward, can decrease intrinsic motivation.
motivation: Akrasia contrasts with enkrasia, which is a state where a person's motivation aligns with their beliefs.
motivation: This occurs when people engage in an activity because they are interested in the effects or the outcome of the activity rather than in the activity itself.
motivation: Negative emotions are associated with a more pessimistic outlook and tend to lead to the avoidance of bad outcomes.
motivation: This form of reward prediction is associated with several brain areas, like the orbitofrontal cortex, the anterior cingulate, and the basolateral amygdala.
motivation: Process theories discuss the cognitive, emotional, and decision-making processes that underlie human motivation.
motivation: A key idea of equity theory is that people are motivated to reduce perceived inequity.
motivation: It can be due to affective factors, when the person engages in the behavior because it feels good, or cognitive factors, when they see it as something good or meaningful.
motivation: In the case of intrinsic motivation, students are interested in the subject and the learning experience itself.
motivation: The quality of the resulting performance depends on the ability, effort, and motivation.
motivation: A motivational state is rational if it is based on a good reason.
motivation: Some psychologists define motivation as a temporary and reversible process.
motivation: Motivation contrasts with amotivation, which is a lack of interest in a certain activity or a resistance to it.
motivation: According to self-determination theory, the main factors influencing motivation are autonomy, competence, and connection.
motivation: External circumstances can also impact the motivation underlying unconscious behavior.
motivation: Through these associations, motivation can automatically arise when the signals are present.
motivation: Some theorists hold that a desire to do something is an essential part of all motivational states.
motivation: This implies that several steps or lower-level goals may have to be fulfilled to reach a higher-level goal.
motivation: Lower needs belong to the physiological level and are characterized as deficiency needs since they indicate some form of lack.
motivation: They state that lower needs have to be fulfilled before higher needs become activated.
motivation: Herzberg's Two-Factor Theory also analyzes motivation in terms of lower and higher needs.
motivation: The term, motivation, comes from the Latin term movere (to move).
motivation: Proper motivation is an influential factor for athletic success.
motivation: They tend to conceptualize human behavior in analogy to animal behavior.
motivation: For instance, two athletes engaging in the same training drill have the same direction but differ concerning the motivational intensity if one gives their best while the other only puts in minimal effort.
motivation: In video games, player motivation is what drives people to play a game and engage with its contents.
motivation: Cultural differences can have a significant impact on how to motivate workers.
motivation: The cause of akrasia is sometimes that a person gives in to temptations and is not able to resist them.
motivation: Its goal is to do things well and become better even in the absence of tangible external rewards.
motivation: However, this view is not generally accepted and it has been suggested that, at least in some cases, actions are motivated by other mental phenomena, like beliefs or rational deliberation.
motivation: There are important overlaps between the fields of animal and human motivation.
motivation: Examples include company policies, supervision, salary, and job security.
motivation: This is often emphasized by the idea that human agents act for reasons and are not mechanistically driven to follow their strongest impulse.
motivation: For example, if a cake is poisoned then this is a normative reason for the host not to offer it to their guests.
motivation: Both short-term and long-term motivation are relevant to achieving one's goals.
motivation: Another problem is that this view may lead to a form of determinism that denies the existence of free will.
motivation: More emphasis on the need of affiliation tends to be given in collectivist cultures in contrast to a focus on the need of achievement in individualist cultures.
motivation: Goal-setting theory holds that having clearly defined goals is one of the key factors of motivation.
motivation: Persistence is the long-term component of motivation and refers to how long an individual engages in an activity.
motivation: This can involve studying behavioral changes but may also include additional methods like measuring brain activity and skin conductance.
motivation: It is realized through practices that promote growth and improve different areas in one's life.
motivation: Externalists provide an alternative explanation by holding that additional mental states, like desires or emotions, are needed.
motivation: As a technical term, motive is distinguished from intent.
motivation: It includes the explicit recognition of goals and underlying values.
motivation: This theory predicts, for example, that if an aggressive behavior of a child is rewarded then this will reinforce the child's motivation for aggressive behavior in the future.
motivation: This way, they provide explanations of why an individual engages in one behavior rather than another, how much effort they invest, and how long they continue to strive toward a given goal.
motivation: Intrinsic motivation is often more highly regarded than extrinsic motivation.
motivation: The traditional discipline studying motivation is psychology.
motivation: In this case, the person has an insight into why the behavior is considered valuable.
motivation: Extrinsic motivation in the form of rewards and recognition also plays a key role in the learning process.
motivation: For example, to achieve the higher-level goal of writing a complete article, one needs to realize different lower-level goals, like writing different sections of the article.
motivation: It depends on motivation and high motivation is associated with high effort.
motivation: It concerns both smaller objectives within a part of the game as well as finishing the game as a whole.
motivation: Individuals in the state of amotivation feel apathy or lack the willingness to engage in a particular behavior.
motivation: This can go hand in hand with adjusting the effort invested in the activity.
motivation: The degree of intrinsic motivation is affected by various conditions, including a sense of autonomy and positive feedback from others.
motivation: Motivation plays a key role in economics since it is what drives individuals and organizations to make economic decisions and engage in economic activities.
motivation: The need for power is a longing to exert control over one's surroundings and wield influence over others.
motivation: It impacts how employees feel about their work, their level of determination, commitment, and overall job satisfaction.
motivation: The role of goals in motivation is sometimes paired with the claim that it leads to flexible behavior in contrast to blind reflexes or fixed stimulus-response patterns.
motivation: Herzberg applies it specifically to the workplace and distinguishes between lower-lever hygiene factors and higher-level motivators.
motivation: For instance, if a student does their homework because they are afraid of being punished by their parents then extrinsic motivation is responsible.
motivation: One of the responsibilities of educators and educational institutions is to establish a learning environment that fosters and sustains students' motivation to ensure effective learning.
motivation: An example is the effect of priming, in which an earlier stimulus influences the response to a later stimulus without the person's awareness of this influence.
motivation: In a slightly different sense, the word "motivation" can also refer to the act of motivating someone and to a reason or goal for doing something.
motivation: Some theorists understand the difference between intrinsic and extrinsic motivation as a spectrum rather than a clear dichotomy.
motivation: It also affects employee performance and overall business success.
motivation: They include affiliation, competition, personal interests, and self-actualization as well as desires for perfection, justice, beauty, and truth.
motivation: Another key aspect is how managers communicate and provide feedback.
motivation: Goal-setting is the phase in which the direction of motivation is determined.
motivation: Major debates in the academic literature concern to what extent motivation is innate or based on genetically determined instincts rather than learned through previous experience.
motivation: Conscious motivation is associated with the formulation of a goal and a plan to realize it as well as its controlled step-by-step execution.
motivation: There are different ways to do so and measure it.
motivation: For example, overly simplified and segmented jobs tend to result in decreased productivity and lower employee morale.
motivation: Lack of competence can decrease motivation by leading to frustration if one's efforts fail to succeed.
motivation: This often results in very long definitions by including many of the factors listed above.
motivation: Amotivation is closely related to akrasia.
motivation: It is further pertinent in the fields of personal development, health, and criminal law.
motivation: Students driven by extrinsic motivation seek external rewards, like good grades or peer recognition.
motivation: A goal is specific if it involves a clear objective, such as a quantifiable target one intends to reach rather than just trying to do one's best.
motivation: Some theorists use the term "effort" rather than "intensity" for this component.
motivation: It involves apathy and lack of activity in relation to a broad range of activities and is associated with incoherence, inability to concentrate, and memory disturbance.
motivation: Maslow theorised that humans have different kinds of needs and that those needs are responsible for motivation.
motivation: It is a complex discipline that relies on insights from fields like clinical, experimental, and comparative psychology.
motivation: The dopamine system plays a key role in learning which positive and negative outcomes are associated with a specific behavior and how certain signals, like environmental cues, are related to specific goals.
motivation: Intrinsic motivation plays a larger role for volunteers with key motivators being self-esteem, the desire to help others, career advancement, and self-improvement.
motivation: For example, a person may be motivated to undergo a painful root canal treatment because they conclude that it is a necessary thing to do even though they do not actively desire it.
motivation: Long-term motivation involves a sustained commitment to goals in a more distant future.
motivation: A closely related disagreement concerns the role of awareness and rationality.
motivation: A person in the state of akrasia believes that they should perform a certain action but cannot motivate themselves to do it.
motivation: It involves considering the reasons for and against different courses of action and then committing oneself to a goal one aims to achieve.
motivation: Motivators are more directly related to work itself.
motivation: The motivational persistence in relation to the chosen goal contrasts with flexibility on the level of the means: individuals may adjust their approach and try different strategies on the level of the means to reach a pursued end.
motivation: It is the objective in which they decide to invest their energy.
motivation: Many religions emphasize the importance of altruistic motivation as a component of religious practice.
motivation: They are also referred to as primary, physiological, or organic motives.
motivation: For example, Christianity sees selfless love and compassion as a way of realizing God's will and bringing about a better world.
motivation: Influential content theories are Maslow's hierarchy of needs, Frederick Herzberg's two-factor theory, and David McClelland's learned needs theory.
motivation: It is associated with genuine passion, creativity, a sense of purpose, and personal autonomy.
motivation: An example is a married person who is tempted to have a one-night stand.
motivation: Motivational states are characterized by the goal they aim for, as well as the intensity and duration of the effort devoted to the goal.
motivation: Personal development is a process of self-improvement aimed at enhancing one's skills, knowledge, talents, and overall well-being.
motivation: However, it is controversial whether this is always true.
motivation: Some theorists emphasize the role of the self in this process as the entity that plans, initiates, regulates, and evaluates behavior.
motivation: An addict who compulsively consumes drugs even though they know that it is not in their best self-interest is an example of akrasia.
motivation: Other theories allow for both biological and cognitive motivation and some put their main emphasis on cognitive motivation.
motivation: Lack of motivation can lead to decreased productivity due to complacency, disinterest, and absenteeism.
motivation: They are often seen as a higher or more refined form of motivation.
motivation: Motivation is an internal state that propels individuals to engage in goal-directed behavior.
motivation: There are different approaches to increasing employee motivation.
motivation: The most common approach is to rely on self-reports such as through questionnaires.
motivation: This tends to increase motivation since humans usually prefer to act in accordance with their wishes, values, and goals without being coerced by external forces.
motivation: For this reason, akrasia is also referred to as weakness of the will.
motivation: Another approach is based on external observation of the individual.
motivation: The components of motivation can be understood in analogy to the allocation of limited resources: direction, intensity, and persistence determine where to allocate energy, how much of it, and for how long.
motivation: Achievement motivation is the desire to overcome obstacles and strive for excellence.
motivation: Another example is the long-term motivation to stay healthy in contrast to the short-term motivation to smoke a cigarette.
motivation: Understanding different types of player motivation helps game designers make their games immersive and appealing to a wide audience.
motivation: Other definitions characterize motivation as a form of arousal that provides energy to direct and maintain behavior.
motivation: This means that higher needs, like esteem and self-actualization, are unable to provide full motivation while lower needs, like food and shelter, remain unfulfilled.
motivation: It is especially relevant to ensure long-term commitment and to follow through with one's plans.
motivation: According to this view, the feeding behavior of rats is based on motivation since they can learn to traverse through complicated mazes to satisfy their hunger, which is not the case for the stimulus-bound feeding behavior of flies.
motivation: Motivation is relevant to many fields.
motivation: It is often a more deliberative process that requires goal-setting and planning.
motivation: Commitment is a person's dedication to achieving a goal and includes an unwillingness to abandon or change the goal when meeting resistance.
motivation: This approach makes it possible to contrast motivation with phenomena like learning which bring about permanent behavioral changes.
motivation: Specific goals often affect motivation and performance positively by making it easier to plan and track progress.
motivation: For example, if a person associates having a certain type of food with a specific time of day then they may automatically feel motivated to eat this food when the time arrives.
motivation: It concerns both the long-term motivation needed to sustain progress and commitment over an extended period as well as the short-term motivation required to mobilize as much energy as possible for a high performance on the same day.
motivation: Examples are the hierarchy of needs, the two-factor theory, and the learned needs theory.
motivation: This belief can help people persevere through obstacles and remain motivated to reach challenging goals.
motivation: Some theories of human motivation see biological causes as the source of all motivation.
motivation: Buddhists emphasize the practice of loving-kindness toward all sentient beings as a means to eliminate suffering.
motivation: In a different sense, motivation also plays a role in justifying why convicted offenders should be punished.
motivation: This theory implies, for example, that increasing salary and job security may not be sufficient to fully motivate workers if their higher needs are not met.
motivation: It states that effective goals are specific and challenging.
motivation: This self-interest can take various forms, including immediate pleasure, career advancement, financial rewards, and gaining respect from others.
motivation: For effective action, it is usually relevant to have the right form of motivation on all three levels: to pursue an appropriate goal with the required intensity and persistence.
motivation: Proponents of this view hold that even apparently altruistic behavior is caused by egoistic motives.
motivation: The dynamics of motivation differ between paid work and volunteer work.
motivation: For example, Hinde and Alcock saw it as a transitory state that affects responsiveness to stimuli.
motivation: Major process theories are expectancy theory, equity theory, goal-setting theory, self-determination theory, and reinforcement theory.
motivation: A behavior can be motivated only by intrinsic motives, only by extrinsic motives, or by a combination of both.
motivation: This can be the case for impulsive behavior, for example, when a person spontaneously acts out of anger without reflecting on the consequences of their actions.
motivation: Early theories of motivation often assumed that conscious motivation is the primary form of motivation.
motivation: Some definitions stress the continuity between human and animal motivation, but others draw a clear distinction between the two.
motivation: This is linked to the idea that the more autonomous an activity is, the more it is associated with intrinsic motivation.
motivation: Reinforcement theory is based on behaviorism and explains motivation in relation to positive and negative outcomes of previous behavior.
motivation: It is often understood as a force that explains why people or other animals initiate, continue, or terminate a certain behavior at a particular time.
motivation: The individual has to muster the initiative to get started with the goal-directed behavior and stay committed even when faced with obstacles without giving in to distractions.
motivation: It is usually beneficial to have an organized classroom with few distractions.
motivation: However, they sometimes conflict with each other by supporting opposing courses of action.
motivation: They include the nature of the work and the associated responsibility as well as recognition and personal and professional growth opportunities.
motivation: For example, they may claim that people feel good about helping other people and that their egoistic desire to feel good is the true internal motivation behind the externally altruistic behavior.
motivation: An influential debate in moral philosophy centers around the question of whether moral judgments can directly provide moral motivation, as internalists claim.
motivation: Expectancy concerns the relation between effort and performance.
motivation: Stages or phases are temporal parts of how motivation unfolds over time, like the initial goal-setting stage in contrast to the following goal-striving stage.
motivation: Motivation science is a more recent field of inquiry focused on an integrative approach that tries to link insights from different subdisciplines.
motivation: For example, psychologist Barry J.
motivation: It investigates how motivation arises, which factors influence it, and what effects it has.
motivation: According to the deterrence theory of law, one key aspect of punishment for law violation is to motivate both the convicted individual and potential future wrongdoers to not engage in similar criminal behavior.
motivation: An ability is a power to perform an action, like the ability to walk or to write.
motivation: Its source lies in innate mechanisms that govern stimulus-response patterns.
motivation: Motivation is closely related to ability, effort, and action.
motivation: Short-term motivation is focused on achieving rewards immediately or in the near future.
motivation: It is associated with impulsive behavior.
motivation: They seek to understand how motivation arises and what causes and effects it has as well as the goals that commonly motivate people.
motivation: However, it can conflict with intrinsic motivation in some cases and may then hinder creativity.
motivation: Philosophy aims to clarify the nature of motivation and understand its relation to other concepts.
motivation: Goal-setting and goal-striving are usually understood as distinct stages but they can be intertwined in various ways.
motivation: Direction refers to the goals people choose.
motivation: The strength of a motivational state also affects whether it is translated into action.
motivation: In the field of Christian spirituality, the terms acedia and accidie are often used to describe a form of amotivation or listlessness associated with a failure to engage in spiritual practices.
motivation: The need for affiliation is a desire to form social connections with others.
motivation: Other types include: rational and irrational motivation; biological and cognitive motivation; short-term and long-term motivation; and egoistic and altruistic motivation.
motivation: It encompasses a willingness to invest time and effort over an extended period before the intended goal is reached.
motivation: Neuroscience is interested in the underlying neurological mechanisms, such as the involved brain areas and neurotransmitters.
motivation: However, this view has been challenged in the subsequent literature and there is no academic consensus on the relative extent of their influence.
motivation: Equity theory sees fairness as a key aspect of motivation.
motivation: This way, individuals can adapt to changes in the physical and social environment that affect the effectiveness of previously chosen means.
motivation: This is based on the idea that individuals use means to bring about the goal and are flexible in regard to what means they employ.
motivation: Motivation plays a key role in the workplace on various levels.
motivation: It is associated with the explicit formulation of desired outcomes and engagement in goal-directed behavior to realize these outcomes.
motivation: Rational motivation contrasts with irrational motivation, in which the person has no good reason that explains the behavior.
motivation: In this case, the person believes it likely that they perform well, that the performance leads to the expected result, and that the result as a high value.
motivation: However, this is not always the case and under the right circumstances, the combined effects of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation leads to higher performance.
motivation: People act autonomously if they decide themselves what to do rather than following orders.
motivation: Valence is the degree to which the outcomes are attractive to the person.
motivation: According to it, people are interested in the proportion between effort and reward: they judge how much energy one has to invest and how good the outcome is.
motivation: If the instrumentality of a performance is high then the person believes that it will likely result in the intended outcomes.
motivation: If a person is competent at a certain task then they tend to feel good about the work itself and its results.
motivation: Some goals are specific, like reducing one's weight by 3kg, while others are non-specific, like losing as much weight as possible.
motivation: Some focus on material benefits, like high salary, health care, stock ownership plans, profit-sharing, and company cars.
motivation: Two additional factors identified by goal-setting theorists are goal commitment and self-efficacy.
motivation: A related contrast is between push and pull motivation.
motivation: The term disorders of diminished motivation covers a wide range of related phenomena, including abulia, akinetic mutism, and other motivation-related neurological disorders.
motivation: It investigates regular motivational processes, pathological cases, and the effect of possible treatments.
motivation: If both are present, they may work against each other.
motivation: Externalists hold that these additional states do not always accompany moral judgments, meaning that it would be possible to have moral judgments without a moral motivation to follow them.
motivation: To have self-efficacy means to believe in oneself and in one's ability to succeed.
motivation: Biological motivation concerns motives that arise due to physiological needs.
motivation: Certain forms of psychopathy and brain damage can inhibit moral motivation.
motivation: Examples are the desire for food, water, and shelter.
motivation: However, there are also certain advantages to extrinsic motivation: it can provide people with motivation to engage in useful or necessary tasks which they do not naturally find interesting or enjoyable.
motivation: Often-discussed components are direction, intensity, and persistence.
motivation: Various factors influence student motivation.
motivation: This is the case when trying to resist urges to smoke, consume alcohol, and eat fattening food.
motivation: Because of this, the individual may be less likely to further engage in the activity if it does not result in an external reward anymore.
motivation: Understanding and managing employee motivation is essential for managers to ensure effective leadership, employee performance, and business success.
motivation: Intrinsic motivation is a key factor in cognitive, social, and physical development.
motivation: Rational and irrational motivation play a key role in the field of economics.
motivation: Emotional states affect how goals are set and which goals are prioritized.
motivation: Neurology uses data from both humans and animals, which it obtains through a variety of methods, including the use of functional magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography.
motivation: Individuals can have abilities without exercising them.
motivation: Extrinsic motivation arises from external factors, such as rewards, punishments, or recognition from others.
motivation: The field of animal motivation examines the reasons and mechanisms underlying animal behavior.
motivation: Some styles focus on realizing a particular goal while others concentrate on teaching, following certain principles, or building a positive interpersonal relationship.
motivation: Content theories aim to describe which internal factors motivate people and which goals they commonly follow.
motivation: This view is based on the idea that the desire to do something justifies the effort to engage in this activity.
motivation: Various difficulties can arise in this phase.
motivation: For conscious motivation, the individual is aware of the motive driving the behavior, which is not the case for unconscious motivation.
motivation: It is a transient and fluctuating phenomenon that may arise and subside spontaneously.
motivation: Altruistic motivation is marked by selfless intentions and involves a genuine concern for the well-being of others.
motivation: They also need to ensure that the chosen means are effective and that they do not overexert themselves.
motivation: In the latter case, there are both internal and external reasons why the person engages in the behavior.
motivation: Equity theory states that individuals assess fairness by comparing their own ratio of effort and reward to the ratio of others.
motivation: Unlike intent, motive is usually not an essential element of a crime: it plays various roles in investigative considerations but is normally not required to establish the defendant's guilt.
motivation: This can involve psychological aspects in relation to desires and volitions or physiological aspects regarding physical needs.
motivation: The desire to visit a sick friend to keep a promise is an example of moral motivation.
motivation: Zimmerman includes an additional self-reflection phase after the performance.
motivation: This implies that the motive of the behavior explains why the person should engage in the behavior.
motivation: Autonomous motivation is associated with acting according to one's free will or doing something because one wants to do it.
motivation: Unconscious motivation involves motives of which the person is not aware.
motivation: Examples are hunger, thirst, sex, and the need for sleep.
motivation: This means that there is an internal conflict between what a person believes they should do and what they actually do.
motivation: Theories of motivation are conceptual frameworks that seek to explain motivational phenomena.
motivation: Motivation is studied in fields such as psychology, motivation science, neuroscience, and philosophy.
motivation: Depending on the performance during the striving phase, the individual may adjust their goal.
motivation: The multitude of definitions and the lack of consensus have prompted some theorists, like psychologists Bunnell and Dewsbury, to doubt that the concept of motivation is theoretically useful and to see it instead as a mere hypothetical construct.
motivation: Motivational reasons can be in tune with normative reasons but this is not always the case.
motivation: A common distinction among theories of motivation is between content theories and process theories.
motivation: Content theories attempt to identify and describe the internal factors that motivate people, such as different types of needs, drives, and desires.
motivation: Egoistic motivation is driven by self-interest: the person is acting for their own benefit or to fulfill their own needs and desires.
motivation: Some theorists have suggested further phases.
motivation: It also tends to come with stronger commitment and persistence.
motivation: For example, financial gain is a motive to commit a crime from which the perpetrator would financially benefit, like embezzlement.
motivation: Motivational reasons contrast with normative reasons, which are facts that determine what should be done or why a course of action is objectively good.
motivation: According to psychologist Ruth Kanfer, motives are stable dispositional tendencies that contrast with the dynamic nature of motivation as a fluctuating internal state.
motivation: Pull motivation arises from an external goal and aims at achieving this goal, like the motivation to get a university degree.
motivation: Hygiene factors are associated with the work environment and conditions.
motivation: Many types of motivation are discussed in academic literature.
motivation: It affects how consistently athletes train, how much effort they are willing to invest, and how well they persevere through challenges.
motivation: It can conflict with other forms of motivation, like the desire to go to the movies instead.
motivation: A closely related issue concerns the different types of mental phenomena that are responsible for motivation, like desires, beliefs, and rational deliberation.
motivation: An example of intrinsic motivation is a person who plays basketball during lunch break only because they enjoy it.
motivation: There are different coaching styles and the right approach may depend on the personalities of the coach, the athlete, and the group as well as the general athletic situation.
motivation: They are essential to prevent job dissatisfaction and associated negative behavior, such as frequent absence or decreased effort.
motivation: It is closely related to the fear of failure.
motivation: Higher needs belong to the psychological level and are associated with the potential to grow as a person.
motivation: The distinction between intrinsic and extrinsic motivation is based on the source or origin of the motivation.
motivation: Another way to classify theories of motivation focuses on the role of inborn physiological processes in contrast to cognitive processes and distinguishes between biological, psychological, and biopsychosocial theories.
motivation: For example, if an employee has the impression that they work longer than their co-workers while receiving the same salary, this may motivate them to ask for a raise.
motivation: McClelland's learned needs theory states that individuals have three primary needs: affiliation, power, and achievement.
motivation: It gives specific emphasis to the interplay of external stimulation and internal states.
motivation: According to him, they form a hierarchy of needs that is composed of lower and higher needs.
motivation: Motivation to perform an action can be present even if the action is not executed.
motivation: All this information is integrated to perform a cost–benefit analysis, which considers the time, effort, and discomfort associated with pursuing a goal as well as positive outcomes, like fulfilling one's needs or escaping harm.
motivation: They examine which goals motivate people.
motivation: It affects educational success, work performance, athletic success, and economic behavior.
motivation: Another approach is to provide a very broad characterization to cover many different aspects of motivation.
motivation: However, some theorists distinguish their precise meanings as technical terms.
motivation: It can be guided by deep-rooted beliefs, desires, and feelings operating beneath the level of consciousness.
motivation: Push motivation arises from unfulfilled internal needs and aims at satisfying them.
motivation: Motivational states are characterized by their direction, intensity, and persistence.
motivation: Amotivation is usually a temporary state.
motivation: Others aim to make changes to the design of the job itself.
motivation: It is the responsibility of coaches not just to advise and instruct athletes on training plans and strategies but also to motivate them to put in the required effort and give their best.
motivation: One theory states that different motivational states compete with each other and that only the behavior with the highest net force of motivation is put into action.
motivation: For instance, amotivated children at school remain passive in class, do not engage in classroom activities, and fail to follow teacher instructions.
motivation: Educational research is particularly interested in understanding the different effects that intrinsic and extrinsic motivation have on the learning process.
motivation: It can also manifest in the form of occupational burnout.
motivation: The goal belongs to the individual's motivational reason and explains why they favor an action and engage in it.
motivation: It occurs when people pursue an activity for its own sake.
motivation: For example, based on the assumption that it is in the self-interest of firms to maximize profit, actions that lead to that outcome are considered rational while actions that impede profit maximization are considered irrational.
motivation: Intrinsic motivation comes from internal factors such as enjoyment and curiosity; it contrasts with extrinsic motivation, which is driven by external factors such as obtaining rewards and avoiding punishment.
motivation: Motivation plays a key role in education since it affects the students' engagement with the studied topic and shapes their learning experience and academic success.
motivation: An example of conscious motivation is a person in a clothing store who states that they want to buy a shirt and then goes on to buy one.
motivation: A closely related issue is whether motivational processes are mechanistic and run automatically or have a more complex nature involving cognitive processes and active decision-making.
motivation: Amotivation can be a significant barrier to productivity, goal attainment, and overall well-being.
motivation: Another outlook identifies the phases of goal setting, using feedback, managing multiple potentially conflicting goals, and leveraging social support.
motivation: Intrinsic motivation is often seen as the preferred type of motivation since it is associated with more in-depth learning, better memory retention, and long-term commitment.
motivation: In this case, the person lacks a clear understanding of the deeper source of motivation and in what sense the behavior is in tune with their values.
motivation: Persistence refers to how long an individual is willing to engage in an activity.
motivation: Effort is the physical and mental energy invested when exercising an ability.
motivation: Definitions emphasizing this aspect understand motivation as a mostly conscious process of rationally considering the most appropriate behavior.
motivation: The term amotivational syndrome refers to a more permanent and wide-reaching condition.
motivation: This is especially the case if they feel that they receive fewer rewards than others.
motivation: They aim to understand human motivation in the context of organizations and investigate its role in work and work-related activities including human resource management, employee selection, training, and managerial practices.
motivation: For example, hunger may push an individual to find something to eat.
motivation: They are more likely to be motivated to do something if they have the ability to do it, but having an ability is not a requirement and it is possible to be motivated while lacking the corresponding ability.
motivation: Neurologists understand motivation as a multifaceted phenomenon that integrates and processes signals to make complex decisions and coordinate actions.
motivation: Moral motivation is closely related to altruistic motivation.
motivation: In the case of controlled motivation, the person feels pressured into doing something by external forces.
motivation: Connection is another factor identified by self-determination theorists and concerns the social environment.
motivation: Its motive is to act in tune with moral judgments and it can be characterized as the willingness to "do the right thing".
motivation: Two key principles of Maslow's theory are the progression principle and the deficit principle.
motivation: It affects diverse processes involving consumer behavior, labor supply, and investment decisions.
motivation: For example, if one roommate decides to go to the movies while the other visits a party, they both have motivation but their motivational states differ in regard to the direction they pursue.
motivation: It is associated with the desire to assist and help others in a non-transactional manner without the goal of obtaining personal gain or rewards in return.
motivation: Instrumentality concerns the relation between performance and outcomes.
motivation: These three components affect each other in a multiplicative way, meaning that high motivation is only present if all of them are high.
motivation: In this case, there may be a clash between the short-term motivation to seek immediate physical gratification and the long-term motivation to preserve and nurture a successful marriage built on trust and commitment.
motivation: Unconscious motivation is a central topic in Sigmund Freud's psychoanalysis.
motivation: Intrinsic motivation comes from within the individual, who engages in an activity out of enjoyment, curiosity, or a sense of fulfillment.
motivation: However, when understood in a wider sense, rational motivation is a broader term that also includes behavior motivated by a desire to benefit others as a form of rational altruism.
motivation: For example, if a person saves a drowning child because they value the child's life, then their motivation is rational.
motivation: If the expectancy of a behavior is high then the person believes that their efforts will likely result in successful performance.
motivation: Cognitive motivation concerns motives that arise from the psychological level.
motivation: A goal is challenging if it is achievable but hard to reach.
motivation: This is partly because motivation is a complex phenomenon with many aspects and different definitions often focus on different aspects.
motivation: Positive emotions are associated with optimism about the value of a goal and create a tendency to seek positive outcomes.
motivation: Another discussion revolves around the topic of whether the primary sources of motivation are internal needs rather than external goals.
motivation: For example, affiliation-oriented individuals are primarily motivated by establishing and maintaining social relations while achievement-oriented individuals are inclined to set challenging goals and strive for personal excellence.
motivation: They contrast with process theories, which discuss the cognitive, emotional, and decision-making processes that underlie human motivation, like expectancy theory, equity theory, goal-setting theory, self-determination theory, and reinforcement theory.
motivation: According to the controversial thesis of psychological egoism, there is no altruistic motivation: all motivation is egoistic.
motivation: It contrasts with amotivation, which is a state of apathy or listlessness.
motivation: It can be caused by factors like unrealistic expectations, helplessness, feelings of incompetence, and the inability to see how one's actions affect outcomes.
motivation: Motivation is influenced by the organism's physiological state, like stress, information about the environment, and personal history, like past experiences with this environment.
motivation: Some definitions emphasize internal factors.
motivation: It further considers how an animal benefits from a certain behavior as an individual and in terms of evolution.
motivation: The pursued objective often forms part of a hierarchy of means-end relationships.
motivation: A high level of motivational persistence manifests itself in a sustained dedication over time.
motivation: It starts with the initiation of the action and includes putting in effort and trying different strategies to succeed.
motivation: Motivation is not directly observable but instead has to be inferred from other characteristics.
motivation: Cognitively motivated behavior is not an innate reflex but a flexible response to the available information that is based on past experiences and expected outcomes.
motivation: This is true specifically for democracies to ensure active engagement, participation, and voting.
motivation: For example, health-related lifestyle changes may at times require high willpower and self-control to implement meaningful adjustments while resisting impulses and bad habits.
motivation: Motivated students are more likely to participate in classroom activities and persevere through challenges.
motivation: For instance, Madsen saw motivation as "the 'driving force' behind behavior" while Vatenstein and Wong emphasize that motivation leads to goal-oriented behavior that is interested in consequences.
motivation: The processing and interpretation of information play a key role in cognitive motivation.
motivation: The learning material should be neither too easy, which threatens to bore students, nor too difficult, which can lead to frustration.
motivation: For example, psychologist Andrea Fuchs understood motivation as the "sum of separate motives".
motivation: It uses the principle of operant conditioning, which states that behavior followed by positive consequences is more likely to be repeated, while behavior followed by negative consequences is less likely to be repeated.
motivation: Biological motivation is associated with states of arousal and emotional changes.
motivation: The goal-setting process by itself does not ensure that the plan is carried out.
motivation: The behavior of the teacher also has a significant impact on student motivation, for example, in regard to how the material is presented, the feedback they provide on assignments, and the interpersonal relation they build with the students.
motivation: They are responsible for job satisfaction as well as increased commitment and creativity.
motivation: They include the personal needs and expectations of the employees, the characteristics of the tasks they perform, and whether the work conditions are perceived as fair and just.
motivation: These influences can affect decisions, impact behavior, and shape habits.
motivation: McClelland holds that these needs are present in everyone but that their exact form, strength, and expression is shaped by cultural influences and the individual's experiences.
motivation: The need for achievement relates to a yearning to establish ambitious objectives and to receive positive feedback on one's performance.
motivation: A motive is a reason that tempts a person to form an intent.
motivation: This is the case, for instance, if there is a stronger motivation to engage in a different action at the same time.
motivation: Examples are self-esteem in the form of a positive self-image and personal development by actualizing one's unique talents and abilities.
motivation: This happens in the goal-striving stage, in which the individual tries to implement the plan.
