multiculturalism: From this perspective, stable social order was seen as more effectively achieved through equal civil rights and legal toleration than through enforced conformity.
multiculturalism: Mexico City has recently been integrating rapidly, doing much better than many cities in a sample conducted by the Intercultural Cities Index (being the only non-European city, alongside Montreal, on the index).
multiculturalism: This is often referred to the Bumiputra policy.
multiculturalism: It encompassed a mosaic of languages, religions, and regional identities, resisting the centralizing and homogenizing tendencies that characterized nation-state development elsewhere.
multiculturalism: "many, yet one") enshrined in Pancasila the national ideology, articulates the diversity that shapes the country.
multiculturalism: However, since the 1990s, Romania has received a growing number of immigrants and refugees, most of them from the Arab world, Asia or Africa.
multiculturalism: In an effort to support recent Filipino immigrants to Alberta, for example, one school board partnered with a local university and an immigration agency to support these new families in their school and community.
multiculturalism: Because of urbanization, major Indonesian cities such as Greater Jakarta, Surabaya, Bandung, Palembang, Medan and Makassar have attracted large numbers of Indonesians from various ethnic, cultural and religious backgrounds.
multiculturalism: According to Erik Bleich, multiculturalism in France faced stiff resistance in the educational sector, especially regarding recent Muslim arrivals from Algeria.
multiculturalism: [...] Having a two percent foreign population unquestionably causes ripples, but having one million temporary foreign residents does not make Korea a multicultural society.
multiculturalism: There has been increased awareness of anti-blackness and active efforts to combat racism.
multiculturalism: Its largest ethnic minority groups, Turks and Roma, enjoy wide political representation.
multiculturalism: Colombia, with an estimated population of 51 million inhabitants, is populated by a great variety of ethnic groups.
multiculturalism: After slavery was no longer permitted in Peru, African-Peruvians and Asian-Peruvians have contributed to Peruvian culture in many ways.
multiculturalism: We act like turtles.
multiculturalism: Bolivian culture is celebrated across the country and has heavy influences from the Aymara, the Quechua, the Spanish, and other popular cultures from around Latin America.
multiculturalism: Canadian multiculturalism is often seen as cherishing immigrant ways of life from outside the country, and as such, it is looked upon with admiration resulting in dismissing of most critics of the concept.
multiculturalism: Far-right sympathisers have been shown to increasingly take part in a multitude of online discursive efforts directed against global brands' multicultural advertisements.
multiculturalism: According to Dr Marinova-Christidi, the main reason for the efforts of Bulgarian people to save their Jewish population during WWII is that within the region, they "co-existed for centuries with other religions" – giving it a unique multicultural and multiethnic history.
multiculturalism: This Convention affirms multicultural policies in Luxembourg and creates political awareness of cultural diversity.
multiculturalism: Not only did this term effectively discriminate against mixed-race Koreans but it also made a clear distinction between native Koreans and mixed-race Koreans.
multiculturalism: It is home to several ethnic groups including Turkish, Arab, Armenian, Assyrian, Greek, Kurdish, and Jewish.
multiculturalism: Indian polity after the 1990s has been marked by a shift from secular principles to a landscape that is dominated by pro-Hindu propaganda; the Bhartiya Janata Party has used this rhetoric by reconstructing Hinduism and bartering it under the guise of Indian nationalism.
multiculturalism: There is a multicultural presence in this city, and this is prevalent throughout Brazil.
multiculturalism: This conceptual transition of multiculturalism is also reflected in Canada's official discourse, where attitudes about "multiculturalism" have shifted to focus on "diversity," driven by increasing immigration rates.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism – Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Multiculturalism – Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Multiculturalism in Canada debated – CBC video archives (14 September 2004 – 42:35 min)
Canadian Multiculturalism Act
multiculturalism: South Korea has been long regarded as an ethnic homogeneous country, therefore, the rise in mixed-race children was seen as a new phenomenon.
multiculturalism: This was partly due to the stricter border control across Europe, including an agreement between the EU and Turkey.
multiculturalism: In the middle are modernising republicans who uphold republicanism but also accept some elements of cultural pluralism.
multiculturalism: On 4 January 1990, the activists of the movement registered an organisation with the legal name Movement for Rights and Freedoms (MRF) (in Bulgarian: Движение за права и свободи: in Turkish: Hak ve Özgürlükler Hareketi) in the Bulgarian city of Varna.
multiculturalism: On a smaller scale, this can occur artificially when a jurisdiction is established or expanded by amalgamating areas with two or more different cultures (e.g.
multiculturalism: Europe has historically known great diversity in terms of ethnic, linguistic, and religious groups, far outnumbering the number of nation-states.
multiculturalism: Furthermore, Brazil is a country that has made great strides to embrace migrant cultures.
multiculturalism: The issue is sometimes related to the controversial status of religious freedom in Malaysia.
multiculturalism: Moreover more than 40 percent of India's population belongs to the Other Backward Castes as per the National Sample Survey Office or the NSSO which is a government organization for conducting surveys in India.
multiculturalism: Chinese Indonesians were forced to adopt Indonesian-sounding names, and the use of Chinese culture and language was banned.
multiculturalism: A majority of the indigenous groups are Papuans who have ancestors that lived in New Guinea over ten thousand years ago.
multiculturalism: Canadian society is often depicted as being "very progressive, diverse, and multicultural," or a just society that formally acknowledges several different cultures and beliefs.
multiculturalism: Under the Raffles Plan of Singapore, the city was divided into ethnic enclaves such as Geylang, Chinatown, and Little India.
multiculturalism: There was a heavy influence of Spanish culture due to the Spanish Conquest, which influenced their religion, language and traditions.
multiculturalism: The influence of the transitioned ideology of multiculturalism in the public sphere has led many public and private groups in Canada to work toward supporting both multiculturalism and recent immigrants to Canada.
multiculturalism: The United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) adopted the United Nations' Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) in 2007.
multiculturalism: And it's not just that we don't trust people who are not like us.
multiculturalism: Other prominent smaller groups include Peranakans, Arabs, Armenians, Eurasians, Europeans, Americans, and Canadians.
multiculturalism: Native East Malaysians, namely Bajau, Bruneian, Bidayuh, Dusun, Iban, Kadazan, Kedayan, Melanau, Orang Ulu, Sarawakian Malays, etc.
multiculturalism: It is estimated that 18.8 million Colombians are direct descendants of Europeans, either by one of their parents or grandparents.
multiculturalism: In a lengthy speech, the general (…) invoked his own legendary ancestry.
multiculturalism: Australia's diverse migrant communities have brought with them food, lifestyle and cultural practices, many of which have been absorbed into mainstream Australian culture.
multiculturalism: In the nineteenth century, the ideology of nationalism transformed the way Europeans thought about the state.
multiculturalism: The concept of "Cultural exception" proposed by France in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations in 1993 was an example of a measure aimed at protecting local cultures.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism is reflected in the law through the Canadian Multiculturalism Act and section 27 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
multiculturalism: The spread of English as a global language, Hollywood films, and the universal availability of fast-food chains such as McDonald's are all signs of a world becoming increasingly culturally homogeneous.
multiculturalism: This conflict between the two sides led to the Paris Massacre of 17 October 1961, when the police used force against an Algerian demonstration on the streets of Paris.
multiculturalism: This can be seen as a result of World War II where the first noteworthy wave of multiculturalism between American servicemen and Korean women occurred.
multiculturalism: The culture of India has been shaped by its long history, unique geography and diverse demography.
multiculturalism: Especially since the 19th century societies in Europe and North America have become culturally more homogeneous due to the consolidation of the nation-state.
multiculturalism: In Baden-Württemberg, immigrants are asked what they would do if their son says he is a homosexual (the desired answer is that they would accept it).
multiculturalism: The Progress Party has named the reduction of high levels of immigration from non-European countries one of their goals:
multiculturalism: Critics argue that analyses which view society as 'too diverse' for social democracy and cohesion have "performative" effects regarding legitimate racism towards those classed as immigrants.
multiculturalism: Canada has provided provisions to the French-speaking majority of Quebec, whereby they function as an autonomous community with special rights to govern the members of their community, as well as establish French as one of the official languages.
multiculturalism: Multicultural societies with identity politics can result in elections mirroring the identity or ethnic headcount, incentivizing demographic engineering.
multiculturalism: Following the partition of Vietnam, students and professionals from South Vietnam continued to arrive in France.
multiculturalism: However, while scheduled castes have turned into important political communities that the state concerns itself about, scheduled tribes continue to be politically marginalized.
multiculturalism: The island's population is also made up of many expatriate citizens from China, Australia, Indonesia, Europe and the Philippines.
multiculturalism: The Spanish opened schools in which they taught Christianity, and the Spanish language eventually surpassed indigenous languages, making it the most spoken language in Mexico.
multiculturalism: Although urban areas tend to show greater ethnic diversity, the variation between regions and countries has declined, which is often seen as a loss of cultural diversity.
multiculturalism: In reference to sociology, multiculturalism is the end-state of either a natural or artificial process, such as legally controlled immigration, and occurs on either a large national scale or on a smaller scale within a nation's communities.
multiculturalism: Ranging from mountains, deserts, and rainforests, to coast-lands and savanna grasslands, its diverse geography makes a large diverse population possible.
multiculturalism: This process gained momentum after the French Revolution and consolidated in the 19th century.
multiculturalism: From the year 2000 to 2010, the number of people in Mexico that were born in another country doubled, reaching a total of 961,121 people, mostly coming from Guatemala and the United States.
multiculturalism: It has a multiethnic and multicultural identity; there are more than 26 ethnic groups in the province, which has six official languages.
multiculturalism: Before the breakup of Yugoslavia and Yugoslav Wars, Yugoslavia was multicultural.
multiculturalism: James saw pluralism as "crucial to the formation of philosophical and social humanism to help build a better, more egalitarian society.
multiculturalism: Where cultural unity was insufficient, it was encouraged and enforced by the state.
multiculturalism: Many landmarks on the island have both their Māori and English names officially recognized.
multiculturalism: Religiously, Hindus form the majority, followed by Muslims.
multiculturalism: The word is used in sociology, in political philosophy, and colloquially.
multiculturalism: Existing states were broken up and new ones created; the new nation-states were founded on the principle that each nation is entitled to its own sovereignty and to engender, protect, and preserve its own unique culture and history.
multiculturalism: Saint Patrick's Day), supporting all kinds of art or cultural expressions from ethnic groups, as well as their diffusion through an important multicultural presence in the media.
multiculturalism: In 1821, Peru's president José de San Martín gave foreigners the freedom to start industries in Peru's ground, 2 years after, foreigners that lived in Peru for more than 5 years were considered naturalized citizens, which then decreased to 3 years.
multiculturalism: The melting pot theory implied that each individual immigrant, and each group of immigrants, assimilated into American society at their own pace.
multiculturalism: The explicit policy aim of the freedom of choice principle was to create the opportunity for minority groups in Sweden to retain their own languages and cultures.
multiculturalism: In the Western English-speaking countries, multiculturalism as an official national policy started in Canada in 1971, followed by Australia in 1973 where it is maintained today.
multiculturalism: Mauritius has embraced intertwining of cultures from the origin of the country, and has coined the term fruit-salad, which is a much more appealing term in comparison to melting-pot showing that they were not forced to these cultures.
multiculturalism: Putnam says, however, that "in the long run immigration and diversity are likely to have important cultural, economic, fiscal, and developmental benefits", as long as society successfully overcomes the short-term problems.
multiculturalism: Critics of this policy has called it synonymous to racial discrimination and synonymous to Apartheid.
multiculturalism: Ecuador’s constitutions recognize multiculturalism, but historical attitudes rooted in “monocultural mestizaje” show that this recognition has often stayed on paper, revealing a persistent gap between law and social reality.
multiculturalism: Sweden was the first country to adopt an official policy of multiculturalism in Europe.
multiculturalism: The melting pot tradition co-exists with a belief in national unity, dating from the American founding fathers:
multiculturalism: Mexico has historically always been a multicultural country.
multiculturalism: Furthermore, unlike some other Nazi Germany allies or German-occupied countries excluding Denmark, Bulgaria managed to save its entire 48,000-strong Jewish population during World War II from deportation to Nazi concentration camps.
multiculturalism: Immigration is expected to increase in the future, as large numbers of Romanian workers leave the country and are being replaced by foreigners.
multiculturalism: A 2013 census of New Zealand's population showed that 74% of the population identifies ethnically as European, while the latter 15% majority identify as Māori.
multiculturalism: Racial and ethnic labels can have a significant impact: non-minorities primed to think of themselves as White (versus European American) were subsequently less in favor of multiculturalism and were more racially prejudiced.
multiculturalism: In 2016, a group of indigenous Baka and Bagyeli groups united to form Gbabandi.
multiculturalism: On the other hand, hate speech toward minority groups by politicians can reduce social cohesion.
multiculturalism: Many of these immigrants were known as the "harkis", and the others were known as the "pieds-noirs".
multiculturalism: In multicultural societies the first-past-the-post voting system can increase ethnic conflict compared to proportional representation.
multiculturalism: Since Antiquity, Romania has hosted many religious and ethnic groups, besides Romanians, including Roma people, Hungarians, Germans, Turks, Greeks, Tatars, Slovaks, Serbs, Jews and others.
multiculturalism: However, despite these constitutional reforms, historical attitudes toward race and nationhood continue to influence contemporary Ecuadorian society.
multiculturalism: The capital city Sofia is the only European city that has peacefully functioning, within walking distance of 300 metres, four Places of worship of the major religions: Eastern Orthodox (St Nedelya Church), Islam (Banya Bashi Mosque), Roman Catholicism (St.
multiculturalism: Scholars such as Ibrahim Menek suggest that states that embody multicultural ideals have existed since ancient times.
multiculturalism: A 2017 study by Lund University also found that social trust was lower among people in regions with high levels of past non-Nordic immigration than among people in regions with low levels of past immigration.
multiculturalism: Vojvodina is an autonomous province of Serbia, located in the northern part of the country.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism in Scandinavia has centered on discussions about marriage, dress, religious schools, Muslim funeral rites and gender equality.
multiculturalism: Other native tribes of Peninsular Malaysia, such as the Orang Asli and Siamese people, and
Non-native tribes of Peninsular Malaysia such as the Chettiars, the Peranakan and the Portuguese.
multiculturalism: Because Koreans share values and views, they support decisions even when they are obviously bad.
multiculturalism: Venezuelan culture is mainly composed of a mixture of their indigenous culture, Spanish, and African.
multiculturalism: Historical waves of migration have led to levels of diversity that were at least as great.
multiculturalism: South Korea remains a relatively homogenous country ethnically, linguistically, and culturally.
multiculturalism: The Habsburg monarchy, which existed from 1282 to 1918, stood in contrast to the emerging trend of nation-state formation in Europe.
multiculturalism: The Canadian government has often been described as the instigator of multicultural ideology because of its public emphasis on the social importance of immigration.
multiculturalism: Sweden has the most permissive policies while Denmark the most restrictive ones.
multiculturalism: From the mid-1970s, the goal of enabling the preservation of minorities and creating a positive attitude towards the new officially endorsed multicultural society among the majority population became incorporated into the Swedish constitution as well as cultural, educational and media policies.
multiculturalism: In Pluralistic Universe (1909), William James espoused the idea of a "plural society".
multiculturalism: Canada and Australia, for example, are countries with high levels of immigration and diversity, but also with stable and well-functioning societies.
multiculturalism: In 2001, the New Zealand government opened an Office of Ethnic Affairs to advise its local governments on the advancement of ethnic diversity and affairs of its multicultural communities.
multiculturalism: This led to an increase of Asian and Pacific islander peoples on the island, and ultimately a more diverse European population.
multiculturalism: It has also become known as "The Square of Religious Tolerance" and has initiated the construction of a 100-square-metre scale model of the site that is to become a symbol of the capital.
multiculturalism: The erosive effect on trust was more pronounced for immigration from culturally distant countries.
multiculturalism: The Malay Peninsula has a long history of international trade contacts, influencing its ethnic and religious composition.
multiculturalism: Jakarta in particular has almost all Indonesian ethnic groups represented.
multiculturalism: In 1984, following a campaign by the Communist regime for a forcible change of the Islamic names of the Turkish minority, an underground organisation called «National Liberation Movement of the Turks in Bulgaria» was formed which headed the Turkish community's opposition movement.
multiculturalism: English was established as the medium of instruction in schools during the 1960s and 1970s and is the language of trade and government while the other three languages are taught as second languages ("mother tongues").
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism will introduce contrasting views and challenge existing assumptions.
multiculturalism: According to migration researcher Hein de Haas, it is a myth that current societies are more diverse than ever.
multiculturalism: In total, 170 different nationalities make up the population of Luxembourg, out of this; 86% are of European descent.
multiculturalism: While Spanish is Venezuela's main language, there are more than 40 indigenous languages spoken to this day.
multiculturalism: 95% of those are of Native Indonesian ancestry.
multiculturalism: In a 2002 interview with The Globe and Mail, Karīm al-Hussainī, the 49th Aga Khan of the Ismaili Muslims, described Canada as "the most successful pluralist society on the face of our globe", citing it as "a model for the world".
multiculturalism: A distinguishable trait of Mexico's culture is the mestizaje of its people, which caused the combination of Spanish influence, their indigenous roots while also adapting the culture traditions from their immigrants.
multiculturalism: Apart from these two major languages, a new language consisting of a mixture of French, English, and Pidgin known as Frananglais gained popularity among Cameroonian residents.
multiculturalism: The language itself was often standardised by a linguistic academy, and regional languages were ignored or suppressed.
multiculturalism: Howard had long been a critic of multiculturalism, releasing his One Australia policy in the late 1980s.
multiculturalism: What this allowed was the protection of land and resource rights and prevented others from exploiting or violating them.
multiculturalism: Governments promoted national identities through education, conscription, and the standardization of languages.
multiculturalism: More Malays however have moved into the cities since the 1970s, and the proportion of the non-Malays have been decreasing continually, especially the Chinese, due in large part to lower birth-rate and emigration as a result of institutionalized discrimination.
multiculturalism: Under the influence of nationalist ideologies, ethnic minorities were disadvantaged, forced to emigrate or even murdered in most regions in the area of the former Habsburg monarchy due to the prevailing nationalism at the time.
multiculturalism: It is argued that nation states, who would previously have been synonymous with a distinctive cultural identity of their own, lose out to enforced multiculturalism and that this ultimately erodes the host nations' distinct culture.
multiculturalism: French Canada and English Canada).
multiculturalism: Linguistically, the two main language families in India are Indo-Aryan (a branch of Indo-European) and Dravidian.
multiculturalism: This was due to decreases in identification with ethnic minorities.
multiculturalism: This is mainly because of colonization that has been present from, the English, the French, and the Dutch.
multiculturalism: Multicultural policies were adopted by local administrations from the 1970s and 1980s onwards.
multiculturalism: So diversity as such does not undermine social cohesion, hate speech by politicians does.
multiculturalism: Du Bois and Alain Locke developed concepts of cultural pluralism, from which emerged what we understand today as multiculturalism.
multiculturalism: Besides being a multilingual country, Singapore also acknowledges festivals celebrated by the three main ethnic communities.
multiculturalism: “There is no more Indian problem,” he insisted; “we all become white when we accept the goals of national culture” (Stutzman, 1981, p.
multiculturalism: The traditionalists refuse to make any concessions and instead insist on clinging to the historic republican principles of "laïcité" and the secular state in which religion and ethnicity are always ignored.
multiculturalism: The project by the Government of AP Vojvodina titled "Promotion of Multiculturalism and Tolerance in Vojvodina", whose primary goal is to foster the cultural diversity and develop the atmosphere of interethnic tolerance among the citizens of Vojvodina, has been successfully implemented since 2005.
multiculturalism: This can be seen in the large scale violence against cultural minorities, the votebank politics used by the Indian National Congress, and the promotion of issues faced by the larger religious communities over those faced by the backward groups in religious minorities.
multiculturalism: Peru is the home to Amerindians but after the Spanish Conquest, the Spanish brought African, and Asian peoples as slaves to Peru creating a mix of ethnic groups.
multiculturalism: The same year, Stephen Castles of the International Migration Institute argued:
multiculturalism: The multicultural relief depicts 28 envoys carrying Darius seated on the throne.
multiculturalism: The nineteenth century nation-states developed an array of policies – the most important was compulsory primary education in the national language.
multiculturalism: The next country to adopt an official policy of multiculturalism after Canada was Australia, a country with similar immigration situations and similar policies - for example, the formation of the Special Broadcasting Service.
multiculturalism: Malik argues that this approach can lead to a distorted interpretation of empirical data.
multiculturalism: Jeremy Jennings finds three positions among elites regarding the question of reconciling traditional French Republican principles with multiculturalism.
multiculturalism: Article 7 of the constitution enshrines recognition and protection of Colombia's multicultural and multiethnic nature.
multiculturalism: This is different from multiculturalism as it is defined above, which does not include complete assimilation and integration.
multiculturalism: Like the clashes between native Dayak tribes against Madurese migrants in Kalimantan during the Sanggau Ledo riots in 1996–1997, the Sambas riots in 1999, and the Sampit conflict in 2001.
multiculturalism: Lord Sacks, Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth, made a distinction between tolerance and multiculturalism, citing the Netherlands as a tolerant, rather than multicultural, society.
multiculturalism: The culture of India is an amalgamation of these diverse sub-cultures spread all over the Indian subcontinent and traditions that are several millennia old.
multiculturalism: Chinese Indonesians are the largest foreign-origin minority that has resided in Indonesia for generations.
multiculturalism: Consequently, within the Balkan region, Bulgaria has become an example for multiculturalism in terms of variety of religions, artistic creativity and ethnicity.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism, however, is a misnomer often misidentified as a societal ideal with its associated natural moral sensitivity, whereas it functions as a political instrument for diversity management under official policy.
multiculturalism: According to a 2000 analysis of domestic terrorism in the United States, "A distinctive feature of American terrorism is the ideological diversity of perpetrators.
multiculturalism: Other countries have instituted policies which encourage cultural separation.
multiculturalism: But there is a downside, too.
multiculturalism: Therefore, legally, Ecuador is a multicultural country, but, in practice, it still subscribes to  a notion of nationhood rooted in “monocultural mestizaje”, which refers to the mix of indigenous people of the Americas with euro-descendant white people, but excluding afro-descendants.
multiculturalism: Contact between people of different cultures in Australia has been characterised by tolerance and engagement, but have also occasionally resulted in conflict and rifts.
multiculturalism: The nation-state constitutes a culturally homogeneous society, although some national movements recognised regional differences.
multiculturalism: At the moment of registration, it had 33 members, at present, according to the organisation's website, 68,000 members plus 24,000 in the organisation's youth wing [1].
multiculturalism: The Australian Government retains multiculturalism in policy and as a defining aspect of modern Australia.
multiculturalism: According to a 2020 study by the Strategic & International Studies, right-wing extremists are responsible for the murder of 329 people since 1994 (over half due to the terrorist bombing of the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P.
multiculturalism: Thus, most states differ from one another in language, culture, cuisine, clothing, literary style, architecture, music and festivities.
multiculturalism: Predominantly Malays before the 18th century, the ethnic composition changed dramatically when the British introduced new industries, and imported Chinese and Indian labor.
multiculturalism: However, the same poll in 2015 showed that support of a multicultural society had dropped to 49.7% suggesting a possible return to ethnic exclusivism.
multiculturalism: Serbia is continually working on improving its relationship and inclusion of minorities in its effort to gain full accession to the European Union.
multiculturalism: "If you stay too long, Koreans become uncomfortable with you.
multiculturalism: In reference to political science, multiculturalism can be defined as a state's capacity to effectively and efficiently deal with cultural plurality within its sovereign borders.
multiculturalism: [...] In many ways, this homogeneity is one of Korea's greatest strengths.
multiculturalism: It is considered to be a cradle of civilization, which influences their multiculturalism and diversity, by having different civilizations influence them.
multiculturalism: The Suharto Orde Baru or New Order adopted a forced assimilation policy; which indicated that Chinese cultural elements were unacceptable.
multiculturalism: Today, Amerindians make up 25.8% of the population, Mestizos 60.2%, White 5.9% and 4.8% is composed by Black, Chinese, Japanese and others.
multiculturalism: As the Algerian War started in 1954, there were already 200,000 Algerian immigrants in France.
multiculturalism: A recent multi-city study of municipal spending on public goods in the United States found that ethnically or racially diverse cities spend a smaller portion of their budgets and less per capita on public services than do the more homogeneous cities.
multiculturalism: The violence targeting Chinese Indonesians erupted during riots in 1998.
multiculturalism: These groups have been provided with reservations that constitutionally guarantee them representation in governmental institutions, a mandate suggested by the Mandal Commission.
multiculturalism: The effect of diversity is worse than had been imagined.
multiculturalism: This pattern repeated itself elsewhere in Europe and North America, where national unification was accompanied by cultural homogenization.
multiculturalism: Over 62% of Bolivia's population falls into these different indigenous groups, making it the most indigenous country in Latin America.
multiculturalism: The Federation is divided into a series of republics where each ethnic group has preponderance in deciding the laws that affect that republic.
multiculturalism: Case studies of the United States, Africa and South-East Asia find that multi-ethnic societies are less charitable and less able to cooperate to develop public infrastructure.
multiculturalism: In Argentina there are recognized regional languages Guaraní in Corrientes, Quechua in Santiago del Estero, Qom, Mocoví, and Wichí in Chaco.
multiculturalism: It is portrayed as a dangerous political agenda that will create a major obstacle for Muslims to comply with French secularism or "laïcité ".
multiculturalism: In June 2011, the First Rutte cabinet said the Netherlands would turn away from multiculturalism: "Dutch culture, norms and values must be dominant" Minister Donner said.
multiculturalism: However, the rise of pro-Hindu ideology, commonly known as Hindutva, has impinged on the rights of cultural minorities.
multiculturalism: In 2015, Merkel again criticized multiculturalism on the grounds that it leads to parallel societies.
multiculturalism: Bhikhu Parekh counters what he sees as the tendencies to equate multiculturalism with racial minorities "demanding special rights" and to see these as promoting a "thinly veiled racis[m]".
multiculturalism: The majority of foreigners are from: Belgium, France, Italy, Germany, and Portugal.
multiculturalism: Due to historical immigration trends, Singapore has a Chinese majority population with significant minority populations of Malays and Indians (predominantly Tamils).
multiculturalism: However, because of the tension between the Algerians and the French, these immigrants were no longer welcome.
multiculturalism: The idea that 21st century society is in his view exceptionally diverse is based on a distorted image of past societies, in which historical diversity is often overlooked.
multiculturalism: Largest ethnic groups in Vojvodina are Serbs (67%), Hungarians (13%), Slovaks, Croats, Romani, Romanians, Montenegrins, Bunjevci, Bosniaks, Rusyns.
multiculturalism: A 2014 study published by Gävle University College showed that 38% of the population never interacted with anyone from Africa and 20% never interacted with any non-Europeans.
multiculturalism: The Javanese for example, moved from their traditional homeland in Java to the other parts of the archipelago.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism in the Netherlands began with major increases in immigration to the Netherlands during the mid-1950s and 1960s.
multiculturalism: Electoral engineering to prevent ethnic conflict in multicultural societies was found ineffective.
multiculturalism: They share their borders with Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil, Chile and Bolivia, and have welcomed many immigrants into their country creating a diverse community.
multiculturalism: Relatively homogeneous societies invest more in public goods, indicating a higher level of public altruism.
multiculturalism: Mestizo was also born from the conquest, which meant being half-Indigenous and half-Spanish.
multiculturalism: White racists are responsible for over a third of the deaths, and black militants have claimed almost as many.
multiculturalism: It was partly in response to a new wave of European imperialism in sub-Saharan Africa and the massive immigration of Southern and Eastern Europeans to the United States and Latin America.
multiculturalism: The policies include:
multiculturalism: It has been estimated that every two weeks a language ceases to be spoken along with its last speaker.
multiculturalism: was a melting pot of groups such as Irish, Italian, Chinese, German, and Jewish immigrants, who were often initially perceived as threats to the national identity.
multiculturalism: As of September 2019, 15 foreign residents who had travelled from Norway to Syria or Iraq to join the Islamic State have had their residence permits revoked.
multiculturalism: In 1975, the island population was found to be made up of 40,000 of these diverse expatriate citizens.
multiculturalism: The statistics are: Hindu (79.8%), Muslim (14.2%), Christian (2.3%), Sikh (1.7%), Buddhist (0.7%), Jain (0.4%), Unaffiliated (0.23%), Baháʼís, Jews, Zoroastrians, and others (0.65%).
multiculturalism: In many areas, these ethnic mosaics no longer exist in the 21st century.
multiculturalism: Research psychologist Kenan Malik has criticized the views of Frank Salter, arguing that the main issue with Salter’s argument is not so much the politically sensitive aspects, but rather the points he shares with broader debates on the evolution of ethnocentrism and identity politics.
multiculturalism: This policy subsequently gave way to more assimilationist policies in the 1990s and post-electoral surveys uniformly showed from 1994 onwards that a majority preferred that immigrants assimilated rather than retained the culture of their country of origin.
multiculturalism: Recently, right-of-center governments in several European Union states – notably the Netherlands and Denmark – have reversed the national policy and returned to an official monoculturalism.
multiculturalism: The latter majority are Austronesians whose ancestors arrived less than four thousand years ago.
multiculturalism: While there is research that suggests that ethnic diversity increases chances of war, lower public goods provision and decreases democratization, there is also research that shows that ethnic diversity in itself is not detrimental to peace, public goods provision or democracy.
multiculturalism: Gatekeepers often warned that multiculturalism was a threat to the historic basis of French culture.
multiculturalism: Continuous mass immigration was a feature of the United States economy and society since the first half of the 19th century.
multiculturalism: India's languages, religions, dance, music, architecture and customs differ from place to place within the country, but nevertheless possess a commonality.
multiculturalism: Forced marriages have been widely debated in Denmark, Sweden and Norway but the countries differ in policy and responses by authorities.
multiculturalism: A prominent example is its public housing system.
multiculturalism: Almost all of the remaining deaths are attributable to Puerto Rican nationalists, Islamic extremists, revolutionary leftists and emigre groups." Twenty years later, far-right and white racists were observed as the leading perpetrators of domestic terrorism in the U.S.
multiculturalism: A similar reversal is the subject of debate in the United Kingdom, among others, due to evidence of incipient segregation and anxieties over "home-grown" terrorism.
multiculturalism: Mexico is quickly becoming a melting pot, with many immigrants coming into the country.
multiculturalism: The election of John Howard's Liberal-National Coalition government in 1996 was a major watershed for Australian multiculturalism.
multiculturalism: Indonesia's national motto, Bhinneka Tunggal Ika ("Unity in Diversity" lit.
multiculturalism: Examples of group think are everywhere.
multiculturalism: Upon gaining sovereignty, a major colonial influence was evident, having both English and French become the national language to roughly 25,000,000 Cameroonian residents.
multiculturalism: Approximately 49% of its population is Mestizo, 37% White, 10% African descent, 3.4% Indigenous and 0.6 Romani.
multiculturalism: The government nurtures and promotes the diversity of Indonesian local culture; adopting a pluralist approach.
multiculturalism: In 2011, Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron said in a speech that "state multiculturalism has failed".
multiculturalism: population were immigrants, about the same as at the start of the 21st century.
multiculturalism: Murat Akan, however, argues that the Stasi Report and the new regulations against the hijab and religious symbols in the schools must be set against gestures toward multiculturalism, such as the creation of Muslim schools under contract with the government.
multiculturalism: It has been described as a "salad bowl" and as a cultural mosaic, in contrast to a melting pot, or cultural amalgamation.
multiculturalism: I think in the long run we'll all be better." Putnam denied allegations he was arguing against diversity in society and contended that his paper had been "twisted" to make a case against race-conscious admissions to universities.
multiculturalism: The Economist  ran a cover story in 2016 praising Canada as the most successful multicultural society in the West.
multiculturalism: A 2018 study in the American Political Science Review cast doubts on findings that ethnoracial homogeneity led to greater public goods provision.
multiculturalism: The three main principles of the new policy were equality, partnership and freedom of choice.
multiculturalism: Out of the indigenous groups the Aymara and the Quechua are the largest.
multiculturalism: This diverse geography resembles Africa as a whole and due to this, many people commonly label Cameroon as "Africa in Miniature".
multiculturalism: According to the National Institute for Indigenous Affairs published on its website, there are 1,779 registered indigenous communities in Argentina, belonging to 39 indigenous peoples.
multiculturalism: For example, the degree of ethnic homogeneity correlates with the government's share of gross domestic product as well as the average wealth of citizens.
multiculturalism: Brazil is a controversial country when it comes to defining a multicultural country.
multiculturalism: In 2010, an opinion editorial written by Peter Underwood for the JoongAng Ilbo stated: "Media in [South] Korea is abuzz with the new era of multiculturalism.
multiculturalism: Although official multiculturalism policy is not established at the federal level, ethnic and cultural diversity is common in rural, suburban and urban areas.
multiculturalism: Putnam has also stated, however, that "this allergy to diversity tends to diminish and to go away...
multiculturalism: The revitalization in the Māori language led to its immersion in schools and television broadcast.
multiculturalism: Each people within their territories has the right to practice their customs and traditions and even to impose their own laws, as is the case in Chechnya, as long as they do not violate federal and constitutional laws of the Russian Federation.
multiculturalism: Local and regional identities were strong, with each region and town having its own dialect, customs, and traditions.
multiculturalism: The idea of the melting pot is a metaphor that implies that all the immigrant cultures are mixed and amalgamated without state intervention.
multiculturalism: There were also clashes between Muslims and Christians, such as violence erupted in Poso between 1998 and into 2000, and violences in Maluku between 1999 and into 2002.
multiculturalism: It is organized as a republic and governed in a decentralized manner” (Ecuador, 2008, art.
multiculturalism: Some nations focused (…) (on) a ‘monocultural mestizaje’, (...)(that is,) the mixture of the indigenous with whites to the complete exclusion of blacks (Ecuador and Mexico).” (Hernández, 2012, p.
multiculturalism: Malaysia is a multiethnic country, with Malays making up the majority, close to 58% of the population.
multiculturalism: The Constitution of Bolivia recognizes 36 official languages besides Spanish, each language has its own culture and indigenous group.
multiculturalism: There is a wide variety of ethnic groups, the major group being Mestizos followed by White Mexicans and Indigenous Mexicans.
multiculturalism: During WW2 and Communism, most of these ethnic groups chose to emigrate to other countries.
multiculturalism: Issues such as social and cultural differentiation, multilingualism, competing identity offers or multiple cultural identities were already shaping the scientific theories of many thinkers of this multi-ethnic empire.
multiculturalism: In 1997, the newly elected Labour government committed to a multiculturalist approach at a national level, but after 2001, there was something of a backlash, led by centre-left commentators such as David Goodhart and Trevor Phillips.
multiculturalism: Among those who speak these indigenous languages are people from Bantu, Sudanic, Baka, Wodaabe (or Mbororo) and even primitive hunter-gatherer groups known as Pygmies.
multiculturalism: Putnam conducted a nearly decade-long study on how multiculturalism affects social trust.
multiculturalism: There are over 600 ethnic groups in Indonesia.
multiculturalism: As the looting and destruction took place, a number of Chinese Indonesians, as well as looters, were killed.
multiculturalism: The Economist argued that Canada's multiculturalism was a source of strength that united the diverse population and by attracting immigrants from around the world was also an engine of economic growth as well.
multiculturalism: Groups associated with an indigenous, aboriginal or autochthonous ethnic group and settler-descended ethnic groups are often the focus.
multiculturalism: However, this transmigration program and close interactions between people of different cultural backgrounds caused socio-cultural problems, as the inter-ethnics interactions have not always been conducted harmoniously.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism is seen by its supporters as a fairer system that allows people to truly express who they are within a society, that is more tolerant and that adapts better to social issues.
multiculturalism: A similar policy exists in politics as all Group Representation Constituencies are required to field at least one candidate from an ethnic minority.
multiculturalism: The Javanese are the largest ethnic group in Indonesia who make up nearly 42% of the total population.
multiculturalism: In 1995, Kazakhstan created the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, an advisory body designed to represent the country's ethnic minorities.
multiculturalism: Nevertheless, Indonesia today still struggles and has managed to maintain unity and inter-cultural harmony, through a national adherence of pro-pluralism policy of Pancasila; promoted and enforced by the government and its people.
multiculturalism: These pluralist policies have come under pressure from racialist Malay parties, who oppose perceived subversion of Malay rights.
multiculturalism: Mainly from Spain, Italy, Germany, Poland and England, they represent 37% of its population.
multiculturalism: This period also saw a significant wave of immigrants from Algeria.
multiculturalism: In some, ethnic communalism is a major political issue.
multiculturalism: This Oceanian country is home to over eight million people that are divided into hundreds of different indigenous ethnic groups and cultures with over 820 different indigenous languages.
multiculturalism: South Africa also officially recognises 11 languages including English, making it third behind Bolivia and India in most official languages.
multiculturalism: General Guillermo Rodríguez Lara, then president of the republic, was in town (…).
multiculturalism: The greater the diversity, the fewer people voted and the less they volunteered for community projects; also, trust among neighbours was only half that of homogenous communities.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism has been official policy in several Western nations since the 1970s, for reasons that varied from country to country, including the fact that many of the great cities of the Western world are increasingly made of a mosaic of cultures.
multiculturalism: Cities such as São Paulo are home to migrants from Japan, Italy, Lebanon, Portugal, and Africa.
multiculturalism: There are also more than 700 living languages spoken in Indonesia and although predominantly Muslim the country also has large Christian and Hindu populations.
multiculturalism: The three most common languages are Zulu, Xhosa, and Afrikaans.
multiculturalism: Besides English, Singapore recognizes three other languages—Malay, Mandarin Chinese and Tamil.
multiculturalism: The Achaemenid Empire founded by Cyrus the Great followed a policy of incorporating and tolerating various cultures.
multiculturalism: The Government then embraced a policy of community cohesion instead.
multiculturalism: Serbia has initiated talks through Stabilisation and Association Agreement on 7 November 2007.
multiculturalism: "Darius, who had an exceptional place in terms of Achaemenid multiculturalism", symbolized 28 conquered communities on his relief.
multiculturalism: In the presence of such ethnic diversity, Putnam maintains that, "[W]e hunker down.
multiculturalism: Susan Moller Okin, a feminist professor of political philosophy, argued in 1999, in "Is multiculturalism bad for women?", that the principle that all cultures are equal means that the equal rights of women in particular are sometimes severely violated.
multiculturalism: After the war, after Algeria gained its independence, the free circulation between France and Algeria was once again allowed, and the number of Algerian immigrants started to increase drastically.
multiculturalism: After the fall of Suharto in 1998 into the 2000s, a number of inter-ethnic and inter-religious clashes erupted in Indonesia.
multiculturalism: Although there was a presence of, Vietnamese in France since the late-nineteenth century (mostly students and workers), a wave of Vietnamese migrated after 1954.
multiculturalism: Unity, under this ideology, is seen as an essential feature of the nation and the nation-state; unity of descent, unity of culture, unity of language, and often unity of religion.
multiculturalism: The Republic of India's state boundaries are largely drawn based on linguistic groups; this decision led to the preservation and continuation of local ethno-linguistic sub-cultures, except for the Hindi sprachraum which is itself divided into many states.
multiculturalism: The emergence of an increasingly global youth culture in the 1920s, which accelerated significantly from the 1950s onward, made it easier for young people around the world to find shared reference points in food, music, film, literature, and other forms of artistic expression.
multiculturalism: Finally there are multiculturalist republicans who envision a pluralist conception of French identity and seek an appreciation of the positive values brought to France by the minority cultures.
multiculturalism: A major attack on multiculturalism came in Stasi Report of 2003 which denounces "Islamism" as deeply opposed to the mainstream interpretations of French culture.
multiculturalism: The Chinese Indonesians were treated as the scapegoat of 1997 Asian financial crisis, a result of ongoing discrimination and segregation policies enforced during Suharto's New Order regime.
multiculturalism: After the betrayal of Hernán Cortés to the Aztecs, the Spanish conquered the Aztec Empire and colonized indigenous people.
multiculturalism: He bases this on his opinion that human rights fall short in protecting the rights of minorities, as the state has no stake in protecting the minorities.
multiculturalism: It confirmed that decision when it decided to actively recruit foreign migrants to meet the economic and demographic needs of a fast-growing society.
multiculturalism: Hindi (spoken in the form of Hindustani) is the official federal language, English has the federal status of associate/subsidiary official language and each state has its own state official language (in the Hindi sprachraum, this reduces to bilingualism).
multiculturalism: There are many other ethnic groups such as Arab Mexicans, Afro-Mexicans and Asian Mexicans.
multiculturalism: In a 2019 report, the Danish Immigration Service and the Ministry of Education found this to be false.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism is the coexistence of multiple cultures.
multiculturalism: Likewise, in Western Europe, the use of many local dialects decreased.
multiculturalism: Tense incidents however have included attacks on Chinese temples and Indonesian politician Basuki Tjahaja Purnama being given a two year prison sentence for blasphemy due to comments he made to his supporters in September 2016.
multiculturalism: Will Kymlicka argues for "group differentiated rights", that help both religious and cultural minorities operate within the larger state as a whole, without impinging on the rights of the larger society.
multiculturalism: Nationalism further accelerated cultural homogenization in the 20th century.
multiculturalism: The "harkis" were Algerians who supported the French during the Algerian War; once the war was over, they were deeply resented by other Algerians, and thus had to flee to France.
multiculturalism: Turkey is a country that straddles both Europe and Asia.
multiculturalism: During the period of reconstruction, France lacked the labour to do so, and as a result; the French Government was eager to recruit immigrants coming from all over Europe, the Americas, Africa and Asia.
multiculturalism: The Chinese and Arabs, are the only two significant immigrant minorities in Serbia.
multiculturalism: The relaxation of migration led to an influx of new migration to New Zealand in the 1980s.
multiculturalism: Māori makes up 3.7% of the population's speaking language.
multiculturalism: A distinction is then made between Rossiyane (Russian citizens) and Russkie (ethnic Russians).
multiculturalism: The previously prevalent Indian caste system describes the social stratification and social restrictions in the Indian subcontinent, in which social classes are defined by thousands of endogamous hereditary groups, often termed jātis or castes.
multiculturalism: Despite centuries of acculturation with native Indonesians, because of their disproportionate influence on Indonesian economy, and alleged question of national loyalty, Chinese Indonesians have suffered discrimination.
multiculturalism: Providence has been pleased to give this one connected country to one united people – a people descended from the same ancestors, speaking the same language, professing the same religion, attached to the same principles of government, very similar in their manners and customs...
multiculturalism: In 2017, the Norwegian immigrant population was made up of: citizens of EU and EEA countries (41.2%); citizens of Asian countries, including Turkey (32.4%); citizens of African countries (13.7%); and citizens of non-EU/EEA European, North American, South American and Oceanian countries (12.7%).
multiculturalism: Further, India does not have any national language.
multiculturalism: In general, peoples with Christianity as the dominant religion were perceived to be culturally closer than peoples from Muslim countries.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism in Canada is often globally recognized as one of the country's significant accomplishments in diversity management, and a key distinguishing element of Canadian national identity.
multiculturalism: African influence can be seen in their music.
multiculturalism: Although many initially returned to the country after a few years, as the Vietnam War situation worsened, a majority decided to remain in France and brought their families over as well.
multiculturalism: He emphasized that he had always believed all Ecuadorians to be part indigenous, all sharing something of the blood of the Inca Atahualpa, and that although he did not know how he acquired such blood, he was certain he too was part Indian.
multiculturalism: The Sundanese, Malay, and Madurese are the next largest groups in the country.
multiculturalism: Homogenization is taking place worldwide in the 21st century, with the decline of minority languages a major indicator of this trend.
multiculturalism: The remainder identify as Asian, Arab, African, Pacific Islander and Latin American.
multiculturalism: Philosophers, psychologists and historians and early sociologists such as Charles Sanders Peirce, William James, George Santayana, Horace Kallen, John Dewey, W.
multiculturalism: The Turkish migrant crisis (which is a part of the wider European migrant crisis) was a period during the 2010s characterised by a high number of people fleeing to Turkey, especially refugees fleeing the Syrian Civil War, and caused a backlash and anti-migrant sentiment in Turkish society.
multiculturalism: It is also meant to foster social cohesion between the social classes and races of Singapore, and prevent neglected areas or districts and ethnic enclaves from developing – known as the Ethnic Integration Policy (EIP).
multiculturalism: It is the cornerstone that has helped Korea survive adversity.
multiculturalism: Studies estimated 46 million Americans ages 14 to 24 to be the most diverse generation in American society.
multiculturalism: [...] Koreans are immersed in their culture and are thus blind to its characteristics and quirks.
multiculturalism: It promotes structural changes in various aspects of life from education to economic to social integration.
multiculturalism: Kazakhstan was one of a few countries in post-Soviet territories that avoided interethnic clashes and conflicts in the period of USSR's final crisis and its eventual breakup.
multiculturalism: Foreigners, expatriates, and immigrants are often rejected by the mainstream South Korean society and face discrimination.
multiculturalism: In 2009 and 2010, controversy erupted in Texas as the state's curriculum committee made several changes to the state's requirements, often at the expense of minorities.
multiculturalism: She goes on to argue against the notion of special rights as she feels cultures are mutually constructive, and are shaped by the dominant culture.
multiculturalism: The Broadcasting Act of 1991 asserts the Canadian broadcasting system should reflect the diversity of cultures in the country.
multiculturalism: This has resulted from traditionally disadvantaged communities in public employment such as the policing of the same locality, apprehension of owners in giving properties for sale or rent and of society in accepting inter-marriages.
multiculturalism: In A Letter Concerning Toleration (1689), John Locke acknowledged that political disturbances were frequently justified in religious terms, but maintained that such unrest typically stemmed from the mistreatment of religious minorities rather than from the beliefs of particular faiths.
multiculturalism: Brian Barry advocates a difference-blind approach to culture in the political realm and he rejects group-based rights as antithetical to the universalist liberal project, which he views as based on the individual.
multiculturalism: On 14 May 1975, a unanimous Swedish parliament passed an act on a new multiculturalist immigrant and ethnic minority policy put forward by the social democratic government, that explicitly rejected the ideal ethnic homogeneity and the policy of assimilation.
multiculturalism: Following the September 11 attacks in the United States and the murders of Pim Fortuyn (in 2002) and Theo van Gogh (in 2004), there was increased political debate on the role of multiculturalism in the Netherlands.
multiculturalism: People in diverse communities "don't trust the local mayor, they don't trust the local paper, they don't trust other people and they don't trust institutions," writes Putnam.
multiculturalism: One of the reasons given was that second-generation immigrants may marry someone from their country of origin, which may cause Danish not to be spoken at home, which would put the children at a disadvantage in school.
multiculturalism: They influenced the indigenous religion, politics, culture and ethnicity.
multiculturalism: She continued to say that immigrants should integrate and adopt Germany's culture and values.
multiculturalism: The Syrians, Lebanese and Palestinians are the largest post-independence immigrants to the country, so much so that Colombia has the second largest Arab diaspora in Latin America, with a little more than 3.2 million descendants, which represents 6.4% of its population.
multiculturalism: "Immigration from countries outside the EEA must be strictly enforced to ensure a successful integration.
multiculturalism: The Indian constitution also provides SC's and ST's with protective measures that ensure equality, which is the main issue faced by members of both communities.
multiculturalism: European countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the Netherlands have long-standing diverse societies due to colonial migration, labor migration, and flows of refugees.
multiculturalism: With more than one million foreigners in [South] Korea, 2 percent of the population comes from other cultures." He further opined:
multiculturalism: Malik argues that Salter pays insufficient attention to historical context.
multiculturalism: In addition, the rigid religious divides in Western countries softened due to the declining influence of organized religion and the advance of secularization.
multiculturalism: In Salter’s view group differences are portrayed as a constant and universal feature of human nature.
multiculturalism: There are two views: the Harvard Institute of Economic Research points to the fact that Brazil has a large mixed-race population, while researcher Erkan Gören of the University of Oldenburg notes that virtually all Brazilians speaks Portuguese.
multiculturalism: So the total size of the lower castes in India is estimated to be around 70 percent of the country's population whereas the upper caste make up around 18 percent of the population.
multiculturalism: Multiculturalism as a political philosophy involves ideologies and policies which vary widely.
multiculturalism: Some nation-states pursued violent policies of cultural assimilation and even ethnic cleansing.
multiculturalism: In Serbia, there are 19 officially recognised ethnic groups with a status of national minorities.
multiculturalism: Studies show that factors such as economic inequality and trust in government are much more important for social cohesion than diversity.
multiculturalism: In the 19th century, millions of people from diverse ethnic and religious backgrounds migrated to the United States and Europe, in search of better economic opportunities or to escape persecution.
multiculturalism: Bolivia's political administrations have endorsed multicultural politics and in 2009 Bolivia's Constitution was inscribed with multicultural principles.
multiculturalism: The first edition covered Buddhist, Hindu, Islamic, Jewish and Sikh faiths, with participation of representatives of the various religions.
multiculturalism: Others, however, like author Ed West, criticize the notion that the United Kingdom is or should be a multicultural society in the first place and that the project of diversity is misguided.
multiculturalism: In the 1990s, the public debate were generally optimistic on immigration and the prevailing view was that a multicultural policy would reduce the social economic disparities over time.
multiculturalism: He explained that the experience of Canadian governance—its commitment to pluralism and its support for the rich multicultural diversity of its people—is something that must be shared and would be of benefit to all societies in other parts of the world.
multiculturalism: The official languages of Luxembourg are German, French, and Luxembourgish all of which are supported in the Luxembourg government and education system.
multiculturalism: India has encountered religiously motivated violence, such as the Moplah Riots, the Bombay riots, the 1984 Sikh genocide, the 1990 Exodus of Kashmiri Hindus, the 2002 Gujarat riots, the 2008 Mumbai attacks, the 2012 Assam violence, the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, and the 2020 Delhi riots.
multiculturalism: The study concluded that while physical distance to the country of origin, also religion and other cultural expressions are significant for the perception of cultural familiarity.
multiculturalism: South Africa is the fifth-most populous country and one of the most developed countries in Africa.
multiculturalism: He asserted that his "extensive research and experience confirm the substantial benefits of diversity, including racial and ethnic diversity, to our society."
In a 2003 book On Genetic Interests, Ethnologist Frank Salter writes:
multiculturalism: Their population is composed of approximately 68% mestizo, which means of mixed race.
multiculturalism: In 2015, during the European migrant crisis, a total of 31,145 asylum seekers, most of whom came from Afghanistan and Syria, crossed the Norwegian border.
multiculturalism: This has added to a growing debate within Germany on the levels of immigration, its effect on Germany and the degree to which middle eastern immigrants have integrated into German society.
multiculturalism: There are sizeable populations of ethnic Kazakhs, Russians, Uzbeks, Ukrainians, Uighurs, Tatars, Germans and more in Kazakhstan.
multiculturalism: Despite the large amount of culturally diverse locations on the island, the Kuk Early Agricultural Site is the only UNESCO World heritage location.
multiculturalism: Mexico is an ethnically diverse country with a population composed of approximately 123 million in 2017.
multiculturalism: In France, for instance, the promotion of French led to the decline of regional languages such as Breton and Occitan.
multiculturalism: On a large scale, it can occur as a result of either legal or illegal migration to and from different jurisdictions around the world.
multiculturalism: Gbabandi allowed these indigenous groups to have a form of representation and a declared list of requirements that people of Cameroon had to abide by.
multiculturalism: According to migration researcher Hein de Haas, research anno 2023 shows that there is no systematic relationship between levels of immigration or ethnic diversity and social cohesion or trust.
multiculturalism: The ethnic mix of that time can only be experienced in a few areas, such as in the former Habsburg port city of Trieste.
multiculturalism: Critics of multiculturalism often debate whether the multicultural ideal of benignly co-existing cultures that interrelate and influence one another, and yet remain distinct, is sustainable, paradoxical, or even desirable.
multiculturalism: The Arab descent also predominates in the country.
multiculturalism: In 2005, Luxembourg officially promoted and implemented the objectives of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions.
multiculturalism: He blamed the party for the high level of Muslim immigration and accused it of "promoting multiculturalism".
multiculturalism: It made that decision years ago – perhaps unconsciously – when it decided to be a full participant in the emerging global economy.
multiculturalism: In 2001, Denmark, a liberal-conservative coalition government with the support of the Danish People's Party which instituted less pluralistic policy, geared more towards assimilation.
multiculturalism: Sarah Song views cultures as historically shaped entities by its members, and that they lack boundaries due to globalization, thereby making them stronger than others might assume.
multiculturalism: They argue that culture is not one definable thing based on one race or religion, but rather the result of multiple factors that change as the world changes.
multiculturalism: The preamble of Argentina's constitution explicitly promotes immigration and recognizes multiple citizenships held by its citizens.
multiculturalism: In 1987, New Zealand officially recognized the indigenous Māori language as a national language.
multiculturalism: Established after the 13 May racial riots of 1969, it sought to address the "significant imbalance" in the economic sphere where the minority especially the  Chinese population had substantial control over commercial activity in the country.
multiculturalism: The report found that, while the second-generation immigrants without a Western background do better than their parents, the same is not true for third-generation immigrants.
multiculturalism: A 2008 study which involved questionnaires sent to 5,000 people, showed that less than a quarter of the respondents (23%) wanted to live in areas characterised by cultural, ethnic and social diversity.
multiculturalism: The Malaysian New Economic Policy or NEP serves as a form of "racial equalization" in the view of the Malay-controlled government.
multiculturalism: It is easy to anticipate the needs and behavior of others.
multiculturalism: Today, such ethnic enclaves has mostly been eliminated, due to the contemporary Singapore's government policy to encourage further ethnic integration between the different races of Singapore.
multiculturalism: According to the 1961 Census of India, there are 1652 indigenous languages in the country.
multiculturalism: As Hernández explains, eugenics is “a pseudoscientific movement that sought to improve the human race by preserving the genetic purity of whites.” (Hernández, 2012, p.
multiculturalism: Malik also criticized the theory of ethnic nepotism, and argued that the field studies of favoritism shown to beggars of the benefactor's ethnic group are best explained by cultural factors.
multiculturalism: After the end of World War II in  1945, immigration significantly increased.
multiculturalism: Radio Television of Vojvodina broadcasts program in ten local languages.
multiculturalism: The absorption of the stream of immigrants became, in itself, a prominent feature of America's national myth.
multiculturalism: "Korea no longer has to decide whether it wants to become a multicultural society.
multiculturalism: The country used to have immigration policies similar to Australia's White Australia Policy and the United States Immigration Act of 1924, but it would later follow suit with Australia and Canada in the 1970s and adopt similar multicultural policies.
multiculturalism: In a study concluded in 2007, Harvard University professor of political science Robert D.
multiculturalism: The educational approach to multiculturalism has since spread to the grade school system, as school systems try to rework their curricula to introduce students to diversity earlier – often on the grounds that it is important for minority students to see themselves represented in the classroom.
multiculturalism: However, recent ethnic clashes and discrimination have been reported for groups such as Christians, ultraconservative Muslims, ethnic Dungans, Chechens, Tajiks, and LGBT people.
multiculturalism: Among these requirements were guaranteed land rights, peoples' consent to the usage of their sacred land, traditional chiefs and the ability to participate in "local, regional, and national levels" of political and economic matters.
multiculturalism: Apart from citizens of Nordic countries, all foreigners must apply for permanent residency in order to live and work in Norway.
multiculturalism: A 2015 study in the American Journal of Sociology challenged past research showing that racial diversity adversely affected trust.
multiculturalism: In India's northeast, people speaking Sino-Tibetan group of languages such as Meitei (Meitei-lon) and Bodo recognized by the Indian constitution and Austroasiatic languages are commonly found.
multiculturalism: The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community of Germany is the first Muslim group to have been granted "corporation under public law status", putting the community on par with the major Christian churches and Jewish communities of Germany.
multiculturalism: The remaining 10% comprises:
multiculturalism: Different groups could themselves determine religious and cultural matters, while state authorities would handle matters of housing and work policy.
multiculturalism: As a result, this established a sense of justice and acknowledgment among indigenous groups in Cameroon and posed for future battles for indigenous peoples' rights.
multiculturalism: He argued that any group subjected to systematic discrimination would be likely to resist such conditions.
multiculturalism: Housing in Singapore is governed by the Ethnic Integration Policy, which ensures an even ethnic distribution throughout Singapore.
multiculturalism: From 1962–75, the Algerian immigrant population increased from 350,000 to 700,000.
multiculturalism: Sacrifice for the nation is a given.
multiculturalism: These migrants consisted of those who were loyal to the colonial government and those married to French colonists.
multiculturalism: Though South Africa's cultural traditions may decline as it becomes more and more Westernised due to its development, it is still known for its diverse culture.
multiculturalism: Preceding independence of the Federation of Malaya, a social contract was negotiated as the basis of a new society.
multiculturalism: In 1985, the Law Commission Act was passed which required the New Zealand Law Commission to review laws while taking into account both the indigenous Māori of New Zealand and New Zealand's multicultural character.
multiculturalism: Putnam adds that his "extensive research and experience confirm the substantial benefits of diversity, including racial and ethnic diversity, to our society."
multiculturalism: As a consequence, an official national policy of multiculturalism was adopted in the early-1980s.
multiculturalism: In 2016, the number of asylum seekers dramatically reduced by almost 90%, with 3460 asylum seekers coming to Norway.
multiculturalism: Two years later President Megawati Sukarnoputri declared that the Chinese New Year (Imlek) would be marked as a national holiday from 2003.
multiculturalism: This unique arrangement has been called by historians a "multicultural cliche".
multiculturalism: Difficult and painful political and economic initiatives are endured without discussion or debate.
multiculturalism: However, there is still a lack of school engagement in these matters.
multiculturalism: He surveyed 26,200 people in 40 American communities, finding that when the data were adjusted for class, income and other factors, the more racially diverse a community is, the greater the loss of trust.
multiculturalism: Murrah building in Oklahoma City, which killed 168 people).
multiculturalism: 21 Roma political organisations were founded between 1997–2003 in Bulgaria.
multiculturalism: As a philosophy, multiculturalism began as part of the pragmatism movement at the end of the 19th century in Europe and the United States, then as political and cultural pluralism at the turn of the 20th century.
multiculturalism: Many nation-states in Africa, Asia, and the Americas are culturally diverse and are 'multicultural' in a descriptive sense.
multiculturalism: In countries and regions where income inequality is low and where people trust their government, social cohesion remains strong even with high levels of diversity.
multiculturalism: Rather, it was found that promoting diversity actually helps in advancing disadvantaged students.
multiculturalism: Some countries in the European Union have introduced policies for "social cohesion", "integration", and (sometimes) "assimilation".
multiculturalism: Malaysians of Indian descent comprise about 7% of the population.
multiculturalism: However, the Mauritian society includes people from many different ethnic and religious groups: Hindu, Muslim and Indo-Mauritians, Mauritian Creoles (of African and Malagasy descent), Buddhist and Roman Catholic Sino-Mauritians and Franco-Mauritians (descendants of the original French colonists).
multiculturalism: India (officially) follows a three-language policy.
multiculturalism: James Trotman argues that multiculturalism is valuable because it "uses several disciplines to highlight neglected aspects of our social history, particularly the histories of women and minorities [...and] promotes respect for the dignity of the lives and voices of the forgotten.
multiculturalism: Despite the anti-multiculturalist protestations of the Sweden Democrats, multiculturalism remains official policy in Sweden.
multiculturalism: As such, it is considered a unique part of Singaporean culture, being commonly associated with the country.
multiculturalism: He killed 8 people by bombing government buildings in Oslo and massacred 69 young people at a youth summer camp held by the Labour Party, who were in power at the time.
multiculturalism: The Canadian Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism is often referred to as the origins of modern political awareness of multiculturalism.
multiculturalism: The White Australia Policy was dismantled after World War II by various changes to immigration policy, although the official policy of multiculturalism was not formally introduced until 1972.
multiculturalism: Several regions in the then British Malaya such as Penang, Malacca and Singapore became Chinese dominated.
multiculturalism: The contract as reflected in the 1957 Malayan Constitution and the 1963 Malaysian Constitution states that the immigrant groups are granted citizenship, and Malays' special rights are guaranteed.
multiculturalism: The "pieds-noirs" were European settlers who moved to Algeria, but migrated back to France since 1962 when Algeria declared independence.
multiculturalism: Shared values create harmony.
multiculturalism: At the beginning of the 20th century, 14.7% of the U.S.
multiculturalism: Globalization has further reduced cultural differences.
multiculturalism: Sweden has from the early 1970s experienced a greater share of non-Western immigration than the other Scandinavian countries, which consequently have placed multiculturalism on the political agenda for a longer period of time.
multiculturalism: Thereby, the process of integrating has to start from the beginning for each generation.
multiculturalism: Instead, it has reinscribed the prevalent racial order in a ‘new’ narration of the nation” (Rahier, 2008, p.
multiculturalism: In diverse communities, we don't trust people who do not look like us".
multiculturalism: It can describe a mixed ethnic community area where multiple cultural traditions exist or a single country.
multiculturalism: Due to migration within Indonesia (as part of government transmigration programs or otherwise), there are significant populations of ethnic groups who reside outside of their traditional regions.
multiculturalism: Dick Lamm, former three-term Democratic governor of the US state of Colorado, argued that "diverse peoples worldwide are mostly engaged in hating each other—that is, when they are not killing each other.
multiculturalism: For example after World War I, much of the former ethnic diversity in the area of the former Habsburg monarchy disappeared.
multiculturalism: The latter 30% of the population is a part of the mestizo, which are a people mixed with European and indigenous ancestry.
multiculturalism: In sociology and everyday usage, it is usually a synonym for ethnic or cultural pluralism in which various ethnic and cultural groups exist in a single society.
multiculturalism: Moscow beggars receive more gifts from fellow ethnics than from other ethnies  [sic].
multiculturalism: Korea is faced by a different decision today: what type of multicultural society does it want to be?"
The Korea Times suggested in 2009 that South Korea was likely to become a multicultural society.
multiculturalism: Joseph Cathedral), and Orthodox Judaism (Sofia Synagogue, the third-largest synagogue in Europe).
multiculturalism: From the 16th century larger nation states were formed.
multiculturalism: Pluralism, diversity and multiculturalism is a daily fact of life in Indonesia.
multiculturalism: There are cultural influences dating back to ancient Hellenic, Mediterranean, Semitic and Iranian civilizations which diffused and mingled in myriad ways over a period of centuries.
multiculturalism: International travel and the rise of television and the internet promoted the development of both national and international culture.
multiculturalism: In New Zealand, which is officially bi-cultural, multiculturalism has been seen as a threat to the Māori as an attempt by the New Zealand Government to undermine Māori demands for self-determination and encourage assimilation.
multiculturalism: Though 97% of Argentina's population self-identify as of European descent and mestizo to this day a high level of multiculturalism remains a feature of Argentina's culture, allowing foreign festivals and holidays (e.g.
multiculturalism: The second edition, published in 2002, added Christian, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander religions and the Baháʼí Faith to the list of religions.
multiculturalism: About 25% of the population are Malaysians of Chinese descent.
