musician: Musicians may specialize in a musical genre, although many perform across a variety of styles and often blend or cross genres.
musician: Examples of performers include, but are not limited to, instrumentalists and singers who perform for an audience.
musician: Musicians include songwriters, who write both music and lyrics for songs; conductors, who direct a musical performance; and performers, who perform for an audience.
musician: A composer is a musician who creates musical compositions.
musician: A conductor, by way of gestures, leads and provides live direction for, or conducts, an ensemble, typically an orchestra or choral group.
musician: A music producer, while not a musician outright, may themselves be a musician.
musician: The conductor stands on a raised podium and communicates with the musicians through hand gestures or eye contact.
musician: According to the United States Employment Service, "musician" is a general term used to designate a person who follows music as a profession.
musician: They often collaborate closely with artists, musicians, sound engineers, and other industry professionals.
musician: Those who mainly write the words for songs may be referred to as lyricists.
musician: A musician is someone who composes, conducts, or performs music.
musician: The title is principally used for those who write classical music or film music.
musician: Those who write the music for popular songs may be called songwriters.
musician: Their musical output is influenced by a range of factors, including culture, skill set, life experience, education, and creative preferences.
musician: an orchestra, a choir or a pop group).
musician: A musician who records and releases music is often referred to as a recording artist; while a musician who primarily writes and records art music, media soundtracks, and scores—including for films, theatrical stage productions, and video games—or classical music is usually called a composer.
musician: A conductor directs a musical performance; conducting has been defined as "the art of directing the simultaneous performance of several players or singers by the use of gesture".
musician: Musicians may perform on their own or as part of a group, band or orchestra.
musician: A music producer plays a crucial role in shaping the sound of an album or song, overseeing the recording process, and guiding the overall creative direction.
musician: A music performer is generally either a singer (also known as a vocalist), who provides vocals, or an instrumentalist, who plays a musical instrument.
musician: A musician can perform as a solo artist or as a part of an ensemble (e.g.
