nascar: The privately owned company was founded by Bill France Sr.
nascar: In 2007, NASCAR chairman Brian France indicated that all options, except an outright ban of Cup competitors, were still being considered.
nascar: In 2010, NASCAR officially sanctioned its first sim racing esports series, partnering with iRacing to form the NASCAR iRacing.com Series.
nascar: Monster Energy became the title sponsor in 2017, which changed the series' name to Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series.
nascar: Additional changes included the removal of the "playoff points" system, and that race wins would award an increased 55 points, but would no longer result in automatically qualifying for the Chase.
nascar: NASCAR was founded by Bill France on February 21, 1948, with the help of several other drivers.
nascar: Some think that an increase in international diversity would translate into growth and generate greater opportunities for NASCAR fans.
nascar: Four drivers are eliminated at the end of each preliminary round of the Chase in the O'Reilly Auto Parts Series, which also mirrors the Cup Series Chase.
nascar: In 2004, NASCAR also began to sanction a mini stock racing series in Mexico, known as the Mexico T4 Series.
nascar: Additionally, six races will be televised on NBCSN.
nascar: The drivers brought coupes, hardtops, convertibles, and sports cars to compete in an event to determine the fastest cars, and best drivers.
nascar: In addition, veteran drivers who have had only moderate success at the other two levels of the sport have revitalized their careers in the truck series, including Ron Hornaday Jr., Todd Bodine, Mike Skinner, and Johnny Benson.
nascar: This sim racing series is made of up of five "Amateur Series" divisions, the NASCAR iRacing.com Pro Series, and the PEAK Antifreeze NASCAR iRacing Series (NPAiS), one of iRacing's World Championship Series.
nascar: Bill France delivered the prize money and 4-foot-high trophy to Flock at the end of the season, along with $3,000 in prize money (equivalent to $43,300 in 2025) to other drivers who competed throughout the season.
nascar: 11th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in a lawsuit against Bitconnect that the Securities Act of 1933 extends to targeted solicitation using social media.
nascar: In May 2007, NNS director Joe Balash confirmed that NASCAR was exploring options to deal with the Buschwhacker controversy.
nascar: The ARCA Menards Series' feeder divisions, which consists of East and West divisions, race pro-stock cars that are similar to older Xfinity Series cars, although they are less powerful.
nascar: The name "The Chase" would also return, replacing the "Playoffs" term used from 2017 to 2025.
nascar: Races were held in several divisions, which eventually morphed into what is the "ladder": the Cup Series at the top, the O'Reilly Auto Parts Series second, and the Truck Series third, with smaller series spread out below.
nascar: After the 2019 season, NASCAR declined an offer from Monster Energy to remain the title sponsor of the top series.
nascar: The impact-absorbing "SAFER Barrier" had been in use as early as 1998, but NASCAR hesitated to install those walls out of concerns that they may bring about unintended consequences of aggravating the crashes, and possibly because of the effort needed to clean up the debris from the damaged walls.
nascar: International Speedway Corporation (ISC) was founded by Bill France Sr.
nascar: As in both the Cup Series and O'Reilly Series, four drivers are eligible for the series title entering the final race.
nascar: In 2008, the premier series title name became the Sprint Cup Series, as part of the merger between Nextel and Sprint.
nascar: In December 2006, NASCAR also announced the creation of a new series in Mexico, the NASCAR Corona Series (now Mexico Series), replacing the existing Desafío Corona Series, to begin in 2007.
nascar: Prior to the start of the 2026 season, NASCAR announced that their postseason would revert to a format similar to the one used in 2004, in which a single points cutoff and reset would take place at the end of the 26-race regular season.
nascar: Chevrolet, Ford, and Toyota compete in each series.
nascar: In the past, NASCAR also sanctioned the AutoZone Elite Division, which raced late-model cars that were lighter and less powerful than Cup Series cars, and was originally split into four divisions: Northwest, Southwest, Southeast, and Midwest.
nascar: The "kill switch" throttle, was mandated after the death of Adam Petty, along with the requirements of an anti-spill bladder in fuel cells.
nascar: As NASCAR has made moves to improve its national appeal, it has begun racing at new tracks, and ceased racing at some traditional ones – a sore spot for the traditional fan base.
nascar: The most recent series champion is Corey Heim in 2025.
nascar: The west division was originally known as the Winston West Series and raced throughout Southwestern and Coastal Pacific states.
nascar: France entered the 1936 Daytona event, finishing fifth.
nascar: Any increase in foreign competition is expected to raise the price of putting a car on the track.
nascar: Drivers were frequently victimized by unscrupulous promoters who would leave events with all the money before drivers were paid.
nascar: In early 2012, NASCAR announced that it would sanction the existing European-based Racecar Euro Series as a "NASCAR Touring Series".
nascar: With the sponsorship, the prize pool increased to $300,000.
nascar: The practice received criticism because it was thought to give the Cup Series teams an unfair advantage, and that the presence of the Cup Series drivers squeezes out Nationwide Series competitors who would otherwise be able to qualify.
nascar: Early in NASCAR's history, foreign manufacturers had shown interest in entering the series; British manufacturer MG entered cars and earned several placements.
nascar: In addition, wins were given an increased emphasis, with the 16 drivers with the most wins (15 if the points leader is winless; points leader will receive an automatic berth) gaining a spot in the chase.
nascar: Young Bill developed a relationship with Bob Barkhimer and his partner, Margo Burke.
nascar: Beginning in 2009, the series became the Camping World Truck Series.
nascar: He took over running the course in 1938.
nascar: France believed people would enjoy watching stock cars race.
nascar: France announced the foundation of the "National Championship Stock Car Circuit", otherwise known as NCSCC.
nascar: As a result, a new NASCAR.com was launched on January 3, 2013, which features a multimedia-oriented design enhanced to provide a higher level of fan interaction, and provide an improved second screen experience for viewers on mobile devices.
nascar: RAM also competes in the Truck Series.
nascar: Current content includes podcast, documentaries, television shows, and films.
nascar: At that point, the top sixteen drivers in the points standings would compete for the championship over the course of the next ten races, with the championship being awarded to the driver with the most points at the end of the season.
nascar: The Cup Series had its first title sponsor in 1972.
nascar: The O'Reilly Auto Parts Series Chase involves 12 drivers instead of the 16 participating in the Cup Series Chase.
nascar: Others frequently cite the dominance of the France family in NASCAR's business structure, policies, and decision making.
nascar: Earnhardt's death prompted NASCAR to implement the SAFER barrier and consider drastic improvements to the safety of the drivers.
nascar: NASCAR previously struck an exclusive deal with sports data solutions provider Genius Sports to develop an official NASCAR gaming offering for legal sportsbooks.
nascar: On October 18, 2019, the acquisition was completed.
nascar: Buddy Shuman won the 200-lap race, held on a half-mile (800 m) dirt track.
nascar: A new championship points system, the "Chase for the Nextel Cup", (renamed "Chase for the Sprint Cup" in 2008) was also developed, which reset the point standings with ten races to go, making only drivers in the top ten or within 400 points of the leader eligible to win the championship.
nascar: 2019 was the last season for both of the series before they are to go under the ARCA banner in 2020 as part of the unification of the NASCAR K&N Pro Series East and West and the ARCA Menards Series.
nascar: Barkhimer was a star of midget car racing from the World War II era, and later ran about 22 different speedways as the head of the California Stock Car Racing Association.
nascar: In 2011, NASCAR switched to E15 "green" fuel (15% ethanol and 85% gasoline) for all three touring series.
nascar: Initially, the cars raced with virtually no modifications on the factory models.
nascar: Baker is enshrined in the Automotive Hall of Fame, the Motorcycle Hall of Fame, and the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Hall of Fame.
nascar: Most recently, NASCAR has been challenged on the types and frequency of caution flags, with some critics suggesting the outcome of races is being manipulated, and that the intention is not safety, as NASCAR claims, but closer racing.
nascar: The NASCAR Cup Series (NCS) is the sport's highest level of professional competition.
nascar: Even with restrictions limiting points earnings to one national series, Cup drivers were still running and winning a vast majority of O'Reilly Auto Parts series races through 2015.
nascar: The Whelen All-American series is split into four car divisions as well as state and track championships separately.
nascar: Journal of History & Entertainment.
nascar: In 1935, Bill France Sr.
nascar: Instead of a singular title sponsor, four "premier partners" (Coca-Cola, Xfinity, Busch Beer and GEICO) would be closely affiliated with the top series, which was simply renamed the NASCAR Cup Series.
nascar: He promoted a few races before World War II.
nascar: One of the most often-cited proposals was for Cup Series drivers participating in the Nationwide Series to receive no points for their participation in a Nationwide race.
nascar: Daytona Beach had become synonymous with fast cars in 1936.
nascar: It is one of the three national divisions of NASCAR, together with the O'Reilly and Cup Series.
nascar: NASCAR drivers have made appearances in many television series and TV movies, including The Cleveland Show, Sullivan & Son, and Last Man Standing.
nascar: These include Kurt Busch and Carl Edwards (who both ran for Roush Racing).
nascar: Drivers raced on a 4.1-mile (6.6 km) course, consisting of a 1.5–2.0-mile (2.4–3.2 km) stretch of beach as one straightaway, and a narrow blacktop beachfront highway, State Road A1A, as the other.
nascar: The next competitive level, called Late Model Sportsman, gained the "Grand National" title passed down from the top division and soon found a sponsor in Busch Beer.
nascar: In the spring of 1954, NASCAR became a stock car sanctioning body on the Pacific Coast under Barky.
nascar: NASCAR racing heavily influenced Pixar's Cars franchise, with the third film in particular drawing inspiration from NASCAR's history.
nascar: On July 1, 2013, with partnership from NASCAR Whelen Engineering, the series was renamed the NASCAR Whelen Euro Series.
nascar: Richard Petty holds the Cup Series wins record with 200.
nascar: In 2019, per a branding request made by Camping World, the series was rebranded as the NASCAR Gander Outdoors Truck Series.
nascar: It is consequently the most popular and most profitable NASCAR series.
nascar: After his death, the famous transcontinental race the "Cannonball Run" and the film that was inspired by it were both named in his honor.
nascar: Supreme Court ruling overturning the federal PASPA sports betting prohibition.
nascar: By early 1947, Bill France saw the potential for a unified series of racing competitors.
nascar: His father asked him to look up Bob Barkhimer in San Jose, California.
nascar: Bubba Wallace, the only African-American NASCAR top-circuit driver, drove the 2020 spring Martinsville race in a car with Black Lives Matter livery, and appeared in an anti-racism video with a number of white drivers.
nascar: The roadster division was quickly abandoned, while the modified division now operates as the NASCAR Whelen Modified Tour.
nascar: Similar to Cup, starting in 2017 "The Chase" moniker was dropped and the final seven races are now referred to as the O'Reilly Auto Parts Playoffs.
nascar: In 2010, NASCAR saw television ratings drop 10% from the year before, which was down 33% off its peak in 2005.
nascar: Wendell Scott was the first African-American to win a race in the Grand National Series, NASCAR's highest level.
nascar: With Monster Energy's title sponsorship, NASCAR also abandoned "The Chase" name and began referring to the last 10 races simply as "the playoffs" similar to most other sports.
nascar: Juan Pablo Montoya, Patrick Carpentier, Dario Franchitti, Kimi Räikkönen, and Jenson Button are among the foreign-born big names who have crossed over from Formula One and the Indy car circuit.
nascar: Fire-retardant driver suits were required after the death of Fireball Roberts, who died from complications of burns suffered in a crash when flames engulfed his car during a Charlotte race.
nascar: The record for most championships is 7, held by three drivers: Richard Petty, Dale Earnhardt, and Jimmie Johnson.
nascar: The two straights were connected by two tight, deeply rutted and sand covered turns at each end.
nascar: It coincided with the 100th anniversary of the prestigious endurance race at the Circuit de la Sarthe in Le Mans, Sarthe, France, and the Camaro entered as a Garage 56 (Innovative) entry.
nascar: Another significant change involved the qualifying process for the Chase.
nascar: The east division was originally divided into the Busch North series, which raced in Northeastern states, and the Busch East Series, which raced throughout Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic states.
nascar: On January 11, 2011, NASCAR.com reported that beginning with the 2011 season, drivers would be allowed to compete for the championship in only one of NASCAR's three national series in a given season, although they could continue to run in multiple series.
nascar: following the 2018 U.S.
nascar: The vast majority of NASCAR drivers are American, but drivers from Canada, Mexico, Europe, Australasia, and other places have competed.
nascar: He was posthumously inducted into the NASCAR Hall of Fame in Charlotte, North Carolina, January 30, 2015.
nascar: In 2007, NASCAR announced it was expanding "The Chase" from ten to twelve drivers, eliminating the 400-point cutoff, and giving a ten-point bonus to the top twelve drivers for each of the races they have won out of the first 26.
nascar: After the deaths of Adam Petty, Kenny Irwin and Tony Roper in 2000 and Dale Earnhardt in 2001, NASCAR revisited the idea of decreasing the G-forces a driver sustained during a crash.
nascar: Stock car racing in the United States has its origins in bootlegging during Prohibition, when drivers ran bootleg whiskey made primarily in the Appalachian region of the United States.
nascar: Fitzpatrick and D.
nascar: At the same time, the NASCAR iRacing Pro Series would switch to using the Xfinity Series Camaro, Mustang and Camry models, to replicate the progression to the real life Cup series cars used in the NPAiS.
nascar: The simulator begins with US Legends cars before moving to Modified Tour cars.
nascar: Red Byron beat Marshall Teague in the modified division race.
nascar: Chad Knaus, Johnson's crew chief during each of his Cup Series championships, was project manager, while the car bore #24 in honor of Jeff Gordon.
nascar: List of the closest NASCAR Cup Series finishes
List of NASCAR champions
List of NASCAR seasons
List of NASCAR series
List of NASCAR teams
List of NASCAR tracks
NASCAR in Australia
NASCAR Rookie of the Year
NASCAR rules and regulations
nascar: On May 8, 2018, NASCAR and Camping World announced the Truck Series title sponsor would be moved to Camping World subsidiary Gander Outdoors starting in 2019.
nascar: It is primarily a Midwestern United States series.
nascar: The Whelen All-American Series is the base for stock car racing, developing NASCAR names such as Clint Bowyer, Jimmy Spencer, Tony Stewart, the Bodine brothers, and many others along the way.
nascar: NASCAR also partnered with the developers of Jailbreak to launch NASCAR Speed Hub to celebrate NASCAR's 75th anniversary.
nascar: The first NASCAR race held outside the US was in Stamford Park, Ontario, Canada, on July 1, 1952.
nascar: In 2020, Coca-Cola became the entitlement sponsor of the series and it was renamed the eNASCAR Coca-Cola iRacing Series.
nascar: The NASCAR Canada Series is a NASCAR racing series in Canada that derives from the old CASCAR Super Series (founded in 1981 and bought out by NASCAR in 2006).
nascar: These drivers have made an impact on NASCAR not only by winning races and dominating road courses, but by expanding NASCAR's point of view.
nascar: Nearly 40 events were held during the season, and attendance often exceeded the venue's capacity.
nascar: Byron won the 1948 national championship.
nascar: The mandate came about in October after Blaise Alexander, racing for the ARCA series, died in a crash that resulted in the same injuries sustained as Earnhardt.
nascar: 1972 is often acknowledged as the beginning of NASCAR's "modern era".
nascar: The strictly stock division debuted with a 20-mile (32 km) exhibition in February 1949 near Miami.
nascar: In 1996, the series was renamed the NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series to emphasize Craftsman's involvement.
nascar: There are 36 points-paying races in a season, along with the pre-season Clash and mid-season All-Star race.
nascar: Dale Earnhardt fatally suffered a fracture to the base of his skull after his car slammed into the concrete wall in the 2001 Daytona 500.
nascar: The 1948 schedule featured 52 modified dirt track races.
nascar: In the early 1950s, the United States Navy stationed Bill France Jr.
nascar: When the AAA declined support of the venture, France proceeded to announce a set of rules and awards for the NCSCC.
nascar: The series was first considered something of an oddity or a "senior tour" for NASCAR drivers, but eventually grew in popularity and has seen drivers move straight to the Cup Series without running a full season in NASCAR O'Reilly Auto Parts Series competition.
nascar: It also manages the NASCAR website, the website for its endurance racing series IMSA, as well as some websites related to the sport such as Racing-Reference and Jayski's Silly Season Site (as of 2019, after ESPN.com stopped hosting the website).
nascar: The new series has races through six of Canada's provinces for a total of 13 events with TV coverage on TSN.
nascar: There has been talk of possible expansion with exhibition races in Japan and a return to Canada.
nascar: These dual-series drivers have been labeled "Buschwhackers", a play on words which combines the original series sponsor's name with the notion of being bushwhacked.
nascar: Instead of the four-round, 10-race format used in the Cup Series, the Chase in each of the two supporting series consists of three rounds and seven races in all, with each preliminary round consisting of three races.
nascar: The NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series features modified pickup trucks.
nascar: NASCAR acquired the series on April 27, 2018 after being privately owned for 60 years.
nascar: In 2011, NASCAR announced a number of major rules changes, the most significant being abandoning the previous points system.
nascar: This is NASCAR's oldest division, and the modern division has been operating since 1985 as the Winston Modified Series and later in 1994 as the Featherlite Trailers Modified Series.
nascar: In 2002, over 9,000 drivers had licenses from NASCAR to race at all levels.
nascar: The format is identical to that used in the O'Reilly Series, except that only eight drivers qualify for the playoffs (instead of 12 in the O'Reilly Series) and only two drivers are eliminated at the end of each preliminary round (instead of four in the O'Reilly Series).
nascar: On May 7, 2019, NASCAR announced a sports betting content partnership with The Action Network to provide editorial content and analysis to NASCAR.com, including recommended picks and value bets.
nascar: The winners of the All-American Series National Championship, the ARCA Menards Series, ARCA East and ARCA West championships, the Whelen Modified and Grand National Divisions, and the three national series are invited to Las Vegas in December to participate in Champions Week ceremonies.
nascar: If there are fewer than 16 winners, the remaining spots will be filled based on the conventional points system.
nascar: The modern incarnation of this series began in 1982, with sponsorship by Anheuser-Busch Brewing's Budweiser brand.
nascar: At 1:00 pm, France called to order the 35 men who represented the NCSCC on the top floor of the hotel.
nascar: France approached the American Automobile Association, or AAA, in hopes of obtaining financial backing for the venture.
nascar: The number of qualifying drivers remained at 12, but only the top 10  qualified solely on regular-season points.
nascar: Expanding into international markets could increase NASCAR's popularity and allow foreign sponsors and manufacturers to get involved in the sport.
nascar: Similar to Cup, starting in 2017 "The Chase" moniker was dropped and is now simply referred to as the Truck Series Playoffs.
nascar: Starting with the 2015 season finale, NASCAR began to add additional restrictions in regards to Cup drivers running O'Reilly races.
nascar: The ARCA Menards Series is a racing series that races at big touring series tracks and local racing series tracks.
nascar: GEICO departed the sport after the 2024 season.
nascar: Bootleggers needed to distribute their illicit products, and they typically used small, fast vehicles to better evade the police.
nascar: The cars are a bit different from the cars seen in America, being more akin to a late model, though steel tube-framed silhouette bodies powered by V8 engines is still the norm.
nascar: NASCAR has been far more aggressive with safety changes since Earnhardt's death, and as of 2024, no NASCAR driver has been involved in a fatal accident since.
nascar: The death of Dale Earnhardt has been seen as a "wake-up" call for NASCAR.
nascar: For example, Smokey Cook drove an MG to a 17th-place finish at the 1963 International 200.
nascar: As a result of that sponsorship, the Grand National Series became known as the Winston Cup Series starting in 1971, with a new points system and some significant cash benefits to compete for championship points.
nascar: Toyota generated early success winning several races off performances from Denny Hamlin and Kyle Busch.
nascar: They also own NASCAR Classics, a free online base of classic NASCAR races.
nascar: The NASCAR O'Reilly Auto Parts Series is the second-highest level of professional competition in NASCAR.
nascar: The original plans for NASCAR included three distinct divisions: modified, roadster, and strictly stock.
nascar: In May 2019, NASCAR announced that it would purchase ISC, including its 12 tracks, for $2 billion.
nascar: ISC was subsequently folded into NASCAR.
nascar: Jim Roper was the race winner due to Glenn Dunaway disqualification following the discovery of his altered rear springs.
nascar: Many drivers move up through the series before reaching the Cup Series.
nascar: In 2003, NASCAR standardized rules for its AutoZone Elite and Grand National divisions regional touring series as to permit cars in one series to race against cars in another series in the same division.
nascar: NASCAR said the partnership was intended to prepare for the spread of legal sports betting in the U.S.
nascar: February 13, 2025.
nascar: Kennington.
nascar: ISBN 9798310670457.
nascar: In the 1920s and 1930s, Daytona Beach supplanted France and Belgium as the preferred location for world land speed records.
nascar: Former chairman Brian France tried to ban the flying of Confederate flags at race tracks in 2015, which caused anger among fans.
nascar: On June 10, 2020, in the wake of protests related to the murder of George Floyd, NASCAR announced that the display of the Confederate flag will be prohibited from all of its events and properties.
nascar: NASCAR hosted its first event at Daytona Beach on February 15, 1948.
nascar: Each year, NASCAR sanctions over 1,500 races at over 100 tracks in 48 US states, as well as in Canada, Mexico, Brazil, and Europe.
nascar: It is considered to be one of the top-ranked motorsports organizations in the world and is one of the largest spectator sports leagues in America.
nascar: This means that four drivers are eligible for the series title entering the final race, as in the Cup Series.
nascar: Modifications for both safety and performance were allowed in time, and by the mid-1960s, the vehicles were purpose-built race cars with a stock-appearing body.
nascar: The top 15 (Grand National) or 10 (AutoZone Elite) in each series will race in a one-race playoff, called the NASCAR Toyota All-Star Showdown, to determine the annual AutoZone Elite and Grand National champions.
nascar: Originally scheduled for 2008, NASCAR adopted the use of unleaded fuel in all three of its top series in 2007.
nascar: Some think this could be a very positive move for NASCAR, which has seen its television ratings drop 21 percent between 2005 and 2007.
nascar: In November 2025, it was reported that NASCAR was backing a stock car racing-themed historical drama by John Fusco—Thunder Road—for AMC.
nascar: The series is planned to star Dennis Quaid .
nascar: Previously, the most consecutive championships had been three in a row by Cale Yarborough in the late 1970s, the only other time when a driver has won three or more NASCAR Cup Series championships in a row.
nascar: The Anheuser-Busch sponsorship expired at the end of 2007, being replaced by Nationwide Insurance from 2008 to 2014, and then sponsored by Comcast through its Xfinity brand from 2015 to 2025.
nascar: Each year, the champion of the NASCAR iRacing.com World Championship Series is invited to NASCAR's Championship Weekend at Homestead to receive $10,500 prize money and NASCAR championship trophy at the track.
nascar: Mechanic Bill France Sr.
nascar: On August 26, 2022 it was announced that the original series' sponsor, Craftsman, would return as the title sponsor starting in the 2023 season.
nascar: Of the 27 cars that started the event, only 10 managed to survive the ordeal, as officials halted the event 10 miles (16 km) short of the scheduled 250-mile (400 km) distance.
nascar: Reynolds Tobacco Company, which had been banned from television advertising, found a popular and demographically suitable consumer base in NASCAR fans and engaged NASCAR as a promotional outlet.
nascar: During the same 2-year period, NASCAR also saw the greatest drop in tickets prices observed in over a decade.
nascar: In 2023, to celebrate their 75th anniversary, NASCAR partnered with Chevrolet and Hendrick Motorsports to enter a Next Gen Camaro ZL1 in the 24 Hours of Le Mans.
nascar: The season usually has fewer races than the Cup Series, and the prize money is significantly lower.
nascar: As noted previously, the Chase format was extended to the Truck Series in 2016.
nascar: Writers and fans often use "Cup" to refer to the NCS and the ambiguous use of "NASCAR" as a synonym for the series is common.
nascar: NASCAR redesigned the racing vehicle with safety improvements, calling it the Car of Tomorrow, which debuted in 2007.
nascar: In 1984, it was renamed to the Busch Grand National Series, then later just the Busch Series.
nascar: The Strictly Stock Series was renamed the Grand National Series in 1950.
nascar: moved to Daytona Beach, Florida, from Washington, D.C., in 1935 to escape the Great Depression.
nascar: Street vehicles were lightened and reinforced.
nascar: In 1994, NASCAR announced the formation of the NASCAR SuperTruck Series presented by Craftsman.
nascar: This was a success, and the series was founded in 1948.
nascar: Wins throughout the season would also be awarded five more points than in previous seasons.
nascar: Furthermore, several drivers not only participated in both Cup and Busch/Nationwide/Xfinity/O'Reilly events on the same weekend but also began to compete in both series on a full-time basis.
nascar: Furthermore, those same drivers are ineligible to run the regular season finale, NOAPS playoff races, or Dash 4 Cash races.
nascar: Another general area of criticism, not only of NASCAR but other motorsports as well, includes questions about fuel consumption, emissions and pollution, and the use of lead additives in the gasoline.
nascar: Another topic on the NASCAR circuit is the increase in foreign born drivers and the effects they may have on the future of NASCAR.
nascar: The first series race followed in 1995.
nascar: The Whelen Modified Tour races open-wheel "modified" cars in Northern and Southern divisions.
nascar: The most recent series champion is Jesse Love in 2025.
nascar: The meeting was the first of four seminars in which France would outline his vision of an organized group of race car drivers.
nascar: The strictly stock division was put on hold as American automobile manufacturers were unable to produce family sedans quickly enough to meet post-war demand.
nascar: After a historic race between Ransom Olds and Alexander Winton in 1903, 15 records were set on what became the Daytona Beach Road Course between 1905 and 1935.
nascar: In 2018, iRacing announced a new, sanctioned qualifying ladder system for the NPAiS, the Road to Pro Series, using virtual Chevrolet and Toyota Camping World Trucks.
nascar: NASCAR Kinetics was established in 2009 with the mission of connecting college students nationwide to NASCAR, and mentored its last round of students in 2013.
nascar: Beginning in 2026, the series will be sponsored by O'Reilly Auto Parts and named the NASCAR O'Reilly Auto Parts Series.
nascar: Entering the 2026 season, Kyle Larson is the defending Cup Series champion.
nascar: established races in Daytona Beach, with the hope that people would come to watch races and that racers would race for him, as other organizers tended to fleece the winners of their payouts.
nascar: Many drivers are content running in Canada while others move up to bigger NASCAR series including J.
nascar: All Cup Series races are held in the United States and Mexico.
nascar: The competitors were paid as promised.
nascar: One of these would require all drivers to use the "HANS device" (Head And Neck Support Device), a device that keeps the driver's neck from going forward in a wreck.
nascar: The series was renamed again in 2020 to the NASCAR Gander RV & Outdoors Truck Series before returning to the Camping World Truck Series name in 2021.
nascar: At the end of the 1947 season, Bill France announced that there would be a series of meetings held at the Streamline Hotel in Daytona Beach beginning on December 14, 1947.
nascar: The company is a subsidiary of NASCAR and produces programs designed to promote the sport of professional stock car racing.
nascar: NASCAR partnered up with popular Roblox game Jailbreak, and the partnership was launched on November 5, 2021.
nascar: Johnson has the record for most consecutive with five consecutive Cup Series drivers' championships from 2006 to 2010.
nascar: In 2014, NASCAR announced another revamp to the Chase format, expanding the Chase pool to 16 drivers, and eliminating four drivers after every three races, leaving four drivers to compete for the championship at the season finale at Homestead.
nascar: Driver Milt Marion was declared the winner, and a young Bill France placed 5th at the end of the day.
nascar: His win in 2006, where he raced three cars for RCR and his race team, was the first of five consecutive titles in NBS/NNS that were won by Cup series regulars.
nascar: Beginning in the 2020 season, Cup drivers with more than three years of experience in the top series were limited to five races per season.
nascar: This event has been hosted at Irwindale Speedway in California since its inception.
nascar: In February 2022, the U.S.
nascar: The name originally chosen for the series was National Stock Car Racing Association; when it was pointed out that that name was already in use by a rival sanctioning body, "National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing", proposed by mechanic Red Vogt, was selected as the organization's name.
nascar: The car had a higher roof, wider cockpit, and the driver seat was located more toward the center of the vehicle.
nascar: As of 2025, NASCAR also produces NASCAR O'Reilly Auto Parts Series races broadcast by The CW under the NASCAR on The CW banner.
nascar: Fonty Flock was declared the champion after winning 7 events of the 24 that he entered.
nascar: The winner of a race would receive 43 points, with one-point decrements for each subsequent position (42 for second, 41 for third, and so on).
nascar: The company is headquartered in Daytona Beach, Florida.
nascar: He went to events with them, stayed weekends with them and generally became very familiar with racing on the west coast.
nascar: The first NASCAR Strictly Stock Series race was held at Charlotte Speedway (distinct from the modern Charlotte Motor Speedway) on June 19, 1949.
nascar: "Barky", as he was called by his friends, journeyed to Daytona Beach and met with Bill France Sr.
nascar: The series became known as the ARCA Menards Series East and ARCA Menards Series West starting in 2020, meaning 2019 was also K&N's last year as the series title sponsor.
nascar: The studio also produces content for the NASCAR Channel on Tubi.
nascar: The series merged with the American Le Mans Series in 2014 as a part of NASCAR's purchase of IMSA.
nascar: France declared that the winner of the 1947 NCSCC season would receive $1,000 (equivalent to $14,400 in 2025) and a trophy.
nascar: The first Commissioner of NASCAR was Erwin "Cannonball" Baker, a former stock car, motorcycle, and open-wheel racer who competed in the Indianapolis 500 and set over one hundred land speed records.
nascar: On December 14, 1947, France began talks with other influential racers and promoters at the Ebony Bar at the Streamline Hotel in Daytona Beach, Florida, that ended with the formation of NASCAR on February 21, 1948.
nascar: These races were popular entertainment in the rural Southern United States, and they are most closely associated with the Wilkes County region of North Carolina.
nascar: at the Moffett Federal Airfield in northern California.
nascar: The remaining two Chase drivers were the two drivers in the next 10 of the point standings (11th through 20th) with the most race wins in the regular season.
nascar: On December 5, NASCAR revealed their new sponsorship model.
nascar: It had previously asked fans to voluntarily stop flying the flag after the 2015 Charleston church shooting, but this did not end the practice.
nascar: In addition to the six main national series, NASCAR operates several other racing divisions under the NASCAR Regional banner.
nascar: He is tied with Dale Earnhardt and Jimmie Johnson for the championship record, with seven each.
nascar: In 2016, the Chase format was extended to both the Xfinity and Truck Series.
nascar: Recently, the increased number of Cup drivers competing consistently in the O'Reilly Auto Parts Series races has been hotly debated.
nascar: This level of honor and success in each diverse racing association earned Baker the title of "King of the Road".
nascar: NASCAR has been the target of criticism on various topics from various sources.
nascar: It was revealed in 2008 that a wrongful death lawsuit against NASCAR stemming from the crash of a company plane was settled for $2.4 million.
nascar: The cars continued to improve, and by the late 1940s, races featuring these cars were being run for pride and profit.
nascar: Beginning in 2010, the Nationwide cars adapted somewhat to the current "Car of Tomorrow" (or COT) design used by Cup cars, with different bodies from the Cup Series.
nascar: Throughout the race, the heavier cars got bogged down in the sand, while the lightweight Fords navigated the ruts of the course, eventually claiming the top 6 finishes for the race.
nascar: NASCAR has often implemented safety measures reactively in response to injuries or fatalities.
nascar: In 2008, the series came together in east and west divisions under sponsorship from Camping World as the Camping World Series.
nascar: Launched in 2012 as the Sprint Race series, in 2023 the series received NASCAR sanctioning and technical assistance, becoming the newest of the NASCAR international series.
nascar: While NASCAR had extended Turner's contract to operate the site through 2016, the association announced in January 2012 that it would take operation of the site back in-house in 2013.
nascar: While it was founded independently of NASCAR by several members of the France family, NASCAR took over Grand-Am, but allowed it to operate autonomously.
nascar: However, over the last several years, a number of Cup Series drivers have run both the O'Reilly and Cup Series events each weekend, using the O'Reilly race as a warm-up to the Cup event at the same facility.
nascar: Each division champion receives a point-fund money payout and even more goes to the National champion (driver with most points out of the four division winners).
nascar: The season began in January 1947 at the Daytona Beach track and concluded in Jacksonville that December.
nascar: Since 2001, the Cup Series season has consisted of 36 races over 10 months.
nascar: In 2004, Nextel Communications took over sponsorship of the premier series, and formally renamed it the Nextel Cup Series.
nascar: K&N Filters took over the sponsorship in 2010.
nascar: Many of the drivers would modify their cars for speed and handling, as well as increased cargo capacity.
nascar: Some critics note the significant differences between today's NASCAR vehicles and true "stock" cars.
nascar: The winner also would receive 3 bonus points, and single bonus points were awarded to all drivers who lead a lap, plus the driver who led the most laps.
nascar: The National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, LLC (NASCAR) is an American auto racing sanctioning and operating company that is best known for stock car racing.
nascar: NASCAR, and stock car racing as a whole, traces its roots back to moonshine runners during Prohibition, who grew to compete against each other in a show of pride.
nascar: In 1972, the season was shortened from 48 races (including two on dirt tracks) to 31.
nascar: This change was officially confirmed by France in a press conference less than two weeks later, and has remained in the NASCAR rules ever since.
nascar: He was familiar with the history of the area from the land speed record attempts.
nascar: NASCAR runs races primarily on ovals, including superspeedways, short tracks, and previously dirt tracks, but also road courses and street circuits.
nascar: Baker earned most of his fame for his transcontinental speed runs and would prove a car's worth by driving it from New York to Los Angeles.
nascar: Jimmie Johnson and Button were joined by German WEC veteran and Mike Rockenfeller – a 2010 LMP1 category and overall winner at Le Mans – as the drivers.
nascar: For years, NASCAR had been under criticism for allowing the Confederate flag to be flown during races.
nascar: in 1953 to construct and manage tracks at which NASCAR holds competitions.
nascar: Most races in those days were of modified cars.
