natural_selection: Haldane introduced the concept of the "cost" of natural selection.
natural_selection: The most prominent example of evolutionary psychology, notably advanced in the early work of Noam Chomsky and later by Steven Pinker, is the hypothesis that the human brain has adapted to acquire the grammatical rules of natural language.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-674-00613-3.
natural_selection: He wrote "...
natural_selection: The result of this would be the formation of new species." Darwin wrote:
natural_selection: Others split the life cycle into further components of selection.
natural_selection: Some traits are governed by only a single gene, but most traits are influenced by the interactions of many genes.
natural_selection: As long as there is some variation between them and that variation is heritable, there will be an inevitable selection of individuals with the most advantageous variations.
natural_selection: OCLC 3090189.
natural_selection: When such mutations result in a higher fitness, natural selection favours these phenotypes and the novel trait spreads in the population.
natural_selection: Disruptive selection may cause sympatric speciation through niche partitioning.
natural_selection: The concept was simple but powerful: individuals best adapted to their environments are more likely to survive and reproduce.
natural_selection: Phenotypes are plastic  which means they are less directly determined by a given organism's genetic make-up (genotype) than by the way that particular organism develops and behaves in the theatre of agency which constitutes its habitat or environment.
natural_selection: Neutral events can radically reduce genetic variation through population bottlenecks, which among other things can cause the founder effect in initially small new populations.
natural_selection: Since a selective sweep also results in selection of neighbouring alleles, the presence of a block of strong linkage disequilibrium might indicate a 'recent' selective sweep near the centre of the block.
natural_selection: Finally, balancing selection can occur through frequency-dependent selection, where the fitness of one particular phenotype depends on the distribution of other phenotypes in the population.
natural_selection: The struggle for existence was later described by the Islamic writer Al-Jahiz in the 9th century, particularly in the context of top-down population regulation, but not in reference to individual variation or natural selection.
natural_selection: Though natural selection acts on individuals, the effects of chance mean that fitness can only really be defined "on average" for the individuals within a population.
natural_selection: A variation in one of the many genes that contributes to a trait may have only a small effect on the phenotype; together, these genes can support a continuum of possible phenotypic values.
natural_selection: JSTOR 984852.
natural_selection: For teeth and all other natural things either invariably or normally come about in a given way; but of not one of the results of chance or spontaneity is this true.
natural_selection: On the other hand, "improvement in fitness" can occur in an environment where "survival of the fittest" is also acting.
natural_selection: Although the Moravian monk Gregor Mendel, the father of modern genetics, was a contemporary of Darwin's, his work lay in obscurity, only being rediscovered in 1900.
natural_selection: During the formation of gametes, recombination reshuffles the alleles.
natural_selection: The concept of natural selection originally developed in the absence of a valid theory of heredity; at the time of Darwin's writing, science had yet to develop modern theories of genetics.
natural_selection: The fitness of an early RNA replicator would likely have been a function of adaptive capacities that were intrinsic (i.e., determined by the nucleotide sequence) and the availability of resources.
natural_selection: Baltimore, MD: University Park Press.
natural_selection: Because background selection is a result of deleterious new mutations, which can occur randomly in any haplotype, it does not produce clear blocks of linkage disequilibrium, although with low recombination it can still lead to slightly negative linkage disequilibrium overall.
natural_selection: Selective sweeps occur when an allele becomes more common in a population as a result of positive selection.
natural_selection: In the words of the philosopher Daniel Dennett, "Darwin's dangerous idea" of evolution by natural selection is a "universal acid," which cannot be kept restricted to any vessel or container, as it soon leaks out, working its way into ever-wider surroundings.
natural_selection: The principles of natural selection have inspired a variety of computational techniques, such as "soft" artificial life, that simulate selective processes and can be highly efficient in 'adapting' entities to an environment defined by a specified fitness function.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-19-506933-4.
natural_selection: Hamilton conceived of kin selection in 1964.
natural_selection: Wells imagined "The Man of the Year Million", transformed by natural selection into a being with a huge head and eyes, and shrunken body.
natural_selection: Wilson's work on island biogeography.
natural_selection: Aggression between members of the same sex is sometimes associated with very distinctive features, such as the antlers of stags, which are used in combat with other stags.
natural_selection: A Reason for Everything: Natural Selection and the English Imagination.
natural_selection: Natural selection had the power, according to Stephen Jay Gould, to "dethrone some of the deepest and most traditional comforts of Western thought", such as the belief that humans have a special place in the world.
natural_selection: This inspired some of Darwin's most ardent supporters—and provoked the strongest opposition.
natural_selection: Even if the reproductive advantage is very slight, over many generations any advantageous heritable trait becomes dominant in the population.
natural_selection: Although the gene-centred view of evolution promulgated by the 20th century's modern synthesis in evolutionary biology denied the possibility of community or group selection of the kind proposed by Darwin, 21st-century evolutionists are less dismissive.
natural_selection: The balance was reversed by the effect of the Clean Air Act 1956, and the dark moths became rare again, demonstrating the influence of natural selection on peppered moth evolution.
natural_selection: Bibcode:1978SciAm.239c.212L.
natural_selection: This principle of preservation, I have called, for the sake of brevity, Natural Selection.
natural_selection: Animals like wolves, killer whales, and pelicans hunt in concert, sometimes with a combined strategy.
natural_selection: Changes in these often have large effects on the phenotype of the individual because they regulate the function of many other genes.
natural_selection: Typically, r-selected species exploit empty niches, and produce many offspring, each with a relatively low probability of surviving to adulthood.
natural_selection: The more recent classical arguments were reintroduced in the 18th century by Pierre Louis Maupertuis and others, including Darwin's grandfather, Erasmus Darwin.
natural_selection: Female bodies also prefer traits that confer the lowest cost to their reproductive health, which is known as fecundity selection.
natural_selection: The mathematics of "improvement in fitness was described by Kleinman.
natural_selection: Climbing Mount Improbable (1st American ed.).
natural_selection: (An example is the ABO blood type antigens in humans, where three alleles govern the phenotype.) It is these genetic variations which affect fitness-relevant differences in phenotypic traits and so underpin the evolution of new adaptations and, ultimately, new species.
natural_selection: Ronald Fisher developed the required mathematical language and wrote The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection (1930).
natural_selection: The polymorphism at the human ABO blood group locus has been explained in this way.
natural_selection: London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson.
natural_selection: Foreshadowing a central theme in 21st century evolutionary biology, Darwin argued that natural selection operated differently in social than in non-social species.
natural_selection: Natural selection is a cornerstone of modern biology.
natural_selection: As the prevalence of one allele increases, closely linked alleles can also become more common by "genetic hitchhiking", whether they are neutral or even slightly deleterious.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-262-69162-8.
natural_selection: Some biologists recognise just two types: viability (or survival) selection, which acts to increase an organism's probability of survival, and fecundity (or fertility or reproductive) selection, which acts to increase the rate of reproduction, given survival.
natural_selection: Lewontin, Richard C.
natural_selection: Beyond this, some social species of bird and mammal actively signaled danger to other members of their community, some even posting sentinels to warn the group of approaching enemies.
natural_selection: At the same time, new mutations occur, resulting in a mutation–selection balance.
natural_selection: However, some thinkers enthusiastically embraced natural selection; after reading Darwin, Herbert Spencer introduced the phrase survival of the fittest, which became a popular summary of the theory.
natural_selection: But if variations useful to any organic being do occur, assuredly individuals thus characterised will have the best chance of being preserved in the struggle for life; and from the strong principle of inheritance they will tend to produce offspring similarly characterised.
natural_selection: Maynard Smith, John (1993) [Originally published 1958; Harmondsworth, England: Penguin Books].
natural_selection: If new traits become more favoured due to changes in a specific niche, microevolution occurs.
natural_selection: Ecological selection is natural selection via any means other than sexual selection, such as kin selection, competition, and infanticide.
natural_selection: The problem does not occur in allopatric speciation with geographically separated populations, which can diverge with different sets of mutations.
natural_selection: Jones, Steve (2000).
natural_selection: The social implications of the theory of evolution by natural selection also became the source of continuing controversy.
natural_selection: 32 (3–4): 339–355.
natural_selection: Some forms of balancing selection do not result in fixation, but maintain an allele at intermediate frequencies in a population.
natural_selection: The fitness of a particular genotype corresponds to the average effect on all individuals with that genotype.
natural_selection: He extensively reasoned in his writings that the shapes of animals are not given once and forever by the "upper power" but instead are generated in different forms naturally and then selected for reproduction by their compatibility with the environment.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-375-50103-6.
natural_selection: Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society.
natural_selection: When different organisms in a population possess different versions of a gene affecting a certain phenotypic trait, each of these versions is known as an allele.
natural_selection: In the past, most changes in the genetic material were considered neutral or close to neutral because they occurred in noncoding DNA or resulted in a synonymous substitution.
natural_selection: Some mutations occur in "toolkit" or regulatory genes.
natural_selection: Thus, in the last decades, the concept of natural selection has spread from evolutionary biology to other disciplines, including evolutionary computation, quantum Darwinism, evolutionary economics, evolutionary epistemology, evolutionary psychology, and cosmological natural selection.
natural_selection: Finally, selection can be classified according to the resource being competed for.
natural_selection: If an organism lives half as long as others of its species, but has twice as many offspring surviving to adulthood, its genes become more common in the adult population of the next generation.
natural_selection: Traits that endow greater reproductive success on an organism are said to be selected for, while those that reduce success are selected against.
natural_selection: He posited natural teleology in its place, and believed that form was achieved for a purpose, citing the regularity of heredity in species as proof.
natural_selection: OCLC 27676642.
natural_selection: LCCN 34633422.
natural_selection: Sometimes, new species can arise especially if these new traits are radically different from the traits possessed by their predecessors.
natural_selection: However, some traits are more likely to facilitate survival and reproductive success.
natural_selection: This process can continue until the allele is fixed and the entire population shares the fitter phenotype.
natural_selection: While it is now recognised that genotypes can slowly change by random genetic drift, natural selection remains the primary explanation for adaptive evolution.
natural_selection: Selection can be divided into three classes, on the basis of its effect on allele frequencies: directional, stabilizing, and disruptive selection.
natural_selection: Weiner, Jonathan (1994).
natural_selection: LCCN 93036755.
natural_selection: This may be because both rely on a limited supply of a resource such as food, water, or territory.
natural_selection: The members of social species aided their conspecifics to survive, either passively (as in social plants) or both passively and actively, as in social animals.
natural_selection: These capacities would have been determined initially by the folded configurations (including those configurations with ribozyme activity) of the RNA replicators that, in turn, would have been encoded in their individual nucleotide sequences.
natural_selection: However, in some species, mate choice is primarily by males, as in some fishes of the family Syngnathidae.
natural_selection: Mayr, Ernst (2002) [Originally published 2001; New York: Basic Books].
natural_selection: The three primary adaptive capacities could logically have been: (1) the capacity to replicate with moderate fidelity (giving rise to both heritability and variation of type), (2) the capacity to avoid decay, and (3) the capacity to acquire and process resources.
natural_selection: Background selection is the opposite of a selective sweep.
natural_selection: In many circumstances, the apparently vestigial structure may retain a limited functionality, or may be co-opted for other advantageous traits in a phenomenon known as preadaptation.
natural_selection: Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
natural_selection: Natural selection can act on any heritable phenotypic trait, and selective pressure can be altered by any aspect of the environment, including sexual selection and competition or cooperation with members of the same or other species.
natural_selection: The Structure of Evolutionary Theory.
natural_selection: Allen Orr and Sergey Gavrilets.
natural_selection: Phenotypic traits can be displayed in one sex and desired in the other sex, causing a positive feedback loop called a Fisherian runaway, for example, the extravagant plumage of some male birds such as the peacock.
natural_selection: Directional selection favours extreme values of a trait.
natural_selection: Natural or phenotypic variation occurs among the individuals of any population of organisms.
natural_selection: Species less suited to compete should in theory either adapt or die out, since competition plays a powerful role in natural selection, but according to the "room to roam" theory it may be less important than expansion among larger clades.
natural_selection: Sober, Elliott, ed.
natural_selection: Ever Since Darwin: Reflections in Natural History (1st ed.).
natural_selection: as the teeth, for example, grow by necessity, the front ones sharp, adapted for dividing, and the grinders flat, and serviceable for masticating the food; since they were not made for the sake of this, but it was the result of accident.
natural_selection: Natural selection relies crucially on the idea of heredity, but developed before the basic concepts of genetics were invented.
natural_selection: In broad terms, individuals that are more "fit" have better potential for survival, as in the well-known phrase "survival of the fittest", but the precise meaning of the term is much more subtle.
natural_selection: Sammut-Bonnici, Tanya; Wensley, Robin (September 2002).
natural_selection: Some nonlethal regulatory mutations occur in HOX genes in humans, which can result in a cervical rib or polydactyly, an increase in the number of fingers or toes.
natural_selection: The racial idea as the basis of our state has already accomplished much in this respect." Others have developed ideas that human societies and culture evolve by mechanisms analogous to those that apply to evolution of species.
natural_selection: Stabilizing selection conserves functional genetic features, such as protein-coding genes or regulatory sequences, over time by selective pressure against deleterious variants.
natural_selection: Lotka proposed that natural selection might be understood as a physical principle that could be described in terms of the use of energy by a system, a concept later developed by Howard T.
natural_selection: When Darwin read Malthus in 1838 he was already primed by his work as a naturalist to appreciate the "struggle for existence" in nature.
natural_selection: So what hinders the different parts [of the body] from having this merely accidental relation in nature?
natural_selection: The chance that such a reshuffle occurs between two alleles is inversely related to the distance between them.
natural_selection: Scientific American.
natural_selection: In this way the natural environment of an organism "selects for" traits that confer a reproductive advantage, causing evolutionary change, as Darwin described.
natural_selection: This is correctly described by the differential survival and reproduction of individuals due to differences in phenotype.
natural_selection: One prominent hypothesis is that life first appeared in the form of short self-replicating RNA polymers.
natural_selection: Among major responses is Samuel Butler's 1872 pessimistic Erewhon ("nowhere", written mostly backwards).
natural_selection: Since the discovery of penicillin in 1928, antibiotics have been used to fight bacterial diseases.
natural_selection: After the publication of On the Origin of Species, educated people generally accepted that evolution had occurred in some form.
natural_selection: The likelihood of these traits being 'selected' and passed down is determined by many factors.
natural_selection: In 1859, Charles Darwin set out his theory of evolution by natural selection as an explanation for adaptation and speciation.
natural_selection: LCCN 99053246.
natural_selection: Thus, these traits are more likely to be passed on to the next generation.
natural_selection: It is a key law or mechanism of evolution which changes the heritable traits characteristic of a population or species over generations.
natural_selection: In contrast, K-selected species are strong competitors in crowded niches, and invest more heavily in much fewer offspring, each with a relatively high probability of surviving to adulthood.
natural_selection: Any of these changes might have an effect that is highly advantageous or highly disadvantageous for phenotypic variations, but large effects on phenotypes are rare.
natural_selection: However, this does not imply that natural selection is always directional and results in adaptive evolution; natural selection often results in the maintenance of the status quo by eliminating less fit variants.
natural_selection: The Theory of Evolution (Canto ed.).
natural_selection: A strong selective sweep results in a region of the genome where the  positively selected haplotype (the allele and its neighbours) are in essence the only ones that exist in the population.
natural_selection: Darwin, Charles.
natural_selection: On the other hand, "improvement in fitness" is not dependent on the differential survival and reproduction of individuals due to differences in phenotype, it is dependent on the absolute survival of the particular variant.
natural_selection: He described natural selection as analogous to artificial selection, a process by which animals and plants with traits considered desirable by human breeders are systematically favoured for reproduction.
natural_selection: This meant that often, if social plants "did not live in numbers, they could not live at all."
When it came to animals, Darwin said a truly social animal sought society beyond its own family.
natural_selection: London: Faber and Faber.
natural_selection: More generally, intrasexual selection is often associated with sexual dimorphism, including differences in body size between males and females of a species.
natural_selection: A famous example of a vestigial structure, the eye of the blind mole-rat, is believed to retain function in photoperiod perception.
natural_selection: As a result, the genetic variation at those sites is higher than at sites where variation does influence fitness.
natural_selection: In this theory, selective pressures drive evolution in one of two stereotyped directions: r- or K-selection.
natural_selection: ISSN 0003-049X.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-393-03930-6.
natural_selection: The success of this theory raised awareness of the vast scale of geological time and made plausible the idea that tiny, virtually imperceptible changes in successive generations could produce consequences on the scale of differences between species.
natural_selection: Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.
natural_selection: This process can continue until the allele is eliminated from the population.
natural_selection: Group selection, if it occurs, acts on groups of organisms, on the assumption that groups replicate and mutate in an analogous way to genes and individuals.
natural_selection: How life originated from inorganic matter remains an unresolved problem in biology.
natural_selection: Dialectica.
natural_selection: In his book Genetics and the Origin of Species (1937), Theodosius Dobzhansky established the idea that mutation, once seen as a rival to selection, actually supplied the raw material for natural selection by creating genetic diversity.
natural_selection: This gives the appearance of purpose, but in natural selection there is no intentional choice.
natural_selection: Artificial selection is purposive where natural selection is not, though biologists often use teleological language to describe it.
natural_selection: OCLC 2091640.
natural_selection: The probability of a beneficial mutation occurring on some member of the lineage to give improved fitness is slowed by the competition.
natural_selection: Darwin called plants like grasses and thistles social, because, in a "somewhat strained sense", they help each other by increasing their mutual chances of cross-fertilization (and hence vigour), and by reducing the depredations of their "devourers" (e.g.
natural_selection: Natural selection results from the ways an organism's phenotypes, or observable characteristics, bear on its capacity to reproduce.
natural_selection: Conceptual Issues in Evolutionary Biology (2nd ed.).
natural_selection: For Darwin and his contemporaries, evolution was in essence synonymous with evolution by natural selection.
natural_selection: Such algorithms are particularly useful when applied to problems whose energy landscape is very rough or has many local minima.
natural_selection: Darwinian evolution by natural selection is pervasive in literature, whether taken optimistically in terms of how humanity may evolve towards perfection, or pessimistically in terms of the dire consequences of the interaction of human nature and the struggle for survival.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-19-856972-5.
natural_selection: As quoted in Darwin's 1872 edition of The Origin of Species, Aristotle considered whether different forms (e.g., of teeth) might have appeared accidentally, but only the useful forms survived:
natural_selection: Empedocles' idea that organisms arose entirely by the incidental workings of causes such as heat and cold was criticised by Aristotle in Book II of Physics.
natural_selection: LCCN 2001036562.
natural_selection: More recently, work among anthropologists and psychologists has led to the development of sociobiology and later of evolutionary psychology, a field that attempts to explain features of human psychology in terms of adaptation to the ancestral environment.
natural_selection: Sewall Wright elucidated the nature of selection and adaptation.
natural_selection: According to this cellular Darwinism, random variation at the molecular level generates diversity in cell types whereas cell interactions impose a characteristic order on the developing embryo.
natural_selection: He was in the process of writing his "big book" to present his research when the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace independently conceived of the principle and described it in an essay he sent to Darwin to forward to Charles Lyell.
natural_selection: The fifth edition of On the Origin of Species published in 1869 included Spencer's phrase as an alternative to natural selection, with credit given: "But the expression often used by Mr.
natural_selection: Nevertheless, he accepted in his biology that new types of animals, monstrosities (τερας), can occur in very rare instances (Generation of Animals, Book IV).
natural_selection: LCCN 93020358.
natural_selection: Darwin thought of natural selection by analogy to how farmers select crops or livestock for breeding, which he called "artificial selection"; in his early manuscripts he referred to a "Nature" which would do the selection.
natural_selection: coli long-term evolution experiment is an example of adaptation in a competitive environment, ("improvement in fitness" during "survival of the fittest").
natural_selection: However, it is intrinsic to the concept of a species that hybrids are selected against, opposing the evolution of reproductive isolation, a problem that was recognised by Darwin.
natural_selection: doi:10.1111/1468-2370.00088.
natural_selection: This gave dark-coloured moths a better chance of surviving to produce dark-coloured offspring, and in just fifty years from the first dark moth being caught, nearly all of the moths in industrial Manchester were dark.
natural_selection: Modern genetic studies show that the switch from light to dark coloration is due to a transposable element insertion into the first intron of the gene cortex.
natural_selection: And in like manner as to the other parts in which there appears to exist an adaptation to an end.
natural_selection: OCLC 170034792.
natural_selection: In addition to the passive kinds of mutual aid that advantaged social plants, social animals could gain additional benefits through efficiencies due to divisions of labour like those found in social insects.
natural_selection: Norton & Company.
natural_selection: In consequence we now have an array of extended evolutionary syntheses which have returned the agency of living organisms to the heart of the theory of natural selection.
natural_selection: New York: Knopf.
natural_selection: This theory, Lamarckism, was an influence on the Soviet biologist Trofim Lysenko's ill-fated antagonism to mainstream genetic theory as late as the mid-20th century.
natural_selection: Directional selection occurs when an allele has a greater fitness than others, so that it increases in frequency, gaining an increasing share in the population.
natural_selection: New evidence has prompted 21st century  evolutionary biologists to challenge the 20th century's gene-centred view of evolution, producing several  extended evolutionary syntheses which bring organisms back to the heart of the theory of natural selection.
natural_selection: Selection can be classified in several different ways, such as by its effect on a trait, on genetic diversity, by the life cycle stage where it acts, by the unit of selection, or by the resource being competed for.
natural_selection: This can occur in diploid species (with pairs of chromosomes) when heterozygous individuals (with just one copy of the allele) have a higher fitness than homozygous individuals (with two copies).
natural_selection: LCCN 2005360890.
natural_selection: The variant which is a candidate for a beneficial mutation in this limited carrying capacity environment must first out-compete the "less fit" variants in order to accumulate the requisite number of replications for there to be a reasonable probability of that beneficial mutation occurring.
natural_selection: Disruptive (or diversifying) selection is selection favouring extreme trait values over intermediate trait values.
natural_selection: Until the early 19th century, the prevailing view in Western societies was that differences between individuals of a species were uninteresting departures from their Platonic ideals (or typus) of created kinds.
natural_selection: Historical
Kohn, Marek (2004).
natural_selection: However, many mutations in non-coding DNA have deleterious effects.
natural_selection: Following Darwin, natural selection is sometimes defined as ecological selection, in which case sexual selection is considered a separate mechanism.
natural_selection: The concept, published by Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace in a joint presentation of papers in 1858, was elaborated in Darwin's influential 1859 book On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life.
natural_selection: Natural selection is the differential survival and reproduction of individuals due to differences in the relative fitness endowed on them by their own particular complement of observable characteristics.
natural_selection: Competition is modelled by r/K selection theory, which is based on Robert MacArthur and E.
natural_selection: Modern evolutionary theory defines fitness not by how long an organism lives, but by how successful it is at reproducing.
natural_selection: The synthesis grew from advances in different fields.
natural_selection: Other aspects of human behaviour and social structures, from specific cultural norms such as incest avoidance to broader patterns such as gender roles, have been hypothesised to have similar origins as adaptations to the early environment in which modern humans evolved.
natural_selection: With the early 20th-century integration of evolution with Mendel's laws of inheritance, the so-called modern synthesis, scientists generally came to accept natural selection.
natural_selection: The 20th century's dominant theories of evolutionary biology treated natural selection differently, as if it were itself a causal mechanism, the agency of which was attributed either to the machinations of selfish genes or to 'the environment'.
natural_selection: An empirical example of "improvement in fitness" is given by the Kishony Mega-plate experiment.
natural_selection: "Natural Selection and the Emergence of Mind".
natural_selection: Zirkle, Conway (25 April 1941).
natural_selection: Others are passed down because these traits are actively preferred by mating partners, which is known as sexual selection.
natural_selection: Most, but not all, mutations in regulatory genes result in non-viable embryos.
natural_selection: On this view, life may have come into existence when RNA chains first experienced the basic conditions, as conceived by Charles Darwin, for natural selection to operate.
natural_selection: OCLC 28150417.
natural_selection: Unlike marmosets and tamarins, gorillas, lions, and tigers were not social in Darwin's sense, because, while they "no doubt" felt sympathy for the suffering of their young, they did not sympathize with "any other animal" beyond their own family.
natural_selection: In kin selection and intragenomic conflict, gene-level selection provides a more apt explanation of the underlying process.
natural_selection: OCLC 248107061.
natural_selection: These traits can also become more common within a population if the environment that favours these traits remains fixed.
natural_selection: This unlimited applicability has been called universal Darwinism.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-571-22392-3.
natural_selection: With reinforcement, however, natural selection can favour an increase in pre-zygotic isolation, influencing the process of speciation directly.
natural_selection: Without phenotypic variation, there would be no evolution by natural selection.
natural_selection: ISSN 0012-2017.
natural_selection: Established traits are not immutable; traits that have high fitness in one environmental context may be much less fit if environmental conditions change.
natural_selection: Some are likely to be passed down because they adapt well to their environments.
natural_selection: Genetic variation is the result of mutations, genetic recombinations and alterations in the karyotype (the number, shape, size and internal arrangement of the chromosomes).
natural_selection: It struck him that as population outgrew resources, "favourable variations would tend to be preserved, and unfavourable ones to be destroyed.
natural_selection: LCCN 2007039692.
natural_selection: Williams, George C.
natural_selection: There is an ongoing debate over the degree to which group selection occurs in nature.
natural_selection: Natural selection is seen in action in the development of antibiotic resistance in microorganisms.
natural_selection: Gene selection acts directly at the level of the gene.
natural_selection: Gould, Stephen Jay (1977).
natural_selection: Motoo Kimura's neutral theory of molecular evolution by genetic drift proposes that this variation accounts for a large fraction of observed genetic diversity.
natural_selection: If a specific site experiences strong and persistent purifying selection, linked variation tends to be weeded out along with it, producing a region in the genome of low overall variability.
natural_selection: Darwin acknowledged Blyth's ideas in the first chapter on variation of On the Origin of Species.
natural_selection: 4 (3): 291–315.
natural_selection: "Adaptation".
natural_selection: PMID 705323.
natural_selection: At the turn of the 16th century Leonardo da Vinci collected a set of fossils of ammonites as well as other biological material.
natural_selection: Maintenance of allelic variation can also occur through disruptive or diversifying selection, which favours genotypes that depart from the average in either direction (that is, the opposite of over-dominance), and can result in a bimodal distribution of trait values.
natural_selection: The probability of a beneficial mutation occurring on some member of a population depends on the total number of replications of that variant.
natural_selection: This fungus has killed large numbers of ash trees in Europe, and damaged many others, though some trees remain healthy.
natural_selection: Thus rabbits stamp their hind-feet, and female seals act as look-outs.
natural_selection: The Beak of the Finch: A Story of Evolution in Our Time (1st ed.).
natural_selection: Speciation requires a degree of reproductive isolation—that is, a reduction in gene flow.
natural_selection: In a letter to Charles Lyell in September 1860, Darwin regretted the use of the term "Natural Selection", preferring the term "Natural Preservation".
natural_selection: "Survival of the fittest" does not give an "improvement in fitness", it only represents the removal of the less fit variants from a population.
natural_selection: Fixation or substitution is not required for this "improvement in fitness".
natural_selection: Poulton realized in 1903 that reproductive isolation could evolve through divergence, if each lineage acquired a different, incompatible allele of the same gene.
natural_selection: New York: W.W.
natural_selection: Richard Lenski's classic E.
natural_selection: "Darwinism, probability and complexity: Market-based organizational transformation and change explained through the theories of evolution" (PDF).
natural_selection: We do not ascribe to chance or mere coincidence the frequency of rain in winter, but frequent rain in summer we do; nor heat in the dog-days, but only if we have it in winter.
natural_selection: In particular, if the trait is quantitative and univariate then both higher and lower trait levels are favoured.
natural_selection: LCCN 93008199.
natural_selection: In biology, competition is an interaction between organisms in which the fitness of one is lowered by the presence of another.
natural_selection: Archived from the original on 25 February 2001.
natural_selection: A portion of all genetic variation is functionally neutral, producing no phenotypic effect or significant difference in fitness.
natural_selection: Individual selection acts on the individual, in the sense that adaptations are "for" the benefit of the individual, and result from selection among individuals.
natural_selection: Natural selection is here understood to act on embryonic development to change the morphology of the adult body.
natural_selection: New York: Random House.
natural_selection: Between 1835 and 1837, the zoologist Edward Blyth worked on the area of variation, artificial selection, and how a similar process occurs in nature.
natural_selection: Some variations may improve an individual's chances of surviving and reproducing such that its lifetime reproductive rate is increased, which means that it leaves more offspring.
natural_selection: Goldberg, identify optimal solutions by simulated reproduction and mutation of a population of solutions defined by an initial probability distribution.
natural_selection: For example, a class of heuristic optimisation algorithms known as genetic algorithms, pioneered by John Henry Holland in the 1970s and expanded upon by David E.
natural_selection: A mathematical example of "survival of the fittest" is given by Haldane in his paper "The Cost of Natural Selection".
natural_selection: International Journal of Management Reviews.
natural_selection: An example of natural selection in the wild involving a much larger number of genes is given by ash trees in Britain, under selection by an invasive fungus causing ash dieback.
natural_selection: A prerequisite for natural selection to result in adaptive evolution, novel traits and speciation is the presence of heritable genetic variation that affects phenotypic fitness differences.
natural_selection: The concept of fitness is central to natural selection.
natural_selection: For example, in 1940, Konrad Lorenz, in writings that he subsequently disowned, used the theory as a justification for policies of the Nazi state.
natural_selection: Genetic linkage occurs when the loci of two alleles are close on a chromosome.
natural_selection: An alternate theory proposed by the same Ronald Fisher in 1930 is the sexy son hypothesis, that mothers want promiscuous sons to give them large numbers of grandchildren and so choose promiscuous fathers for their children.
natural_selection: ISSN 1460-8545.
natural_selection: What Evolution Is.
natural_selection: Ernst Mayr recognised the key importance of reproductive isolation for speciation in his Systematics and the Origin of Species (1942).
natural_selection: Which meant that living organisms themselves dropped out of scientists' theoretical picture.
natural_selection: OCLC 34633422.
natural_selection: If the variations are heritable, then differential reproductive success leads to the evolution of particular populations of a species, and populations that evolve to be sufficiently different eventually become different species.
natural_selection: A recent study, using image analysis and avian vision models, shows that pale individuals more closely match lichen backgrounds than dark morphs and for the first time quantifies the camouflage of moths to predation risk.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-297-60741-0.
natural_selection: This synthesis cemented natural selection as the foundation of evolutionary theory, where it remains today.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-521-45128-4.
natural_selection: Cambridge, New York: Cambridge University Press.
natural_selection: A distinction must be made between the concept of "survival of the fittest" and "improvement in fitness".
natural_selection: This is called heterozygote advantage or over-dominance, of which the best-known example is the resistance to malaria in humans heterozygous for sickle-cell anaemia.
natural_selection: The genetic basis of health under ash dieback pressure has been shown to be quantitative and highly polygenic.
natural_selection: It is sometimes helpful to distinguish between the processes or mechanisms which result in selection and selection's effects.
natural_selection: Far more common is stabilizing selection, which lowers the frequency of alleles that have a deleterious effect on the phenotype—that is, produce organisms of lower fitness.
natural_selection: Gould, Stephen Jay (2002).
natural_selection: Selection: The Mechanism of Evolution (2nd ed.).
natural_selection: New York: Oxford University Press.
natural_selection: – Chapter 4, Natural Selection
natural_selection: LCCN 76008175.
natural_selection: Darwin published a detailed account of his evidence and conclusions in On the Origin of Species in 1859.
natural_selection: In this experiment, "improvement in fitness" depends on the number of replications of the particular variant for a new variant to appear that is capable of growing in the next higher drug concentration region.
natural_selection: Social creatures may also actively groom each other, removing parasites, or licking each other’s wounds.
natural_selection: If then, it is agreed that things are either the result of coincidence or for an end, and these cannot be the result of coincidence or spontaneity, it follows that they must be for an end; and that such things are all due to nature even the champions of the theory which is before us would agree.
natural_selection: One mechanism for this is heterozygote advantage, where individuals with two different alleles have a selective advantage over individuals with just one allele.
natural_selection: These conditions are: heritability, variation of type, and competition for limited resources.
natural_selection: 84 (1): 71–123.
natural_selection: At the time, mechanisms of evolution such as evolution by genetic drift were not yet explicitly formulated, but, even in 1859, Darwin clearly stated that selection was only part of the story: "I am convinced that Natural Selection has been the main but not exclusive means of modification".
natural_selection: Yet it is impossible that this should be the true view.
natural_selection: Oxford Series in Ecology and Evolution.
natural_selection: Therefore action for an end is present in things which come to be and are by nature.
natural_selection: 239 (3): 212–230.
natural_selection: OCLC 57200626.
natural_selection: But Aristotle rejected this possibility in the next paragraph, making clear that he is talking about  the development of animals as embryos with the phrase "either invariably or normally come about", not the origin of species:
natural_selection: In the absence of natural selection to preserve such a trait, it becomes more variable and deteriorate over time, possibly resulting in a vestigial manifestation of the trait, also called evolutionary baggage.
natural_selection: OCLC 228136567.
natural_selection: "On the Origin of Species".
natural_selection: The union of traditional Darwinian evolution with subsequent discoveries in classical genetics formed the modern synthesis of the mid-20th century.
natural_selection: In contrast, balancing selection acts to maintain genetic variation in a population, even in the absence of de novo mutation, by negative frequency-dependent selection.
natural_selection: However, after a period with no new mutations, the genetic variation at these sites is eliminated due to genetic drift.
natural_selection: Haldane called this process "substitution" or more commonly in biology, this is called "fixation".
natural_selection: Science Masters.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-393-06425-4.
natural_selection: Convergently, the growth of molecular genetics has led to evolutionary developmental biology, which compares the developmental processes of different organisms to infer how developmental processes evolved.
natural_selection: In recent years, a modern version of this theory has been proposed by Jean-Jacques Kupiec.
natural_selection: birds eating their seeds).
natural_selection: Competition may be within or between species, and may be direct or indirect.
natural_selection: OCLC 47869352.
natural_selection: Selective sweeps can be detected by measuring linkage disequilibrium, or whether a given haplotype is overrepresented in the population.
natural_selection: Johnson, Clifford (1976).
natural_selection: must be accomplished by some human institution, if mankind, in default of selective factors, is not to be ruined by domestication-induced degeneracy.
natural_selection: where r is the growth rate of the population (N), and K is the carrying capacity of its local environmental setting.
natural_selection: Popper, Karl (December 1978).
natural_selection: However, the theory of uniformitarianism in geology promoted the idea that simple, weak forces could act continuously over long periods of time to produce radical changes in the Earth's landscape.
natural_selection: The uncommon disruptive selection also acts during transition periods when the current mode is sub-optimal, but alters the trait in more than one direction.
natural_selection: LCCN 2001043556.
natural_selection: Introduction to Natural Selection.
natural_selection: Purifying or negative selection acts to remove genetic variation from the population (and is opposed by de novo mutation, which introduces new variation.
natural_selection: selection for toughness, heroism, and social utility ...
natural_selection: Darwin's Ghost: The Origin of Species Updated (1st ed.).
natural_selection: The exact outcome of the two processes depends both on the rate at which new mutations occur and on the strength of the natural selection, which is a function of how unfavourable the mutation proves to be.
natural_selection: doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0978-212.
natural_selection: Under the pressure of evidence, 21st century evolutionary biology has seen growing criticism of the 20th century's gene-centred view of evolution.
natural_selection: Odum as the maximum power principle in thermodynamics, whereby evolutionary systems with selective advantage maximise the rate of useful energy transformation.
natural_selection: LCCN 77022504.
natural_selection: Variation of traits, both genotypic and phenotypic, exists within all populations of organisms.
natural_selection: For general audiences
Dawkins, Richard (1996).
natural_selection: doi:10.1111/j.1746-8361.1978.tb01321.x.
natural_selection: Sexual selection typically proceeds via fecundity selection, sometimes at the expense of viability.
natural_selection: When genetic variation does not result in differences in fitness, selection cannot directly affect the frequency of such variation.
natural_selection: He defined natural selection as the "principle by which each slight variation [of a trait], if useful, is preserved".
natural_selection: Selection against the heterozygote would then directly create reproductive isolation, leading to the Bateson–Dobzhansky–Muller model, further elaborated by H.
natural_selection: Natural Selection: Domains, Levels, and Challenges.
natural_selection: Stabilizing selection acts to hold a trait at a stable optimum, and in the simplest case all deviations from this optimum are selectively disadvantageous.
natural_selection: "Natural Selection before the 'Origin of Species'".
natural_selection: This is an evolutionary arms race, in which bacteria develop strains less susceptible to antibiotics, while medical researchers attempt to develop new antibiotics that can kill them.
natural_selection: In later editions Darwin acknowledged that earlier writers—like William Charles Wells in 1813, and Patrick Matthew in 1831—had proposed similar basic ideas.
natural_selection: The principles of game theory have been applied to understand the fitness distributions in these situations, particularly in the study of kin selection and the evolution of reciprocal altruism.
natural_selection: Charles Darwin popularised the term "natural selection", contrasting it with artificial selection, which is intentional, whereas natural selection is not.
natural_selection: If new traits become more favoured due to changes in the broader environment, macroevolution occurs.
natural_selection: ISSN 0036-8733.
natural_selection: Although both mutation rates and average fitness effects of mutations are dependent on the organism, a majority of mutations in humans are slightly deleterious.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-679-40003-5.
natural_selection: This is due to selection for beneficial gene combinations from among the variation present in the parents.
natural_selection: Using genomic prediction models trained on planted trials, geneticists have shown that natural selection is acting on a woodland in Surrey England, causing the new generation of ash trees to be, on average, more genetically resistant to ash dieback than their parents generation.
natural_selection: ISBN 978-0-8391-0936-5.
natural_selection: Response strategies typically include the use of different, stronger antibiotics; however, new strains of MRSA have recently emerged that are resistant even to these drugs.
natural_selection: OCLC 29029572.
natural_selection: The peppered moth exists in both light and dark colours in Great Britain, but during the Industrial Revolution, many of the trees on which the moths rested became blackened by soot, giving the dark-coloured moths an advantage in hiding from predators.
natural_selection: These terms, r and K, can be illustrated in a logistic model of population dynamics:
natural_selection: Disruptive selection can be a precursor to speciation.
natural_selection: Natural selection reduces genetic variation by eliminating maladapted individuals, and consequently the mutations that caused the maladaptation.
natural_selection: However, they had not developed their ideas, or presented evidence to persuade others that the concept was useful.
natural_selection: LCCN 91038938.
natural_selection: Sexual selection results from competition for mates.
natural_selection: (September 1978).
natural_selection: A similar situation occurs with pesticide resistance in plants and insects.
natural_selection: Once he had this hypothesis, Darwin was meticulous about gathering and refining evidence of consilience to meet standards of methodology before making his scientific theory public.
natural_selection: OCLC 42690131.
natural_selection: Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press.
natural_selection: When some component of a phenotypic trait is heritable, selection alters the frequencies of the different alleles, or variants of the gene that affect the variants of the observed trait.
