nebula: In 1923, following the Great Debate, it became clear that many "nebulae" were in fact galaxies far from the Milky Way.
nebula: A third category was added in 1912 when Vesto Slipher showed that the spectrum of the nebula that surrounded the star Merope matched the spectra of the Pleiades open cluster.
nebula: During much of their work, William Herschel believed that these nebulae were merely unresolved clusters of stars.
nebula: The Sun will produce a planetary nebula and its core will remain behind in the form of a white dwarf.
nebula: He also cataloged the Omicron Velorum star cluster as a "nebulous star" and other nebulous objects, such as Brocchi's Cluster.
nebula: The region of ionized hydrogen surrounding the massive stars is known as an H II region while the shells of neutral hydrogen surrounding the H II region are known as photodissociation region.
nebula: The compact object that was created after the explosion lies in the center of the Crab Nebula and its core is now a neutron star.
nebula: Similar nebulae not illuminated by stars do not exhibit visible radiation, but may be detected as opaque clouds blocking light from luminous objects behind them; they are called dark nebulae.
nebula: Examples of star-forming regions are the Orion Nebula, the Rosette Nebula and the Omega Nebula.
nebula: Reflection nebulae themselves do not emit significant amounts of visible light, but are near stars and reflect light from them.
nebula: Most nebulae are of vast size; some are hundreds of light-years in diameter.
nebula: Their Catalogue of One Thousand New Nebulae and Clusters of Stars was published in 1786.
nebula: Around 150 AD, Ptolemy recorded, in books VII–VIII of his Almagest, five stars that appeared nebulous.
nebula: Star-forming regions are a class of emission nebula associated with giant molecular clouds.
nebula: Planetary nebulae were given their own name by the first astronomical observers who were initially unable to distinguish them from planets, which were of more interest to them.
nebula: They are H II regions, because mostly hydrogen is ionized, but planetary are denser and more compact than nebulae found in star formation regions.
nebula: Still other nebulae form as planetary nebulae.
nebula: The first true nebula, as distinct from a star cluster, was mentioned by the Muslim Persian astronomer Abd al-Rahman al-Sufi in his Book of Fixed Stars (964).
nebula: The supernovas that created the Crab Nebula, SN 1054, was observed by Arabic and Chinese astronomers in 1054.
nebula: Originally, the term "nebula" was used to describe any diffused astronomical object, including galaxies beyond the Milky Way.
nebula: The remaining material is then thought to form planets and other planetary system objects.
nebula: This nebula was also observed by Johann Baptist Cysat in 1618.
nebula: Earth's air has a density of approximately 1019 molecules per cubic centimeter; by contrast, the densest nebulae can have densities of 104 molecules per cubic centimeter.
nebula: When nuclear fusion in the core of the star stops, the star collapses.
nebula: He found that roughly a third of them had the emission spectrum of a gas.
nebula: There are a variety of formation mechanisms for the different types of nebulae.
nebula: This is the final stage of a low-mass star's life, like Earth's Sun.
nebula: Stars with a mass up to 8–10 solar masses evolve into red giants and slowly lose their outer layers during pulsations in their atmospheres.
nebula: Although much of the optical and X-ray emission from supernova remnants originates from ionized gas, a great amount of the radio emission is a form of non-thermal emission called synchrotron emission.
nebula: This emission originates from high-velocity electrons oscillating within magnetic fields.
nebula: These form as a molecular cloud collapses under its own weight, producing stars.
nebula: Although these nebulae have different visibility at optical wavelengths, they are all bright sources of infrared emission, chiefly from dust within the nebulae.
nebula: Most nebulae can be described as diffuse nebulae, which means that they are extended and contain no well-defined boundaries.
nebula: Although denser than the space surrounding them, most nebulae are far less dense than any vacuum created on Earth (105 to 107 molecules per cubic centimeter) – a nebular cloud the size of the Earth would have a total mass of only a few kilograms.
nebula: Before their nature was understood, galaxies ("spiral nebulae") and star clusters too distant to be resolved as stars were also classified as nebulae, but no longer are.
nebula: Some nebulae are variably illuminated by T Tauri variable stars.
nebula: When a star has lost enough material, its temperature increases and the ultraviolet radiation it emits can ionize the surrounding nebula that it has thrown off.
nebula: H II regions, large diffuse nebulae containing ionized hydrogen
Planetary nebulae
Supernova remnants (e.g., Crab Nebula)
Dark nebulae
Not all cloud-like structures are nebulae; Herbig–Haro objects are an example.
nebula: He also noted a region of nebulosity between the constellations Ursa Major and Leo that was not associated with any star.
nebula: A nebula (Latin for 'cloud, fog'; pl.
nebula: A nebula that is visible to the human eye from Earth would appear larger, but no brighter, from close by.
nebula: The expanding shell of gas forms a supernova remnant, a special diffuse nebula.
nebula: The gas falling inward either rebounds or gets so strongly heated that it expands outwards from the core, thus causing the star to explode.
nebula: The Andromeda Galaxy, for instance, was once referred to as the Andromeda Nebula (and spiral galaxies in general as "spiral nebulae") before the true nature of galaxies was confirmed in the early 20th century by Vesto Slipher, Edwin Hubble, and others.
nebula: In these regions, the formations of gas, dust, and other materials "clump" together to form denser regions, which attract further matter and eventually become dense enough to form stars.
nebula: Thus, the nebula radiates by reflected star light.
nebula: Massive stars may form in the center, and their ultraviolet radiation ionizes the surrounding gas, making it visible at optical wavelengths.
nebula: Nebulae are often star-forming regions, such as the Pillars of Creation in the Eagle Nebula.
nebula: Some nebulae form from gas that is already in the interstellar medium while others are produced by stars.
nebula: Charles Messier then compiled a catalog of 103 "nebulae" (now called Messier objects, which included what are now known to be galaxies) by 1781; his interest was detecting comets, and these were objects that might be mistaken for them.
nebula: The rest showed a continuous spectrum and were thus thought to consist of a mass of stars.
nebula: This number steadily increased during the century, with Jean-Philippe de Cheseaux compiling a list of 20 (including eight not previously known) in 1746.
nebula: Edwin Hubble discovered that most nebulae are associated with stars and illuminated by starlight.
nebula: In 1790, however, he discovered a star surrounded by nebulosity and concluded that this was a true nebulosity rather than a more distant cluster.
nebula: Evolved asymptotic giant branch stars expel their outer layers outwards due to strong stellar winds, thus forming gaseous shells while leaving behind the star's core in the form of a white dwarf.
nebula: Slipher and Edwin Hubble continued to collect the spectra from many different nebulae, finding 29 that showed emission spectra and 33 that had the continuous spectra of star light.
nebula: The supernova event was recorded in the year 1054 and is labeled SN 1054.
nebula: nebulae or nebulas) is a distinct luminescent part of interstellar medium, which can consist of ionized, neutral, or molecular hydrogen and also cosmic dust.
nebula: From 1751 to 1753, Nicolas-Louis de Lacaille cataloged 42 nebulae from the Cape of Good Hope, most of which were previously unknown.
nebula: Both Hubble and Henry Norris Russell concluded that the nebulae surrounding the hotter stars are transformed in some manner.
nebula: One of the best examples of this is the Crab Nebula, in Taurus.
nebula: In 1610, Nicolas-Claude Fabri de Peiresc discovered the Orion Nebula using a telescope.
nebula: He noted "a little cloud" where the Andromeda Galaxy is located.
nebula: Examples of the latter case are planetary nebulae formed from material shed by a star in late stages of its stellar evolution.
nebula: Planetary nebulae are the remnants of the final stages of stellar evolution for mid-mass stars (varying in size between 0.5-~8 solar masses).
nebula: The Sun is expected to spawn a planetary nebula about 12 billion years after its formation.
nebula: In 1922, Hubble announced that nearly all nebulae are associated with stars and that their illumination comes from star light.
nebula: Many nebulae are visible due to fluorescence caused by embedded hot stars, while others are so diffused that they can be detected only with long exposures and special filters.
nebula: The materials thrown off from the supernova explosion are then ionized by the energy and the compact object that its core produces.
nebula: Beginning in 1864, William Huggins examined the spectra of about 70 nebulae.
nebula: A second catalog of a thousand was published in 1789, and the third and final catalog of 510 appeared in 1802.
nebula: The Orion Nebula, the brightest nebula in the sky and occupying an area twice the angular diameter of the full Moon, can be viewed with the naked eye but was missed by early astronomers.
nebula: He also helped categorize nebulae based on the type of light spectra they produced.
nebula: The number of nebulae was then greatly increased by the efforts of William Herschel and his sister, Caroline Herschel.
nebula: Feedback from star-formation, in the form of supernova explosions of massive stars, stellar winds or ultraviolet radiation from massive stars, or outflows from low-mass stars may disrupt the cloud, destroying the nebula after several million years.
nebula: Diffuse nebulae can be divided into emission nebulae, reflection nebulae and dark nebulae.
nebula: However, the first detailed study of the Orion Nebula was not performed until 1659 by Christiaan Huygens, who also believed he was the first person to discover this nebulosity.
nebula: He also discovered that the emission spectrum nebulae are nearly always associated with stars having spectral classifications of B or hotter (including all O-type main sequence stars), while nebulae with continuous spectra appear with cooler stars.
nebula: Examples of the former case are giant molecular clouds, the coldest, densest phase of interstellar gas, which can form by the cooling and condensation of more diffuse gas.
nebula: In 1715, Edmond Halley published a list of six nebulae.
nebula: Radiation from the hot white dwarf excites the expelled gases, producing emission nebulae with spectra similar to those of emission nebulae found in star formation regions.
nebula: Other nebulae form as the result of supernova explosions; the death throes of massive, short-lived stars.
nebula: A supernova occurs when a high-mass star reaches the end of its life.
