new_zealand: New Zealand has been described as a middle power in the Asia-Pacific region, and an emerging power.
new_zealand: Instruments (taonga pūoro), such as flutes and percussion, began being used as spiritual tools, entertainment, and signalling devices.
new_zealand: Much of the remaining forest fell after European settlement, being logged or cleared to make room for pastoral farming, leaving forest occupying only 23% of the land in 1997.
new_zealand: After World War II, Māori were discouraged or prohibited to speak their own language (te reo Māori) in schools and workplaces, and it existed as a community language only in a few remote areas.
new_zealand: Rugby union is considered the national sport and attracts the most spectators.
new_zealand: The life expectancy has improved from 78.6 years in 2000 to 82.2 years in 2021.
new_zealand: Māori tattoos (moko) consisting of coloured soot mixed with gum were cut into the flesh with a bone chisel.
new_zealand: Other indigenous animals are represented by reptiles (tuatara, skinks and geckos), frogs, such as the protected endangered Hamilton's Frog, spiders, insects (wētā), and snails.
new_zealand: New Zealand music has been influenced by blues, jazz, country, rock and roll and hip hop, with many of these genres given a unique New Zealand interpretation.
new_zealand: The lowest unemployment rate recorded using the current methodology was in December 2021 during the COVID-19 pandemic, at 3.2%.
new_zealand: In 1891, the Liberal Party came to power as the first organised political party.
new_zealand: In 1834, a document written in Māori, "He Wakaputanga o te Rangatiratanga o Nu Tireni", was translated into English and became the Declaration of the Independence of New Zealand.
new_zealand: The New Zealand Geographic Board discovered in 2009 that the names of the North Island and South Island had never been formalised, and names and alternative names were formalised in 2013.
new_zealand: In recent decades, however, a "brain gain" has brought in educated professionals from Europe and less developed countries.
new_zealand: They traded European food, metal tools, weapons, and other goods for timber, Māori food, artefacts, and water.
new_zealand: Chorus, which was split from Telecom (now Spark) in 2011, still owns the majority of the telecommunications infrastructure, but competition from other providers has increased.
new_zealand: During this period, literature changed from a journalistic activity to a more academic pursuit.
new_zealand: Some Māori later migrated to the Chatham Islands, where they developed their distinct Moriori culture; a later 1835 invasion by Māori iwi resulted in the massacre and virtual extinction of the Moriori.
new_zealand: The country owes its varied topography, and perhaps even its emergence above the waves, to the dynamic boundary it straddles between the Pacific and Indo-Australian Plates.
new_zealand: New Zealand's wine industry has followed a similar trend to dairy, the number of vineyards doubling over the same period, overtaking wool exports for the first time in 2007.
new_zealand: Despite the United States's suspension of ANZUS obligations, the treaty remained in effect between New Zealand and Australia, whose foreign policy has followed a similar historical trend.
new_zealand: A tradition Maori hangi, where food is cooked underground beside heated rocks, is popular, usually prepared for special occasions.
new_zealand: Cook's voyages in the 1700s and Darwin's in 1835 had important scientific botanical and zoological objectives.
new_zealand: Europeans brought English fashion etiquette to New Zealand, and until the 1950s most people dressed up for social occasions.
new_zealand: State-owned Transpower operates the high-voltage transmission grids in the North and South Islands, as well as the Inter-Island HVDC link connecting the two together.
new_zealand: The southern and southwestern parts of the South Island have a cooler and cloudier climate, with around 1,400–1,600 hours.
new_zealand: In 2025, New Zealand's net migration fell to its lowest level in more than a decade.
new_zealand: New Zealand's national symbols are influenced by natural, historical, and Māori sources.
new_zealand: The South Island is the largest landmass of New Zealand.
new_zealand: Christians are the single largest religious group, forming 32.3% of the population, compared to 36.5% in 2018.
new_zealand: Since the 1996 election, a form of proportional representation called mixed-member proportional (MMP) has been used.
new_zealand: The plateau also hosts the country's largest lake, Lake Taupō, nestled in the caldera of one of the world's most active supervolcanoes.
new_zealand: The government has negotiated settlements of these grievances with many iwi, although Māori claims to the foreshore and seabed proved controversial in the 2000s.
new_zealand: Some artists release Māori language songs, and the Māori tradition-based art of kapa haka (song and dance) has made a resurgence.
new_zealand: The New Zealand recording industry began to develop from 1940 onwards, and many New Zealand musicians have obtained success in Britain and the United States.
new_zealand: Massive deforestation occurred after humans arrived, with around half the forest cover lost to fire after Polynesian settlement.
new_zealand: Geothermal power is also a significant generator of electricity, with several large stations located across the Taupō Volcanic Zone in the North Island.
new_zealand: The first European visitor to New Zealand, Dutch explorer Abel Tasman, named the islands Staten Land, believing they were part of the Staten Landt that Jacob Le Maire had sighted off the southern end of South America.
new_zealand: Since European arrival paintings and photographs have been dominated by landscapes, originally not as works of art but as factual portrayals of New Zealand.
new_zealand: The total gross expenditure on research and development (R&D) as a proportion of GDP rose to 1.37% in 2018, up from 1.23% in 2015.
new_zealand: The British government's residual legislative powers were later removed by the Constitution Act 1986, and final rights of appeal to British courts were abolished in 2003.
new_zealand: Immigrants from India, China and the Philippines are the largest contributors to New Zealand's population growth.
new_zealand: Victorious rugby tours to Australia and the United Kingdom in the late 1880s and the early 1900s played an early role in instilling a national identity.
new_zealand: A Māori protest movement developed, which criticised Eurocentrism and worked for greater recognition of Māori culture and of the Treaty of Waitangi.
new_zealand: Oceania is a wider region encompassing the Australian continent, New Zealand, and various island countries in the Pacific Ocean that are not included in the seven-continent model.
new_zealand: The New Zealand Government established it to replace the country's 20 district health boards (DHBs) on 1 July 2022.
new_zealand: Because of its far-flung outlying islands and long coastline, the country has extensive marine resources.
new_zealand: Directory from UCB Libraries GovPubs.
new_zealand: Wikimedia Atlas of New Zealand
 Geographic data related to New Zealand at OpenStreetMap
new_zealand: Rocket Lab was the first commercial rocket launcher in the country.
new_zealand: New Zealand is ranked fifth in the International Cricket Council Men's Test Team Rankings 2025 with a rating of 100.
new_zealand: The New Zealand Human Rights Commission has asserted that there is strong, consistent evidence that structural discrimination is a real and ongoing socioeconomic issue.
new_zealand: The introduction of the potato and the musket transformed Māori agriculture and warfare.
new_zealand: The Liberal Government, led by Richard Seddon for most of its period in office, passed many important social and economic measures.
new_zealand: Statistics have shown around 20% of New Zealanders identify with more than one ethnic group.
new_zealand: New Zealand is a predominantly urban country, with 84.5% of the population living in urban areas and 51.4% in the seven cities with populations exceeding 100,000.
new_zealand: Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch all receive a yearly average of more than 2,000 hours of sunshine.
new_zealand: Most major cities and towns are linked by bus services, although the private car is the predominant mode of transport.
new_zealand: New Zealand country profile from BBC News
Te Ara: The Encyclopedia of New Zealand
New Zealand.
new_zealand: It also forms the southwestern extremity of the geographic and ethnographic region called Polynesia.
new_zealand: The silver fern emblem appears on army insignia and sporting team uniforms.
new_zealand: Most Māori carvings feature human figures, generally with three fingers and either a natural-looking, detailed head or a stylised version.
new_zealand: Three species of bats (one since extinct) were the only sign of native land mammals in New Zealand until the 2006 discovery of bones from a unique, mouse-sized land mammal at least 16 million years old.
new_zealand: The New Zealand Music Awards are held annually by Recorded Music NZ; the awards were first held in 1965 by Reckitt & Colman as the Loxene Golden Disc awards.
new_zealand: Snowfall is common in the eastern and southern parts of the South Island and mountain areas across the country.
new_zealand: In 2021, in the population aged 25–64, 13% had no formal qualification, 21% had a school qualification, 28% had a tertiary certificate or diploma, and 35% have a bachelor's degree or higher.
new_zealand: As part of the resurgence of Māori culture, the traditional crafts of carving and weaving are now more widely practised, and Māori artists are increasing in number and influence.
new_zealand: With the signing of the treaty and declaration of sovereignty, the number of immigrants, particularly from the United Kingdom, began to increase.
new_zealand: Māori quickly adopted writing as a means of sharing ideas, and many of their oral stories and poems were converted to the written form.
new_zealand: Dunedin is a UNESCO City of Literature.
new_zealand: The service sector is the largest sector in the economy, followed by manufacturing and construction and then farming and raw material extraction.
new_zealand: The forests were dominated by birds, and the lack of mammalian predators led to some, like the kiwi, kākāpō, weka and takahē, evolving flightlessness.
new_zealand: The Cook Islands and Niue are self-governing states in free association with New Zealand.
new_zealand: New Zealand is long and narrow—over 1,600 kilometres (990 mi) along its north-north-east axis with a maximum width of 400 kilometres (250 mi)—with about 15,000 km (9,300 mi) of coastline and a total land area of 268,000 square kilometres (103,500 sq mi).
new_zealand: Since 2012, New Zealand has had a partnership arrangement with NATO under the Partnership Interoperability Initiative.
new_zealand: During the 1980s, New Zealand underwent major economic changes that transformed it from a protectionist to a liberalised free-trade economy.
new_zealand: New Zealand has a strong presence among the Pacific Island countries, and enjoys strong diplomatic relations with Samoa, Fiji, and Tonga, and among smaller nations.
new_zealand: The pre-eminent Māori architecture consisted of carved meeting houses (wharenui) decorated with symbolic carvings and illustrations.
new_zealand: Only Auckland and Christchurch have runways long enough for aircraft capable of long haul flights to Asia and the Americas.
new_zealand: The Gallipoli campaign played an important part in fostering New Zealand's national identity and strengthened the ANZAC tradition it shares with Australia.
new_zealand: There are 13 school years and attending state (public) schools is free to New Zealand citizens and permanent residents from a person's 5th birthday to the end of the calendar year following their 19th birthday.
new_zealand: In 2013 there were about 650,000 New Zealand citizens living in Australia, which is equivalent to 15% of the population of New Zealand.
new_zealand: The northern and northeastern parts of the South Island are the sunniest areas of the country and receive about 2,400–2,500 hours.
new_zealand: New Zealand's transport network comprises 94,000 kilometres (58,410 mi) of roads, including 199 kilometres (124 mi) of motorways, and 4,128 kilometres (2,565 mi) of railway lines.
new_zealand: After the 1982 UNCLOS, the islands contributed significantly to New Zealand's exclusive economic zone.
new_zealand: New Zealand is a constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary democracy, although its constitution is not codified.
new_zealand: However, Māori still regard their allegiance to tribal groups as a vital part of their identity, and Māori kinship roles resemble those of other Polynesian peoples.
new_zealand: The next year, in 1643, Hendrik Brouwer proved that the South American land was just a small island, and Dutch cartographers subsequently renamed Tasman's discovery Nova Zeelandia from Latin, after the Dutch province of Zeeland.
new_zealand: High demand for agricultural products from the United Kingdom and the United States helped New Zealanders achieve higher living standards than both Australia and Western Europe in the 1950s and 1960s.
new_zealand: That marked the smallest annual increase since 2013, outside 2021, when borders were largely closed during the COVID-19 outbreak.
new_zealand: As of July 2026, the total population has risen to an estimated 5,351,390.
new_zealand: While New Zealand is experiencing sub-replacement fertility, with a total fertility rate of 1.6 in 2020, the fertility rate is above the OECD average.
new_zealand: The Māori loanword Pākehā has been used to refer to New Zealanders of European descent, although some reject this name.
new_zealand: Before humans arrived, an estimated 80% of the land was covered in forest, with only high alpine, wet, infertile and volcanic areas without trees.
new_zealand: The number of New Zealand films significantly increased during the 1970s.
new_zealand: The flora and fauna of New Zealand were originally thought to have originated from New Zealand's fragmentation off from Gondwana; however, more recent evidence postulates species resulted from dispersal.
new_zealand: In September 2020 Statistics New Zealand reported that the population had climbed above 5 million people in September 2019, according to population estimates based on the 2018 census.
new_zealand: Certain items of popular culture thought to be unique to New Zealand are called "Kiwiana".
new_zealand: New Zealand's geographic isolation for 80 million years and island biogeography has influenced evolution of the country's species of animals, fungi and plants.
new_zealand: However, its military has had a global presence.
new_zealand: The Colonial Office sent Captain William Hobson to claim British sovereignty and negotiate a treaty with the Māori, prompted by growing unrest, the New Zealand Company's land-buying survey, and the legal ambiguity of the 1835 Declaration of Independence.
new_zealand: Charles III is the country's king and is represented by the governor-general, Cindy Kiro.
new_zealand: Most of the major sporting codes played in New Zealand have British origins.
new_zealand: In 1835, following an announcement of impending French settlement by Charles de Thierry, the nebulous United Tribes of New Zealand sent a Declaration of Independence to King William IV of the United Kingdom asking for protection.
new_zealand: In the 2023 census, 62.1% of residents responded as being ethnically New Zealand European, and 17.8% responded as being ethnically Māori.
new_zealand: Wellington was chosen for its central location, with Parliament officially sitting there for the first time in 1865.
new_zealand: Of the seven largest cities, Christchurch is the driest, receiving on average only 618 millimetres (24.3 in) of rain per year.
new_zealand: During the 1960s and 1970s, many artists combined traditional Māori and Western techniques, creating unique art forms.
new_zealand: Horse racing is one of the most popular spectator sports in New Zealand and was part of the "rugby, racing, and beer" subculture during the 1960s.
new_zealand: In 1973, New Zealand's export market was reduced when the United Kingdom joined the European Economic Community and other compounding factors, such as the 1973 oil and 1979 energy crises, led to a severe economic depression.
new_zealand: Following colonisation, immigrants were predominantly from Britain, Ireland and Australia because of restrictive policies similar to the White Australia policy.
new_zealand: New Zealand is involved in the Pacific Islands Forum, the Pacific Community, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Regional Forum (including the East Asia Summit).
new_zealand: The closest point between any territory of both countries is between Macquarie Island (Australia) and Auckland Island (New Zealand), which are about 618 kilometers (384 miles) apart.
new_zealand: New Zealand has seen regular sailing success in the America's Cup regatta since 1995.
new_zealand: For legacy systems which can only accept one ethnicity, people are usually allocated to a single ethnicity based on a pre-determined priority order, with Māori given highest priority and New Zealand European given lowest priority.
new_zealand: Following Cook, New Zealand was visited by numerous European and North American whaling, sealing, and trading ships.
new_zealand: Elections since the 1930s have been dominated by two political parties, National and Labour.
new_zealand: Participation in the world wars gave some New Zealand writers a new perspective on New Zealand culture and with the postwar expansion of universities local literature flourished.
new_zealand: The country's varied topography and sharp mountain peaks, including the Southern Alps (Kā Tiritiri o te Moana), owe much to tectonic uplift and volcanic eruptions.
new_zealand: In 2017, international visitor arrivals were expected to increase at a rate of 5.4% annually up to 2022.
new_zealand: Golf, netball, tennis and cricket have the highest rates of adult participation, while netball, rugby union and football (soccer) are particularly popular among young people.
new_zealand: New Zealand yields produce from land and sea—most crops and livestock, such as maize, potatoes and pigs, were gradually introduced by the early European settlers.
new_zealand: In 1840, representatives of the United Kingdom and Māori chiefs signed the Treaty of Waitangi, which paved the way for Britain's declaration of sovereignty later that year and the establishment of the Crown Colony of New Zealand in 1841.
new_zealand: New Zealand has four international airports: Auckland, Christchurch, Queenstown and Wellington.
new_zealand: In July 2023, New Zealand and the European Union entered into the EU–New Zealand Free Trade Agreement, which eliminated tariffs on several goods traded between the two regions.
new_zealand: Others are endangered or have had their range severely reduced.
new_zealand: Cabinet, formed by ministers and led by the prime minister, is the highest policy-making body in government and responsible for deciding significant government actions.
new_zealand: Their role is to research and develop new science, knowledge, products and services across the economic, environmental, social and cultural spectrum for the benefit of New Zealand.
new_zealand: Nearly one-quarter of highly skilled workers live overseas, mostly in Australia and Britain, which is the largest proportion from any developed nation.
new_zealand: New Zealand nationality law treats all parts of the realm equally, so most people born in New Zealand, the Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau, and the Ross Dependency are New Zealand citizens.
new_zealand: New Zealand television primarily broadcasts American and British programming, along with many Australian and local shows.
new_zealand: More penguin species are found in New Zealand than in any other country, with 13 of the world's 18 penguin species.
new_zealand: The Liberals also guaranteed a minimum wage in 1894, a world first.
new_zealand: Judges and judicial officers are appointed non-politically and under strict rules regarding tenure to help maintain judicial independence.
new_zealand: The number of fungi recorded from New Zealand, including lichen-forming species, is not known, nor is the proportion of those fungi which are endemic, but one estimate suggests there are about 2,300 species of lichen-forming fungi in New Zealand and 40% of these are endemic.
new_zealand: Under the MMP system, each person has two votes; one is for a candidate standing in the voter's electorate, and the other is for a party.
new_zealand: This set the names as North Island or Te Ika-a-Māui, and South Island or Te Waipounamu.
new_zealand: Around 80% are of European descent, 15% Maori, and others coming from China, the Pacific Islands and elsewhere.
new_zealand: The territorial authorities consist of 13 city councils, 53 district councils, and the Chatham Islands Council.
new_zealand: A distinctive feature of New Zealand cuisine is the casual way it is eaten, reflecting the country's laid-back lifestyle.
new_zealand: The resulting intertribal Musket Wars encompassed over 600 battles between 1801 and 1840, killing 30,000–40,000 Māori.
new_zealand: The supremacy of parliament over the Crown and other government institutions was established in England by the Bill of Rights 1689 and has been ratified as law in New Zealand.
new_zealand: Māori participation in European sports was particularly evident in rugby, and the country's team performs a haka, a traditional Māori challenge, before international matches.
new_zealand: Almost all general elections between 1853 and 1993 were held under the first-past-the-post voting system.
new_zealand: In the year to June 2018, dairy products accounted for 17.7% ($14.1 billion) of total exports, and the country's largest company, Fonterra, controls almost one-third of the international dairy trade.
new_zealand: For each island, either its English or Māori name can be used, or both can be used together.
new_zealand: The colony gained a representative government in 1852, and the first Parliament met in 1854.
new_zealand: New Zealand is organised into 11 regional councils and 67 territorial authorities for local government purposes.
new_zealand: In response to the New Zealand Company's attempts to establish an independent settlement in Wellington, Hobson declared British sovereignty over all of New Zealand on 21 May 1840, even though copies of the treaty were still circulating throughout the country for Māori to sign.
new_zealand: Summertime is popular for eating out in cafes or at a barbeque, where a range of meat and seafood is readily available.
new_zealand: A developed country, New Zealand was the first to introduce a minimum wage and to give women the right to vote.
new_zealand: According to Statistics New Zealand, the country recorded a net migration gain of 14,200 in 2025, down 9,600 from a year earlier.
new_zealand: Permanent migration is regulated under the 1970 Samoan Quota Scheme and the 2002 Pacific Access Category, which allow up to 1,100 Samoan nationals and up to 750 other Pacific Islanders respectively to become permanent New Zealand residents each year.
new_zealand: One example of structural inequality in New Zealand can be seen in the criminal justice system.
new_zealand: The Native Schools Act 1867 required instruction in English in all schools, and while no official policy banned children from speaking Māori, many suffered physical abuse if they did.
new_zealand: Deregulation in the 1980s saw a sudden increase in the numbers of radio and television stations.
new_zealand: The nearest continent is Australia to the west north west, with the shortest distance between the Australian and New Zealand mainlands being roughly 1,487 kilometers (924 miles) across the Tasman Sea, specifically between Tasmania and Fiordland.
new_zealand: Health New Zealand – Te Whatu Ora is the primary publicly funded healthcare system of New Zealand.
new_zealand: Although still largely influenced by global trends (modernism) and events (the Great Depression), writers in the 1930s began to develop stories increasingly focused on their experiences in New Zealand.
new_zealand: Pipe bands became widespread during the early 20th century.
new_zealand: A state-owned television service began in 1960.
new_zealand: Tourism plays a significant role in the economy, contributing $12.9 billion (or 5.6%) to New Zealand's total GDP and supporting 7.5% of the total workforce in 2016.
new_zealand: There is a wide choice offered in restaurants throughout the country.
new_zealand: Aotearoa (pronounced Māori pronunciation: [aɔˈtɛaɾɔa]  in Māori and  in English; often translated as 'land of the long white cloud') is the current Māori name for New Zealand.
new_zealand: A large proportion of New Zealand's aid goes to these countries, and many Pacific people migrate to New Zealand for employment.
new_zealand: According to the 2023 census, 51.6% of the "census usually resident population" had no religion, up from 48.2% in 2018 census.
new_zealand: The governor-general can exercise the Crown's prerogative powers, such as reviewing cases of injustice and making appointments of ministers, ambassadors, and other key public officials, and in rare situations, the reserve powers (e.g.
new_zealand: While officially the Chatham Islands Council is not a unitary authority, it undertakes many functions of a regional council.
new_zealand: It retains visible levels of inequality, including structural disparities between its Māori and European populations.
new_zealand: If no majority is formed, a minority government can be formed if support from other parties during confidence and supply votes is assured.
new_zealand: In 1978 the New Zealand Film Commission started assisting local film-makers, and many films attained a world audience, some receiving international acknowledgement.
new_zealand: The New Zealand media industry is dominated by a small number of companies, most of which are foreign-owned, although the state retains ownership of some television and radio stations.
new_zealand: A parliamentary general election must be called no later than three years after the previous election.
new_zealand: New Zealand English has a distinctive accent and lexicon.
new_zealand: The Ross Dependency is New Zealand's territorial claim in Antarctica, where it operates the Scott Base research facility.
new_zealand: Net migration increased after the Second World War; in the 1970s and 1980s policies on immigration were relaxed, and immigration from Asia was promoted.
new_zealand: New Zealand conservationists have pioneered several methods to help threatened wildlife recover, including island sanctuaries, pest control, wildlife translocation, fostering, and ecological restoration of islands and other protected areas.
new_zealand: From the early 20th century until the late 1960s, Māori culture was suppressed by the attempted assimilation of Māori into British New Zealanders.
new_zealand: More recently, American, Australian, Asian and other European cultures have exerted influence on New Zealand.
new_zealand: At the 1926 Imperial Conference, the Prime Ministers of the Dominions declared that Britain should provide them equal sovereignty to it.
new_zealand: Māori had several traditional names for the two main islands, including Te Ika-a-Māui ('the fish of Māui') for the North Island and Te Waipounamu ('the waters of greenstone') or Te Waka o Aoraki ('the canoe of Aoraki') for the South Island.
new_zealand: The governor-general appoints ministers under advice from the prime minister, who is by convention the parliamentary leader of the governing party or coalition.
new_zealand: At the time, New Zealand was not known as an intellectual country.
new_zealand: The two main islands (the North Island, or Te Ika-a-Māui, and the South Island, or Te Waipounamu) are separated by Cook Strait, 22 kilometres (14 mi) wide at its narrowest point.
new_zealand: Hindus are the second largest religious minority, forming the 2.9% of population, followed by Muslims on 1.5%.
new_zealand: The islands of New Zealand were the last large habitable land to be settled by humans.
new_zealand: New Zealand's national defence needs are modest since a direct attack is unlikely.
new_zealand: New Zealand participated at the Summer Olympics in 1908 and 1912 as a joint team with Australia, before first participating on its own in 1920.
new_zealand: Exports account for 24% of its output, making New Zealand vulnerable to international commodity prices and global economic slowdowns.
new_zealand: This scenario is also consistent with a debated third line of oral evidence, traditional genealogies (whakapapa) that point to around 1350 as a probable arrival date for several of the migratory waka (canoes) from which many Māori trace their descent.
new_zealand: "New Zealand".
new_zealand: The World Factbook, Central Intelligence Agency.
new_zealand: New Zealand is known for its extreme sports, adventure tourism and strong mountaineering tradition, as seen in the success of notable New Zealander Sir Edmund Hillary summiting Mount Everest first.
new_zealand: New Zealand's capital city is Wellington, and its most populous city is Auckland.
new_zealand: LGBT rights in the nation are also recognised as among the most tolerant in Oceania.
new_zealand: Today, the majority of New Zealand's population of around 5.3 million is of European descent; the indigenous Māori are the largest minority, followed by Asians and Pasifika.
new_zealand: The provinces are remembered in regional public holidays and sporting rivalries.
new_zealand: The Māori population declined to around 40% of its pre-contact level during the 19th century; introduced diseases were the major factor.
new_zealand: Some, such as the tuatara, are so unique that they have been called living fossils.
new_zealand: New Zealand Sign Language was reported to be understood by 22,986 people (0.5%); it became one of New Zealand's official languages in 2006.
new_zealand: As of 2017, the United Nations International Telecommunication Union ranks New Zealand 13th in the development of information and communications infrastructure.
new_zealand: There are 18 peaks over 3,000 metres (9,800 ft), the highest of which is Aoraki / Mount Cook at 3,724 metres (12,218 ft).
new_zealand: The Auckland Region exhibited the greatest religious diversity.
new_zealand: The service sector dominates the country's economy, followed by the industrial sector, and agriculture; international tourism is also a significant source of revenue.
new_zealand: Since human arrival, almost half of the country's vertebrate species have become extinct, including at least 51 birds, three frogs, three lizards, one freshwater fish, and one bat.
new_zealand: The exact date of this settlement is unclear, with recent sources favouring settlement in the 14th century.
new_zealand: The 2023 New Zealand census enumerated a resident population of 4,993,923, an increase of 6.3% over the 2018 census figure.
new_zealand: His duties, given to him by Governor Bourke in Sydney, were to protect settlers and traders "of good standing", prevent "outrages" against Māori, and apprehend escaped convicts.
new_zealand: New Zealand ranks highly for civic participation in the political process, with 82% voter turnout during recent general elections, compared to an OECD average of 69%.
new_zealand: By 2050, the median age is projected to rise to 43 years and the percentage of people 60 years of age and older to rise from 18% to 29%.
new_zealand: In 1830, mapmakers began to use "North" and "South" on their maps to distinguish the two largest islands, and by 1907, this was the accepted norm.
new_zealand: As a result, instructions were issued directing the Admiral on the Australian Station to hoist the British flag on the Kermadecs, which lie about 1,000 km (620 mi) northeast of Auckland.
new_zealand: These buildings were originally designed to be constantly rebuilt, changing and adapting to different whims or needs.
new_zealand: A hāngī is a traditional Māori method of cooking food using heated rocks buried in a pit oven that is still used for large groups on special occasions, such as tangihanga.
new_zealand: New Zealand, together with Australia, is part of a wider region known as Australasia.
new_zealand: Marine mammals are abundant, with almost half the world's cetaceans (whales, dolphins, and porpoises) and large numbers of fur seals reported in New Zealand waters.
new_zealand: Its exclusive economic zone is one of the world's largest, covering more than 15 times its land area.
new_zealand: Even as late as the 1960s it made up over a third of all export revenues, but since then its price has steadily dropped relative to other commodities, and wool is no longer profitable for many farmers.
new_zealand: The population has become more multicultural and diverse in recent decades: in 1961, the census reported that the population of New Zealand was 92% European and 7% Māori, with Asian and Pacific minorities sharing the remaining 1%.
new_zealand: Ischaemic heart disease is the leading cause of death, followed by Alzheimer disease and other dementias, and stroke.
new_zealand: New Zealand has an adult literacy rate of 99%, and over half of the population aged 15 to 29 hold a tertiary qualification.
new_zealand: Most international visitors arrive via air.
new_zealand: Unemployment peaked just above 10% in 1991 and 1992, following the 1987 share market crash, but eventually fell to 3.7% in 2007 (ranking third from twenty-seven comparable OECD nations).
new_zealand: In 2009–10, an annual target of 45,000–50,000 permanent residence approvals was set by the New Zealand Immigration Service—more than one new migrant for every 100 New Zealand residents.
new_zealand: A 2017 human rights report by the United States Department of State noted that the New Zealand government generally respected the rights of individuals, but voiced concerns regarding the social status of the Māori population.
new_zealand: This name was later anglicised to New Zealand.
new_zealand: Around 54% of New Zealand adolescents participate in sports for their school.
new_zealand: Health New Zealand is charged with working alongside the Public Health Agency to manage the provision of healthcare services in New Zealand.
new_zealand: Today New Zealand's economy benefits from a high level of innovation.
new_zealand: There are five types of government-owned tertiary institutions: universities, colleges of education, polytechnics, specialist colleges, and wānanga, in addition to private training establishments.
new_zealand: The New Zealand Space Agency was created by the government in 2016 for space policy, regulation and sector development.
new_zealand: The official languages are English, Māori, and New Zealand Sign Language, with the local dialect of English being dominant.
new_zealand: The regional councils' role is to regulate "the natural environment with particular emphasis on resource management", while territorial authorities are responsible for sewage, water, local roads, building consents, and other local matters.
new_zealand: Fiordland's steep mountains and deep fiords record the extensive ice age glaciation of this southwestern corner of the South Island.
new_zealand: Distinctive ingredients or dishes include lamb, salmon, kōura (crayfish), Bluff oysters, whitebait, pāua (abalone), mussels, scallops, pipi and tuatua (types of New Zealand shellfish), kūmara (sweet potato), kiwifruit, tamarillo, and pavlova (considered a national dessert).
new_zealand: It is divided along its length by the Southern Alps.
new_zealand: New Zealand's population today is concentrated to the north of the country, with around 76.4% of the population living in the North Island and 23.6% in the South Island as of June 2025.
new_zealand: Official website of New Zealand Tourism
General information
new_zealand: The North Island is less mountainous but is marked by volcanism.
new_zealand: Elsewhere, the plate boundary involves the subduction of one plate under the other, producing the Puysegur Trench to the south, the Hikurangi Trough east of the North Island, and the Kermadec and Tonga Trenches further north.
new_zealand: Five of the territorial councils are unitary authorities and also act as regional councils.
new_zealand: The Realm of New Zealand also includes Tokelau (a dependent territory); the Cook Islands and Niue (self-governing states in free association with New Zealand); and the Ross Dependency, which is New Zealand's territorial claim in Antarctica.
new_zealand: During the September 2021 quarter, the general unemployment rate was around 3.2%, while the unemployment rate for youth aged 15 to 24 was 9.2%.
new_zealand: New Zealand is an island country in the southwestern Pacific Ocean.
new_zealand: New Zealand's main trading partners, as at June 2018, are China (NZ$27.8b), Australia ($26.2b), the European Union ($22.9b), the United States ($17.6b), and Japan ($8.4b).
new_zealand: It is the sixth-largest island country by area and lies east of Australia across the Tasman Sea and south of the islands of New Caledonia, Fiji, and Tonga.
new_zealand: They have won the Men's Rugby World Cup three times.
new_zealand: Non-Māori Polynesian cultures are also apparent, with Pasifika, the world's largest Polynesian festival, now an annual event in Auckland.
new_zealand: New Zealand's judiciary, headed by the chief justice, includes the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, the High Court, and subordinate courts.
new_zealand: Reflecting this, New Zealand's culture mainly derives from Māori and early British settlers but has recently broadened from increased immigration.
new_zealand: Potatoes provided a reliable food surplus, which enabled longer and more sustained military campaigns.
new_zealand: The Māori language has recently undergone a process of revitalisation, being declared one of New Zealand's official languages in 1987, and is spoken by 4.0% of the population.
new_zealand: As of 2023, the country is ranked second in the strength of its democratic institutions, and third in government transparency and lack of corruption.
new_zealand: In 1642, the Dutch explorer Abel Tasman became the first European to sight and record New Zealand.
new_zealand: Moreover, child poverty in New Zealand has been identified by the Government as a major societal issue; the country has 12.0% of children living in low-income households that have less than 50% of the median equivalised disposable household income as of June 2022.
new_zealand: The majority of the country's electricity supply is generated from hydroelectric power, with major schemes on the Waikato, Waitaki and Clutha / Mata-Au rivers, as well as at Manapouri.
new_zealand: The powers of the monarch and the governor-general are limited by constitutional constraints and cannot normally be exercised without the advice of ministers.
new_zealand: The OECD's Programme for International Student Assessment ranks New Zealand as the 28th best in the OECD for maths, 13th best for science, and 11th best for reading.
new_zealand: The country is part of multiple international organisations and forums.
new_zealand: Māori developed a varied musical tradition around songs and chants, including ceremonial performances, laments, and love songs.
new_zealand: New Zealand ranks 21st in the OECD for its gross R&D spending as a percentage of GDP.
new_zealand: Historically, extractive industries have contributed strongly to New Zealand's economy, focusing at different times on sealing, whaling, flax, gold, kauri gum, and native timber.
new_zealand: This theoretically allows the judiciary to interpret the law based solely on the legislation enacted by Parliament without other influences on their decisions.
new_zealand: The country's isolation delayed the influence of European artistic trends allowing local artists to develop their own distinctive style of regionalism.
new_zealand: In the 2023 census, 28.8% of people counted were not born in New Zealand, up from 27.4% in the 2018 census.
new_zealand: The country is a member of the United Nations, the Commonwealth of Nations and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and participates in the Five Power Defence Arrangements.
new_zealand: Charles III is the King of New Zealand and thus the head of state.
new_zealand: In the 1960s, as tertiary education became more available, and cities expanded urban culture began to dominate, but rural imagery and themes are common in New Zealand's art, literature and media.
new_zealand: New Zealand.
new_zealand: Primary and secondary schooling is compulsory for children aged 6 to 16, with the majority of children attending from the age of 5.
new_zealand: English is the predominant language in New Zealand, spoken by 95.4% of the population.
new_zealand: These traditions hold that Kupe was followed by a great fleet of settlers, who set out from Hawaiki in eastern Polynesia around 1350.
new_zealand: The king is represented by the governor-general, whom he appoints on the advice of the prime minister.
new_zealand: The two main types of forest are those dominated by broadleaf trees with emergent podocarps, or by southern beech in cooler climates.
new_zealand: The remaining vegetation types consist of grasslands, the majority of which are tussock.
new_zealand: In 1921, the country's median centre of population was in the Tasman Sea west of Levin in Manawatū-Whanganui; by 2017, it had moved 280 km (170 mi) north to near Kawhia in Waikato.
new_zealand: New Zealand became a dominion in 1907; it gained full statutory independence in 1947, retaining the monarch as head of state.
new_zealand: Since 1876, various councils have administered local areas under legislation determined by the central government.
new_zealand: As of 2022, the agency is New Zealand's largest employer, consolidating the DHBs' combined work force of 80,000, with an estimated annual operating budget of NZ$20 billion and an asset base of about NZ$24 billion.
new_zealand: The largely rural life in early New Zealand led to the image of New Zealanders as rugged, industrious problem solvers.
new_zealand: While mitochondrial DNA variability within Māori populations suggests that New Zealand was first settled between 1250 and 1300, no human remains, artefacts or structures can be reliably dated to earlier than the Kaharoa eruption of Mount Tarawera around 1314.
new_zealand: About 25 million years ago, a shift in plate tectonic movements began to contort and crumple the region.
new_zealand: New Zealand was administered as a dependency of the Colony of New South Wales until becoming a separate Crown colony, the Colony of New Zealand, on 3 May 1841.
new_zealand: These islands put the northern border of New Zealand at 29 degrees South latitude.
new_zealand: During the period of the New Zealand colony, Britain was responsible for external trade and foreign relations.
new_zealand: Following these armed conflicts, large areas of Māori land were confiscated by the government.
new_zealand: In the mid-1980s New Zealand deregulated its agricultural sector by phasing out subsidies over a three-year period.
new_zealand: New Zealand has an advanced market economy, ranked 16th in the 2022 Human Development Index, and fourth in the 2022 Index of Economic Freedom.
new_zealand: The New Zealand Post Office had a monopoly over telecommunications in New Zealand until 1987 when Telecom New Zealand was formed, initially as a state-owned enterprise and then privatised in 1990.
new_zealand: This was written as Nu Tireni in the Māori language (spelt Nu Tirani in Te Tiriti o Waitangi).
new_zealand: The All Blacks, the national rugby union team, are the most successful in the history of international rugby.
new_zealand: It also included an upper house, the Legislative Council, until this was abolished in 1950.
new_zealand: Similarly the Māori and English names for the whole country are sometimes used together (Aotearoa New Zealand); however, this has no official recognition.
new_zealand: New Zealand has experienced a series of "brain drains" since the 1970s that still continue today.
new_zealand: Food products made up 55% of the value of all the country's exports in 2014; wood was the second largest earner (7%).
new_zealand: Wool was New Zealand's major agricultural export during the late 19th century.
new_zealand: Unemployment rates for different age groups follow similar trends but are consistently higher among youth.
new_zealand: For instance, in 2016, Auckland was ranked the world's third most liveable city and Wellington the twelfth by the Mercer Quality of Living Survey.
new_zealand: However, the local fashion industry has grown significantly since 2000, doubling exports and increasing from a handful to about 50 established labels, with some labels gaining international recognition.
new_zealand: There was also significant Dutch, Dalmatian, German, and Italian immigration, together with indirect European immigration through Australia, North America, South America and South Africa.
new_zealand: Greenstone was fashioned into earrings and necklaces, with the most well-known design being the hei-tiki, a distorted human figure sitting cross-legged with its head tilted to the side.
new_zealand: A large-scale rollout of gigabit-capable fibre to the premises, branded as Ultra-Fast Broadband, began in 2009 with a target of being available to 87% of the population by 2022.
new_zealand: the power to dissolve Parliament or refuse the royal assent of a bill into law).
new_zealand: The 1923 and 1926 Imperial Conferences decided that New Zealand should be allowed to negotiate its own political treaties, and the first commercial treaty was ratified in 1928 with Japan.
new_zealand: However, the 2008 financial crisis had a major effect on New Zealand, with the GDP shrinking for five consecutive quarters, the longest recession in over thirty years, and unemployment rising back to 7% in late 2009.
new_zealand: It consists of two main landmasses—the North Island (Te Ika-a-Māui) and the South Island (Te Waipounamu)—and over 600 smaller islands.
new_zealand: In 1989, the government reorganised local government into the current two-tier structure of regional councils and territorial authorities.
new_zealand: Conditions vary sharply across regions, from extremely wet on the West Coast of the South Island to semi-arid in Central Otago and the Mackenzie Basin of inland Canterbury and subtropical in Northland.
new_zealand: Recorded Music NZ also publishes the country's official weekly record charts.
new_zealand: It was prepared by Te W(h)akaminenga o Nga Rangatiratanga o Nga Hapu o Nu Tireni, the United Tribes of New Zealand, and a copy was sent to King William IV, who had already acknowledged the flag of the United Tribes of New Zealand and who recognised the declaration in a letter from Lord Glenelg.
new_zealand: Other outdoor pursuits such as cycling, fishing, swimming, running, tramping, canoeing, hunting, snowsports, surfing and sailing are also popular.
new_zealand: New Zealand is prone to earthquakes.
new_zealand: The country fought in both world wars, with notable campaigns in Gallipoli, Crete, El Alamein, and Monte Cassino.
new_zealand: New Zealand's military services—the New Zealand Defence Force—comprise the New Zealand Army, the Royal New Zealand Air Force and the Royal New Zealand Navy.
new_zealand: Many places have both their Māori and English names officially recognised.
new_zealand: But this is untrue of local council elections; a historically low 36% of eligible New Zealanders voted in the 2022 local elections, compared with an already low 42% turnout in 2019.
new_zealand: The Treaty of Waitangi was first signed in the Bay of Islands on 6 February 1840.
new_zealand: New Zealand achieved a record net migration gain of 135,500 people in the year ended October 2023.
new_zealand: The road and rail networks in the two main islands are linked by roll-on/roll-off ferries between Wellington and Picton, operated by Interislander (part of KiwiRail) and Bluebridge.
new_zealand: During the 20th century, New Zealand's population drifted north.
new_zealand: It has contributed forces to several regional and global peacekeeping missions, such as those in Cyprus, Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Sinai, Angola, Cambodia, the Iran–Iraq border, Bougainville, East Timor, and the Solomon Islands.
new_zealand: The influence of the United States on New Zealand weakened following protests over the Vietnam War, the refusal of the United States to admonish France after the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior, disagreements over environmental and agricultural trade issues, and New Zealand's nuclear-free policy.
new_zealand: Archived 7 June 2008.
new_zealand: Crown Research Institutes (CRIs) were formed in 1992 from existing government-owned research organisations.
new_zealand: Close political contact is maintained between the two countries, with free trade agreements and travel arrangements that allow citizens to visit, live and work in both countries without restrictions.
new_zealand: The accumulation of knowledge of agricultural practice and the effects of herbal remedies in the treatment of illness and disease by Māori tohunga as well as their precise observation of nature might be considered an indigenous contribution to science in New Zealand.
new_zealand: In a hostile 1642 encounter between Ngāti Tūmatakōkiri and Abel Tasman's crew, four of Tasman's crew members were killed and at least one Māori was hit by canister shot.
new_zealand: The highest-grossing New Zealand films are Hunt for the Wilderpeople, Boy, The World's Fastest Indian, Whale Rider, Once Were Warriors, Tinā, Heavenly Creatures, What We Do in the Shadows and The Piano.
new_zealand: New Zealand is a member of the Five Eyes intelligence sharing agreement, known formally as the UKUSA Agreement.
new_zealand: A seasonal workers scheme for temporary migration was introduced in 2007, and in 2009 about 8,000 Pacific Islanders were employed under it.
new_zealand: The Polynesian sport of waka ama racing has experienced a resurgence of interest in New Zealand since the 1980s.
new_zealand: Many seabirds breed in New Zealand, a third of them unique to the country.
new_zealand: Europeans did not revisit New Zealand until 1769, when British explorer James Cook mapped almost the entire coastline.
new_zealand: In 1975, the Waitangi Tribunal was set up to investigate alleged breaches of the Treaty, and it was enabled to investigate historic grievances in 1985.
new_zealand: Since 1994, Freedom House has consistently ranked New Zealand's press freedom in the top twenty, with the 19th freest media as of 2015.
new_zealand: Since 1984, successive governments engaged in major macroeconomic restructuring (known first as Rogernomics and then Ruthanasia), rapidly transforming New Zealand from a protectionist and highly regulated economy to a liberalised free-trade economy.
new_zealand: The first people to reach New Zealand were Polynesians in oceangoing waka, who are believed to have arrived in several waves between about 1280 and 1350.
new_zealand: Historical maxima and minima are 42.4 °C (108.32 °F) in Rangiora, Canterbury and −25.6 °C (−14.08 °F) in Ranfurly, Otago.
new_zealand: Today, New Zealand enjoys particularly close relations with the United States and is one of its major non-NATO allies, as well as with Australia, with a "Trans-Tasman" identity between citizens of the latter being common.
new_zealand: Early settlers brought over their ethnic music, with brass bands and choral music being popular, and musicians began touring New Zealand in the 1860s.
new_zealand: These conflicts, mainly in the North Island, saw thousands of imperial troops and the Royal Navy come to New Zealand and became known as the New Zealand Wars.
new_zealand: On 7 April 2008, New Zealand and China signed the New Zealand–China Free Trade Agreement, the first such agreement China has signed with a developed country.
new_zealand: Official website of the New Zealand Government
New Zealand Ministry for Culture and Heritage – includes information on flag, anthems and coat of arms
Statistics New Zealand
Travel
new_zealand: The state-owned enterprise KiwiRail now operates the railways, with the exception of commuter services in Auckland and Wellington, which are operated by Auckland One Rail and Transdev Wellington respectively.
new_zealand: Early in the 20th century, New Zealand was involved in world affairs, fighting in the First and Second World Wars and suffering through the Great Depression.
new_zealand: Railways run the length of the country, although most lines now carry freight rather than passengers.
new_zealand: Early European maps labelled the islands North (North Island), Middle (South Island), and South (Stewart Island / Rakiura).
new_zealand: New Zealand has competitive international teams in rugby union, rugby league, netball, cricket, softball, and sailing.
new_zealand: In 1856 the colony effectively became self-governing, gaining responsibility over all domestic matters, except native policy, which was granted in the mid-1860s.
new_zealand: This free trade agreement expanded on the pre-existing free trade agreement and saw a reduction in tariffs on meat and dairy in response to feedback from the affected industries.
new_zealand: On 3 September 1939, New Zealand allied itself with Britain and declared war on Germany with Prime Minister Michael Joseph Savage proclaiming, "Where she goes, we go; where she stands, we stand".
new_zealand: Tokelau is classified as a non-self-governing territory, but is administered by a council of three elders (one from each Tokelauan atoll).
new_zealand: Under legislation passed in London, New Zealand was divided into six provinces in 1853.
new_zealand: Because of financial pressures and the desire to consolidate railways, education, land sales, and other policies, government was centralised and the provinces were abolished in 1876.
new_zealand: Modesty was expected and enforced through the "tall poppy syndrome", where high achievers received harsh criticism.
new_zealand: The New Zealand Parliament cannot pass legislation for these countries, but with their consent can act on behalf of them in foreign affairs and defence.
new_zealand: Following concerns that the South Island might form a separate colony, premier Alfred Domett moved a resolution to transfer the capital from Auckland to a locality near Cook Strait.
new_zealand: Wellington is the wettest, receiving almost twice that amount.
new_zealand: Armed conflict began between the colonial government and Māori in 1843 with the Wairau Affray over land and disagreements over sovereignty.
new_zealand: Regional authorities provide water abstraction, treatment and distribution infrastructure to most developed areas.
new_zealand: The country has ranked highly on a medals-to-population ratio at recent Games.
new_zealand: The depression led to the election of the first Labour Government and the establishment of a comprehensive welfare state and a protectionist economy.
new_zealand: However, New Zealand's non-European population is disproportionately concentrated in the North Island and especially in the Auckland Region: while Auckland is home to 33% of New Zealand's population, it is home to 62% of the country's Pasifika population and 60% of its Asian population.
new_zealand: New Zealand's population increased at a rate of 1.9% per year in the seven years ended June 2020.
new_zealand: Public radio was introduced in New Zealand in 1922.
new_zealand: The arrival of humans, associated changes to habitat, and the introduction of rats, ferrets and other mammals led to the extinction of many bird species, including large birds like the moa and Haast's eagle.
new_zealand: The median age of the New Zealand population at the 2018 census was 37.4 years, with life expectancy in 2017–2019 being 80.0 years for males and 83.5 years for females.
new_zealand: In contrast, dairy farming increased, with the number of dairy cows doubling between 1990 and 2007, to become New Zealand's largest export earner.
new_zealand: Māori-language immersion schools and two Māori-language television channels now exist.
new_zealand: Physical isolation has caused biological isolation, resulting in a dynamic evolutionary ecology with examples of distinctive plants and animals as well as populations of widespread species.
new_zealand: Surface patterns consisting of spirals, ridges, notches and fish scales decorate most carvings.
new_zealand: This is now most evident in the Southern Alps, formed by compression of the crust beside the Alpine Fault.
new_zealand: In 1907, at the request of the New Zealand Parliament, King Edward VII proclaimed New Zealand a Dominion within the British Empire, reflecting its self-governing status.
new_zealand: Poverty has a disproportionately high effect in ethnic-minority households, with a quarter (23.3%) of Māori children and almost a third (28.6%) of Pacific Islander children living in poverty as of 2020.
new_zealand: The Realm of New Zealand, one of 15 Commonwealth realms, is the entire area over which the king or queen of New Zealand is sovereign and comprises New Zealand, Tokelau, the Ross Dependency, the Cook Islands, and Niue.
new_zealand: Examples include the Cawthron Institute, the Livestock Improvement Corporation, the Fonterra Research and Development Centre, the Bragato Research Institute, the Kiwifruit Breeding Centre, and B+LNZ Genetics.
new_zealand: List of New Zealand-related topics
Outline of New Zealand
new_zealand: New Zealand was ranked 26th in the Global Innovation Index in 2025.
new_zealand: It is unknown whether Māori had a name for the whole country before the arrival of Europeans; Aotearoa originally referred to just the North Island.
new_zealand: The House of Representatives is democratically elected, and a government is formed from the party or coalition with the majority of seats.
new_zealand: New Zealand experienced increasing prosperity following the Second World War, and Māori began to leave their traditional rural life and move to the cities in search of work.
new_zealand: As recorded in the 2018 census, Samoan is the most widely spoken non-official language (2.2%), followed by "Northern Chinese" (including Mandarin, 2.0%), Hindi (1.5%), and French (1.2%).
new_zealand: The most popular countries of origin for overseas-born residents were England (14.6%), mainland China (10.2%), India (10.0%), the Philippines (7.0%), South Africa (6.7%), Australia (6.1%), Fiji (4.8%) and Samoa (4.3%).
new_zealand: Other major ethnicities include Chinese (5.2%), Indian (5.1%), Samoan (4.3%), Filipino (2.2%), Tongan (2.0%), Cook Islands Maori (1.9%), and English (1.4%) 13.2% responded with multiple ethnicities, with 8.2% alone responding as both European and Māori.
new_zealand: The general snow season is early June until early October, though cold snaps can occur outside this season.
new_zealand: According to the 2024 Global Peace Index, New Zealand is the 4th most peaceful country in the world.
new_zealand: Following further legislation shortly afterwards three further provinces were created from three of the original six, leaving the country with nine provinces in 1862, each with a degree of autonomy under an elected superintendent.
new_zealand: The five members of this agreement comprise the core Anglosphere: Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
new_zealand: As of 2023, New Zealand allocated about 9.6 percent of its GDP to healthcare, slightly above the OECD average of 8.8 percent.
new_zealand: More parties have been represented in Parliament since the introduction of MMP.
new_zealand: Portraits of Māori were also common, with early painters often portraying them as an ideal race untainted by civilisation.
new_zealand: The four main companies in the generation and retail market are Contact Energy, Genesis Energy, Mercury Energy and Meridian Energy.
new_zealand: The national cuisine has been described as "Pacific Rim, with food drawing inspiration from Europe, Asia and Polynesia".
new_zealand: About 82% of New Zealand's indigenous vascular plants are endemic, covering 1,944 species across 65 genera.
new_zealand: Recognised as a middle power, New Zealand ranks very highly in international measures of quality of life and human rights and has one of the lowest levels of perceived corruption in the world.
new_zealand: The provision of water supply and sanitation is generally of good quality.
new_zealand: The number of fee-paying international students and international exchange students increased sharply in the late 1990s, with more than 20,000 studying in public tertiary institutions in 2002.
new_zealand: It is similar to Australian English, and many speakers from the Northern Hemisphere are unable to tell the accents apart.
new_zealand: Standards have since relaxed and New Zealand fashion has received a reputation for being casual, practical and lacklustre.
new_zealand: The 249 municipalities that existed in 1975 have been consolidated into 67 territorial authorities and 11 regional councils.
new_zealand: New Zealand cities generally rank highly on international livability measures.
new_zealand: The highly active Taupō Volcanic Zone has formed a large volcanic plateau, punctuated by the North Island's highest mountain, Mount Ruapehu (2,797 metres (9,177 ft)).
new_zealand: In 1769, the British explorer Captain James Cook became the first European to set foot on and map New Zealand.
new_zealand: The first shipment of refrigerated meat on the Dunedin in 1882 led to the establishment of meat and dairy exports to Britain, a trade which provided the basis for strong economic growth in New Zealand.
new_zealand: In 1951, New Zealand, Australia, and the US signed the ANZUS Treaty.
new_zealand: Other exports in 2017–18 were meat (8.8%), wood and wood products (6.2%), fruit (3.6%), machinery (2.2%) and wine (2.1%).
new_zealand: In 1893, New Zealand was the first nation in the world to grant all women the right to vote and pioneered the adoption of compulsory arbitration between employers and unions in 1894.
new_zealand: Members of Cabinet make major decisions collectively and are therefore collectively responsible for the consequences of these decisions.
new_zealand: Māori cloaks are made of fine flax fibre and patterned with black, red and white triangles, diamonds and other geometric shapes.
new_zealand: Since 1937, the islands have been uninhabited except for about six people at Raoul Island station.
new_zealand: The British Government appointed James Busby as British Resident to New Zealand in 1832.
new_zealand: New Zealand is identified as one of the world's most stable and well-governed states.
new_zealand: New Zealand's climate is predominantly temperate maritime (Köppen: Cfb), with mean annual temperatures ranging from 10 °C (50 °F) in the south to 16 °C (61 °F) in the north.
new_zealand: The Māori were the first people to reach New Zealand, followed by the early European settlers.
new_zealand: Between about 1280 and 1350, Polynesians began to settle in the islands and subsequently developed a distinctive Māori culture.
new_zealand: The public healthcare system operates under a publicly funded health insurance model that supports inpatient and outpatient services at public hospitals, along with preventive and primary care through private providers.
new_zealand: The country's railways were privatised in 1993 but were re-nationalised by the government in stages between 2004 and 2008.
new_zealand: The word today is increasingly used to refer to all non-Polynesian New Zealanders.
new_zealand: Living standards in New Zealand fell behind those of Australia and Western Europe, and by 1982 New Zealand had the lowest per-capita income of all the developed nations surveyed by the World Bank.
new_zealand: Subsequently, a series of conflicts between the colonial government and Māori tribes resulted in the alienation and confiscation of large amounts of Māori land.
new_zealand: Statistics New Zealand allows people to choose multiple ethnicities and reports ethnic data based on total responses, therefore ethnicities add up to more than 100%.
new_zealand: Māori decorated the white wood of buildings, canoes and cenotaphs using red (a mixture of red ochre and shark fat) and black (made from soot) paint and painted pictures of birds, reptiles and other designs on cave walls.
new_zealand: The 42nd and current prime minister, since 27 November 2023, is Christopher Luxon.
new_zealand: Auckland, with over 1.4 million residents, is by far the largest city.
new_zealand: New Zealand is near the centre of the water hemisphere and is made up of two main islands and more than 700 smaller islands.
new_zealand: In addition the two world wars, New Zealand fought in the Second Boer War, the Korean War, the Malayan Emergency, the Vietnam War, the Gulf War, and the Afghanistan War.
new_zealand: New Zealand and Australia have a strong relationship and are considered to share a strong Trans-Tasman identity, stemming from centuries of British colonisation.
new_zealand: According to most Māori oral traditions, the islands were first discovered by the semi-legendary explorer Kupe while in pursuit of a giant octopus.
new_zealand: The New Zealand Parliament holds legislative power and consists of the king and the House of Representatives.
new_zealand: Fish and chips is a national favorite takeaway.
new_zealand: New Zealand art and craft has gradually achieved an international audience, with exhibitions in the Venice Biennale in 2001 and the "Paradise Now" exhibition in New York in 2004.
new_zealand: From the early 19th century, Christian missionaries began to settle New Zealand, eventually converting most of the Māori population.
new_zealand: The existence of a single great fleet that settled New Zealand has since been superseded by the belief that the majority of settlement was a planned and deliberate event that occurred over several decades.
new_zealand: New Zealand is part of Zealandia, a microcontinent nearly half the size of Australia that gradually submerged after breaking away from the Gondwanan supercontinent.
new_zealand: Most private and commercial research organisations in New Zealand focus on the agricultural and fisheries sectors.
new_zealand: Most early English literature was obtained from Britain, and it was not until the 1950s when local publishing outlets increased that New Zealand literature started to become widely known.
new_zealand: While the demonym for a New Zealand citizen is New Zealander, the informal "Kiwi" is commonly used both internationally and by locals.
new_zealand: The increase of this since the 1960s led to the formation of the Pasifika New Zealander pan-ethnic group, the fourth-largest ethnic grouping in the country.
new_zealand: Besides the North and South Islands, the five largest inhabited islands are Stewart Island (across the Foveaux Strait), Chatham Island, Great Barrier Island (in the Hauraki Gulf), D'Urville Island (in the Marlborough Sounds) and Waiheke Island (about 22 km (14 mi) from central Auckland).
new_zealand: Nationally, legislative authority is vested in an elected, unicameral Parliament, while executive political power is exercised by the Government, led by the prime minister, currently Christopher Luxon.
new_zealand: In 1947, New Zealand adopted the Statute of Westminster implementing the declaration, confirming that the British Parliament could no longer legislate for the country without its consent.
new_zealand: According to the Ministry of Justice, Māori are overrepresented, comprising 45% of New Zealanders convicted of crimes and 53% of those imprisoned, while only being 16.5% of the population.
