nigeria: Abuja is home to several parks and green areas.
nigeria: Benin's power lasted between the 15th and 19th centuries.
nigeria: The northern part of the country became larger than the southern part.
nigeria: In 2021, Nigeria hosts about 60 percent of the pharmaceutical production capacity in Africa, the larger pharmaceutical companies are located in Lagos.
nigeria: Ibrahim Babangida overthrew Buhari in the coup d'état of 1985.
nigeria: Despite these revenues, the military government did little to improve the standard of living, help small and medium businesses, or invest in infrastructure.
nigeria: Refining petroleum also inevitably produces heavy oil, which is "cracked" into lighter fuel components in regular plants at great technical expense.
nigeria: Muslim penal codes are not the same in every state and they differentiate in punishment and offences according to religious affiliation (for example, alcohol consumption and distribution).
nigeria: The federal government is responsible for 35,000 km of the road network.
nigeria: After the coup attempt, General Olusegun Obasanjo was appointed military head of state.
nigeria: Health care delivery in Nigeria is a concurrent responsibility of the three tiers of government in the country, and the private sector.
nigeria: The United States carried out a strike against Islamic State militants in northwest Nigeria on 25 December 2025 at the request of Tinubu's government, marking the first foreign military intervention in post-independence Nigeria.
nigeria: In the early 1990s, Scrabble was made an official sport in Nigeria; by the end of 2017, there were around 4,000 players in more than 100 clubs in the country.
nigeria: Obasanjo vowed to continue Murtala's policies.
nigeria: Protestant and locally cultivated Christianity are widely practised in Western areas, while Catholicism is a more prominent Christian feature of southeastern Nigeria.
nigeria: It experienced a civil war from 1967 to 1970, followed by a succession of military dictatorships and democratically elected civilian governments until achieving a stable government in the 1999 Nigerian presidential election.
nigeria: By 1902, the British had begun plans to move north into the Sokoto Caliphate.
nigeria: On 1 January 1914, the British formally united the Southern Nigeria Protectorate and the Northern Nigeria Protectorate into the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria.
nigeria: Nigeria, officially the Federal Republic of Nigeria, is a country in West Africa between the Sahel to the north and the Gulf of Guinea in the Atlantic Ocean to the south.
nigeria: Female genital mutilation is common, although a ban was implemented in 2015.
nigeria: Nigeria, Democracy Now!
nigeria: Football is largely considered Nigeria's national sport, and the country has its own professional football league.
nigeria: The Fall and Rise of Political Leaders: Olof Palme, Olusegun Obasanjo, and Indira Gandhi.
nigeria: By the mid-1990s, Hip hop Music began to gain popularity, led by acts such as Remedies, Trybes Men, JJC, etc.
nigeria: The parliamentary system of government had Abubakar Tafawa Balewa as Prime Minister and Nnamdi Azikiwe as the ceremonial president.
nigeria: Four trans-African automobile routes pass through Nigeria:
nigeria: The Middle Belt of Nigeria is known for its diversity of ethnic groups, including the Atyap, Berom, Goemai, Igala, Kofyar, Pyem, and Tiv.
nigeria: The military coup of Muhammadu Buhari shortly after the regime's re-election in 1984 was generally viewed as a positive development.
nigeria: It will increase the capacity of the airport to 14 million passengers per year.
nigeria: As in other parts of Africa where Islam and Christianity are dominant, religious syncretism with the traditional African religions is common.
nigeria: doi:10.4324/9781003752592.
nigeria: Israel sponsored and oversaw the construction of Nigeria's parliament buildings.
nigeria: In 1979, five political parties competed in a series of elections in which Alhaji Shehu Shagari of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) was elected president.
nigeria: All five parties won representation in the National Assembly.
nigeria: Nigeria's national football team, known as the "Super Eagles", has played in the FIFA World Cup on six occasions (1994, 1998, 2002, 2010, 2014, and 2018).
nigeria: By the 1990s, reggae music transitioned into the music scene.
nigeria: Haphazard industrial planning, increased urbanisation, poverty, and the lack of competence of the municipal government are seen as the major reasons for high levels of waste pollution in the country's major cities.
nigeria: The rest is from hydropower (27%).
nigeria: Insecurity heightened drastically under Buhari with banditry, insurgency and separatist agitations increasingly widespread.
nigeria: The security situation in Nigeria is considered inadequate despite political stability.
nigeria: The legacy, though less pronounced, continues to the present day.
nigeria: Until this point, the Fulani, a nomadic foreign ethnic group, primarily traversed the semi-desert region with cattle.
nigeria: In 2017, Nigeria signed the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
nigeria: Shillington, Kevin.
nigeria: Its status as a major petroleum producer figures prominently in its sometimes volatile international relations with developed countries, notably the United States, and with developing countries.
nigeria: A 2017 World Bank report on logistics hubs in Africa placed the country in fourth place, behind Côte d'Ivoire, Senegal, and Sao Tome, but in 2021, Nigeria joined the World Logistics Passport, a private sector group working to increase the effiency of global trade.
nigeria: It also has signed the Maputo Protocol, an international treaty on women's rights, and the African Union Women's Rights Framework.
nigeria: But the Iron Age in the Niger River valley and the forest region appears to predate the introduction of metallurgy in the upper savanna by more than 800 years, as well as predating it in the Nile Valley.
nigeria: At the time, it was the most expensive election ever to be held on the African continent (being surpassed only by the elections of 2019 and 2023).
nigeria: Members of the clan trace their lineages back to the patriarchal king-figure Eri.
nigeria: Travelling is very difficult.
nigeria: In the Sahel region, rain is less than 500 millimetres (20 in) per year, and the Sahara Desert is encroaching.
nigeria: As oil production and revenue rose, the Nigerian government became increasingly dependent on oil revenues and international commodity markets for budgetary and economic concerns.
nigeria: Nigeria had in the past operated a state-owned airline Nigeria Airways which was over-indebted in 2003 and was bought by the British Virgin Group; since 28 June 2005, it has flown under the name Virgin Nigeria Airways.
nigeria: In 2017 agreements were signed for the construction of the Itu nuclear power plant.
nigeria: Nigeria is the birthplace of the sport loofball.
nigeria: Nigeria had a 2019 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 6.2/10, ranking it 82nd globally out of 172 countries.
nigeria: Economically strong states such as Lagos, Anambra and Rivers receive particularly poor evaluations.
nigeria: Nigeria was ranked 105th in the Global Innovation Index in 2025.
nigeria: The Nok culture, c.
nigeria: Lagos also has many private beach resorts including Inagbe Grand Beach Resort and several others in the outskirts.
nigeria: In response, the new Buhari government pursued a dual strategy of repression and negotiation.
nigeria: They won the gold medal for football in the 1996 Summer Olympics (in which they beat Argentina) becoming the first African football team to win gold in Olympic football.
nigeria: The highest point in Nigeria is Chappal Waddi at 2,419 m (7,936 ft).
nigeria: The education system is divided into kindergarten, primary education, secondary education and tertiary education.
nigeria: By 1907, resistance to European rule in the area had been quelled.
nigeria: The present day territory of Nigeria was home to a vast array of city-states.
nigeria: The Congolese government under President Joseph-Désiré Mobututook an early stand on the Biafran secession, voicing strong support for the Nigerian federal government and deploying thousands of troops to fight against the secessionists.
nigeria: English law in Nigeria consists of the collection of British laws from colonial times.
nigeria: Nigeria: Its peoples and its problems.
nigeria: Lagos is the largest city in Africa, with a population of over 12 million in its urban area.
nigeria: The World Bank stated in March 2022 that the number of poor Nigerians had increased by 5 million to 95.1 million during the Covid period.
nigeria: Britain intervened in the Lagos kingship power struggle by bombarding Lagos in 1851, deposing the slave-trade-friendly Oba Kosoko, helping to install the amenable Oba Akitoye and signing the Treaty between Great Britain and Lagos on 1 January 1852.
nigeria: The UK and Soviet Union were the main military backers of the Nigerian government, with Nigeria utilising air support from Egyptian pilots provided by Gamal Abdel Nasser, while France and Israel aided the Biafrans.
nigeria: Before the Nigerian Civil War and the oil boom, Nigeria was self-sufficient in food.
nigeria: The first coup was in January 1966 and was led mostly by soldiers under Majors Emmanuel Ifeajuna (of the Igbo tribe), Chukwuma Kaduna Nzeogwu (Northerner of Eastern extraction) and Adewale Ademoyega (a Yoruba from the West).
nigeria: Nigeria's Delta region is one of the most polluted regions in the world due to serious oil spills and other environmental problems caused by its oil industry.
nigeria: There is rampant polygamy in Northern Nigeria.
nigeria: It is also being used in Lagos State, Oyo State, Kwara State, Ogun State, and Osun State by Muslims.
nigeria: In individual cases, these clashes have claimed several hundred lives.
nigeria: Library of Congress.
nigeria: Babangida established the Nigerian Political Bureau in 1986 which made recommendations for the transition to the Third Nigerian Republic.
nigeria: Sahel savannah consists of patches of grass and sand, found in the northeast.
nigeria: Representatives speak of "war" – against each other.
nigeria: In the decades thereafter, the restoration of democracy and subsequent economic reforms led to rapid growth.
nigeria: By the end of 2013, the film industry reportedly hit a record-breaking revenue of ₦1.72 trillion (US$4.1 billion).
nigeria: In the 1390s, sultan Biri III Uthman, king of Bornu in northeastern Nigeria, wrote a letter to Barquq, sultan of Egypt at the time.
nigeria: In August 2014, Shell said it was finalising its interests in four Nigerian oil fields.
nigeria: The new mega-opposition party chose as their candidate for the election former military dictator Muhammadu Buhari.
nigeria: There are 54 airports in Nigeria, The principal airports are:
nigeria: The fashion industry in Nigeria contributes significantly to the country's economics.
nigeria: By the eve of independence in 1960, regional differences in modern educational access were marked.
nigeria: While many international oil companies have operated there for decades, by 2014 most were making moves to divest their interests, citing a range of issues including oil theft.
nigeria: Nigeria's rice production increased by 10% from 2017/18 to 2021/22, reaching 5 million tonnes per year, but it failed to keep up with rising demand.
nigeria: The Christian share of Nigeria's population is in decline because of the lower fertility rate compared to Muslims in the country.
nigeria: As of 2023, Nigeria's economy is classified as lower-middle-income.
nigeria: As of 2020, the Pew Research Center reported that Nigeria's Muslim majority numbered around 56.1% while the country's Christian share had declined to 43%.
nigeria: According to its own information, the Ajaokuta Steel Company Limited produces 1.3 million tonnes of steel per year.
nigeria: Nigeria is a multinational state inhabited by more than 250 ethnic groups speaking 500 distinct languages, all identifying with a wide variety of cultures.
nigeria: This is followed by "ritual killings" (4%) and "Boko Haram" (3.5%).
nigeria: Following the war, Nigeria enjoyed an oil boom in the 1970s, during which the country joined OPEC and received huge oil revenues.
nigeria: Nigeria backed the African National Congress by taking a committed tough line about the South African government.
nigeria: Nigeria profile from the BBC News
nigeria: Over a decade later, the Afrobeat genre has widely taken over, with artist like Davido, Wizkid and Burna Boy.
nigeria: Under Britain's policy of indirect rule and validation of Islamic legitimist tradition, the Crown did not encourage the operation of Christian missions in the northern, Islamic part of the country.
nigeria: Road bandits often take advantage of this situation for their criminal purposes.
nigeria: Continuing its Africa-centred foreign policy, Nigeria introduced the idea of a single currency for West Africa known as the Eco under the presumption that it would be led by the naira.
nigeria: Nigerian cinema is Africa's largest movie industry in terms of both value and the number of movies produced per year.
nigeria: In 1900, the company's territory came under the direct control of the British government and established the Southern Nigeria Protectorate as a British protectorate and part of the British Empire.
nigeria: In June 1903, the British defeated the remaining northern forces of Attahiru.
nigeria: Official website, Government of Federal Republic of Nigeria
 Wikimedia Atlas of Nigeria
 Geographic data related to Nigeria at OpenStreetMap
Foreign Affairs of Nigeria
Nigeria profile from ECOWAS
News headline links from Al Jazeera.
nigeria: The British force quickly won, sending Attahiru I and thousands of followers on a Mahdist hijra.
nigeria: Both the forest zone and the savannah zone are divided into three parts.
nigeria: Nigeria gained a degree of self-rule in 1954, and full independence from the United Kingdom on 1 October 1960, as the Federation of Nigeria with Abubakar Tafawa Balewa as its Prime Minister, while retaining the British monarch, Elizabeth II, as nominal head of state and Queen of Nigeria.
nigeria: The Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation has been working with the states to upgrade the traditional festivals, which may become important sources of tourism revenue.
nigeria: However, these estimates should be taken with caution because sample data is mostly collected from major urban areas in the south, which are predominantly Christian.
nigeria: North of this is a freshwater swamp, containing different vegetation from the saltwater mangrove swamps, and north of that is a rainforest.
nigeria: Domestic violence is common.
nigeria: Achebe also won the Peace Award of the German Book Trade in 2002.
nigeria: Nigeria became the second African country to have successfully carried out this surgery.
nigeria: Nigerian feasts are colourful and lavish, while aromatic market and roadside snacks cooked on barbecues or fried in oil are plentiful and varied.
nigeria: Lola Shoneyin has won several awards for her book The Secret Lives of Baba Segi's Wives.
nigeria: At the beginning of the 19th century, Usman dan Fodio led a successful jihad against the Hausa Kingdoms, He accused the Hausa of not being true Muslims and subsequently established the Sokoto Caliphate.
nigeria: Europeans traded goods with peoples at the coast; coastal trade with Europeans also marked the beginnings of the Atlantic slave trade.
nigeria: Nigeria has 143,000 troops in the armed forces (army 100,000, navy 25,000, air force 18,000) and another 80,000 personnel for "gendarmerie & paramilitary" in 2020, according to the International Institute for Strategic Studies.
nigeria: Women throughout the country were only politically emancipated in 1979.
nigeria: In May 1967, Governor of the Eastern Region Lt.
nigeria: The poverty rate may be overestimated due to a lack of information on the extremely huge informal sector of the economy.
nigeria: In 2003, the Nigerian Economic and Financial Crimes Commission was created to combat this and other forms of organised financial crime.
nigeria: In 2012, a new bone marrow donor program was launched by the University of Nigeria to help people with leukaemia, lymphoma, or sickle cell disease to find a compatible donor for a life-saving bone marrow transplant, which cures them of their conditions.
nigeria: In the west, the Yoruba people are predominantly Christian with a significant Muslim minority in addition to a few adherents of traditional religions.
nigeria: The savannah zone's three categories are Guinean forest-savanna mosaic, Sudan savannah, and Sahel savannah.
nigeria: The United Nations refugee agency UNHCR counts about 1.8 million internally displaced persons and about 200,000 Nigerian refugees in neighbouring countries.
nigeria: The sultan sent out emirs to establish suzerainty over the previous conquered territories and promote Islamic civilisation; the emirs in turn became increasingly rich and powerful through trade and slavery.
nigeria: In the early 19th century the migrating Fulani Jihadis culminated in the Sokoto Caliphate.
nigeria: Nigeria has been home to several indigenous material cultures, pre-colonial states and kingdoms since the second millennium BC.
nigeria: The three largest ethnic groups are the Hausa, Yoruba, and Igbo together constituting over 60% of the total population.
nigeria: The Nok civilisation thrived between 1500 BC and 200 AD.
nigeria: Nigerians, according to the above survey, fear being robbed (24%) or kidnapped (also 24%), being victims of armed bandits or of petty theft (both 8%), or being harmed in the herdsmen-farmers conflict (also 8%).
nigeria: As of May 2022, however, there are no results on this yet.
nigeria: The port of Calabar on the historical Bight of Biafra (now commonly referred to as the Bight of Bonny) became one of the largest slave-trading posts in West Africa in this era.
nigeria: In some contexts, the states are aggregated into six geopolitical zones: North West, North East, North Central, South West, South East, and South South.
nigeria: Sudan savannah is similar but with shorter grasses and shorter trees.
nigeria: The Niger Delta Nembe Creek oil field was discovered in 1973 and produces from the middle Miocene deltaic sandstone-shale in an anticline structural trap at a depth of 2 to 4 kilometres (7,000 to 13,000 feet).
nigeria: Southern Cameroons opted to join the Republic of Cameroon while Northern Cameroons chose to join Nigeria.
nigeria: Metropoles such as Lagos, Enugu, Kano and Ibadan are much safer than rural areas.
nigeria: In 2016, Nigeria was the leading cement producer south of the Sahara, ahead of South Africa.
nigeria: In spite of the flimsiness of the evidence presented by the government's prosecutors, he was convicted.
nigeria: In the southeast stands the Obudu Plateau.
nigeria: Boydell & Brewer.
nigeria: Suya is usually sold in urban areas especially during night-time.
nigeria: The splinter group ISWAP (Islamic State in West Africa) remains active.
nigeria: Nigeria is also a member of the International Criminal Court and the Commonwealth of Nations.
nigeria: The 2010 film Ijé by Chineze Anyaene, overtook The Figurine to become the highest-grossing Nigerian film; a record it held for four years until it was overtaken in 2014 by Half of a Yellow Sun (2013).
nigeria: Shillington, Kevin (2005).
nigeria: Lawsuits under the American Alien Tort Statute against Royal Dutch Shell and Brian Anderson, the head of Shell's Nigerian operation, settled out of court.
nigeria: Pollution
Waste management poses problems in a megacity like Lagos and other major Nigerian cities, which are linked to economic development, population growth, and the inability of municipal councils to manage the resulting rise in industrial and domestic waste.
nigeria: Most Nigerian literature is written in English, partly because this language is understood by most Nigerians.
nigeria: At the 2019 World Mixed Doubles Curling Championship in Norway, Nigeria won their first international match beating France 8–5.
nigeria: Customary law is derived from indigenous traditional norms and practices, including the dispute resolution meetings of pre-colonial Yoruba land secret societies and the Èkpè and Okónkò of Igboland and Ibibioland.
nigeria: Together, the triumvirate introduced austerity measures to stem inflation, established a Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau, replaced all military governors with new officers, and launched "Operation Deadwood" through which they fired 11,000 officials from the civil service.
nigeria: 68% of Nigerians feel "not safe" in their country.
nigeria: The far south is defined by its tropical rainforest climate, where annual rainfall is 1,500 to 2,000 millimetres (60 to 80 in) per year.
nigeria: Colonel Emeka Ojukwu declared the region independent from the federation as a state called the Republic of Biafra as a result of the continuous and systematically planned attacks against Igbos and those of Eastern extraction, popularly known as the1966 pogroms.
nigeria: Buhari's campaign in 2015 was popular and built around his image as a staunch anti-corruption fighter—he won the election by over two million votes.
nigeria: Women face a large amount of inequality politically in Nigeria, being subjugated to a bias that is sexist and reinforced by socio-cultural, economic and oppressive ways.
nigeria: The victim is talked into sending money or bank account information to the scammer on the premise that a larger amount of money will be transferred to them.
nigeria: Reflections on Governance and Development in Nigeria.
nigeria: The Constitution of Nigeria is the supreme law of the country.
nigeria: In June 2015, Nigeria selected two sites for the planned construction of the nuclear plants.
nigeria: The following year, it chartered the Royal Niger Company under the leadership of Sir George Taubman Goldie.
nigeria: Nigeria's economy is the fourth-largest in Africa, the 52nd-largest in the world by nominal GDP, and 19th-largest by PPP.
nigeria: The Komadugu Yobe river system gives rise to the internationally important Hadejia-Nguru wetlands and Ox-bow lakes around Lake Nguru in the rainy season.
nigeria: Both Roman Catholicism and Protestantism are observed in the Ibibio, Efik, Ijo and Ogoni lands of the south.
nigeria: Lagos-Mombasa Highway
 Algiers-Lagos Highway
 Dakar-Lagos Highway
 Dakar-Ndjamena Highway
Nigeria has the largest road network in West Africa.
nigeria: The Niger catchment area covers about 63% of the country.
nigeria: ISBN 9781003752592.
nigeria: Subsequently, Nigeria's economy is becoming over-reliant on cheap imports to sustain itself, resulting in a clear decline in Nigerian industry under such arrangements.
nigeria: Nigeria lies between latitudes 4° and 14°N, and longitudes 2° and 15°E.
nigeria: In some areas of Nigeria, ethnic groups speak more than one language.
nigeria: As premier of the West, Akintola presided over the most chaotic era in Western Region—one which earned it the nickname "the Wild-Wild West".
nigeria: The lighter components of crude oil (methane to butane, isobutane) create a certain risk of explosion, which often leads to disasters at illegal plants.
nigeria: Between 1990 and 2000, Nigeria lost an average of 409,700 hectares of forest every year equal to an average annual deforestation rate of 2.4%.
nigeria: It is estimated that over a million Nigerians have emigrated to the United States and constitute the Nigerian American populace.
nigeria: Illegal refineries do not have these technical capabilities and "dispose" of the heavy oil where it then accumulates.
nigeria: Nigeria has remained a key player in the international oil industry since the 1970s and maintains membership in OPEC, which it joined in July 1971.
nigeria: OCLC 796383923.
nigeria: Most of the energy comes from traditional fossil fuels, which account for 73% of total primary production.
nigeria: Nigeria also supported several Pan-African and pro-self-government causes in the 1970s, including garnering support for Angola's MPLA, SWAPO in Namibia, and aiding opposition to the minority governments of Portuguese Mozambique, and Rhodesia.
nigeria: This has resulted in a serious trade imbalance, with Nigeria importing ten times more than it exports to China.
nigeria: Tunde King was a prominent name in the genre.
nigeria: In West Africa, the oldest bronzes made using the lost wax process were from Igbo-Ukwu, a city under Nri influence.
nigeria: Consequently, rice imports remained steady at 2 million tonnes annually.
nigeria: Forced marriages are common.
nigeria: Jonathan's tenure saw an economic recovery that made Nigeria the leading economic power in Africa.
nigeria: Nigeria became a formally independent federation on 1 October 1960.
nigeria: In 1995, an estimated 21,000 Nigerian doctors were practising in the United States alone, which is about the same as the number of doctors working in the Nigerian public service.
nigeria: Nigeria's roads and highways handle 90% of all passenger and freight traffic.
nigeria: Mangrove swamps are found along the coast.
nigeria: There are many festivals in Nigeria, some of which date to the period before the arrival of the major religions in this ethnically and culturally diverse society.
nigeria: Other places of interest include the Tafawa Balewa Square, Festac town, The Nike Art Gallery, Freedom Park, and the Cathedral Church of Christ.
nigeria: British missionaries expanded their operations and travelled further inland.
nigeria: Yar'Adua died on 5 May 2010, and Vice President Goodluck Jonathan had been sworn in by the Senate three months earlier as acting president to succeed Yar'Adua.
nigeria: The plant was inaugurated in 2023 with the commencement of full production.
nigeria: Bola Tinubu of the ruling party won the disputed election with 36.61% of the vote, though both runners-up claimed victory and litigation continued in an election tribunal.
nigeria: In the northeast, the decline of the Bornu Empire gave rise to the British-controlled Borno Emirate, which established Abubakar Garbai of Borno as ruler.
nigeria: This is one of the world's largest river deltas and the location of a large area of Central African mangroves.
nigeria: Prominent reggae artiste of the era was Majek Fashek.
nigeria: However, the Yoruba forces of Ibadan delivered a decisive defeat to the invaders at the Battle of Osogbo, halting their jihad and successfully protecting the sovereign integrity of Yoruba territory.
nigeria: Nigeria has more than 250 ethnic groups, with varying languages and customs, creating a country of rich ethnic diversity.
nigeria: The 2010 census of Association of Religion Data Archives has also reported that 48.8% of the total population was Christian, slightly larger than the Muslim population of 43.4%, while 7.5% were members of other religions.
nigeria: Nigeria is divided into thirty-six states and one Federal Capital Territory, which are further sub-divided into 774 local government areas.
nigeria: It covers an area of 923,769 square kilometres (356,669 mi2).
nigeria: Abuja Light Rail controls rail services in Abuja and currently has one operating service, the Blue Line.
nigeria: Resentment among southern politicians precipitated into political chaos in the country.
nigeria: The 1993 presidential election held on 12 June was the first since the military coup of 1983.
nigeria: They won the Africa Cup of Nations in 1980, 1994, and 2013, and have also hosted both the U17 and U20 FIFA World Cup.
nigeria: Malaria had been diagnosed in 88% of the cases and typhoid fever in 32%.
nigeria: The Nigerian Premier League has become one of the biggest and most-watched basketball competitions in Africa.
nigeria: Palgrave Macmillan.
nigeria: History of Africa (2nd ed.).
nigeria: The sites are planned to house two plants each.
nigeria: The use of slave labour was extensive, especially in agriculture.
nigeria: Nigeria has been home to numerous internationally recognised basketball players in the world's top leagues in America, Europe and Asia.
nigeria: For the first time since the return of democracy, no former military ruler ran for president, marking a strengthening of democracy and faith in the multiparty constitution.
nigeria: The rice mill in Imota, near Lagos, is designed to handle the processing at home, improve the balance of trade and the labour market, and save transport and middlemen costs.
nigeria: The military carefully planned the return to civilian rule putting in place measures to ensure that political parties had broader support than witnessed during the first republic.
nigeria: Representative of these improvements is the Second Niger Bridge near Onitsha, which was largely completed in 2022.
nigeria: The 2009 Eyo carnival (a yearly festival originating from Iperu Remo, Ogun State) was a step toward world city status.
nigeria: Lagos has grown from about 300,000 in 1950 to an estimated 13.4 million in 2017.
nigeria: The Sokoto Caliphate relied heavily on slavery, with large-scale plantation slavery, concubinage, and domestic servitude.
nigeria: The Nigerian Armed Forces are the combined military forces of Nigeria.
nigeria: For instance, northern Nigeria did not outlaw slavery until 1936 whilst in other parts of Nigeria, slavery was abolished soon after colonialism.
nigeria: They largely avoided engaging in trade, agriculture, state-building, and other activities common among other West African peoples.
nigeria: Another prominent singer of the era is William Onyeabor, who is known for his fusion of Funk Music and Disco.
nigeria: Before 1999, economic development was hindered by years of military rule, corruption, and mismanagement.
nigeria: For 2022, US$2.26 billion has been budgeted for the Nigerian armed forces, which is just over a third of Belgium's defence budget (US$5.99 billion).
nigeria: It is one of the Next Eleven economies, and also a member, along with Mexico, Indonesia, and Turkey, of the MINT group.
nigeria: This name was coined on 8 January 1897, by the British journalist Flora Shaw.
nigeria: By 2016, this record was held by The Wedding Party by Kemi Adetiba.
nigeria: All of this activity created rumours that the Balewa government would be forced to crack down on lawlessness in the West using military might.
nigeria: That year, 12.2%, the equivalent of 11,089,000 hectares, had been forested in the country.
nigeria: There has been an increase in total trade of over 10.3 billion dollars between the two nations from 2000 to 2016.
nigeria: By October 2015, Boko Haram had been driven out of all the cities it controlled and almost all the counties in northeastern Nigeria.
nigeria: In any case, the pipelines in the Niger Delta are not very effectively "guarded" – the pollution of the Niger Delta with stolen crude oil and illegally produced heavy fuel oil continued unhindered after 2016.
nigeria: The president's power is limited by a Senate and a House of Representatives, which are combined in a bicameral body called the National Assembly.
nigeria: Babangida's regime has been considered the most corrupt and responsible for creating a culture of corruption in Nigeria.
nigeria: Nigeria is known not only for its fashionable textiles and garments, but also for its fashion designers who have increasingly gained international recognition.
nigeria: As of 2014, the industry was worth ₦853.9 billion (US$5.1 billion), making it the third most valuable film industry in the world behind the United States and India.
nigeria: Joshua's Emmanuel TV, originating from Nigeria, is one of the most viewed television stations across Africa.
nigeria: The operational head of the AFN is the Chief of the Defence Staff, who is subordinate to the Nigerian Defence Minister.
nigeria: Nigeria is an economic leader in Africa in several industries, including energy, financial markets, pharmaceuticals, and entertainment.
nigeria: The Hausa Kingdoms inhabited the north, with the Edo Kingdom of Benin in the south, Igbo Kingdom of Nri in the southeast and in the southwest, the Yoruba Empire of Oyo.
nigeria: Only 1% of Nigerians surveyed reported having electricity 24 hours a day.
nigeria: In 2021, about 23.4% of Nigeria's GDP is contributed by agriculture, forestry and fishing combined.
nigeria: Most roads were built in the 1980s and early 1990s.
nigeria: Aircraft movements increased by more than 46% from 2020 to 2021.
nigeria: Especially during the rainy season, the use of secondary roads is sometimes almost impossible due to potholes.
nigeria: My Nigeria: Five Decades of Independence (Palgrave Macmillan, 2010)
Metz, Helen Chapin, ed.
nigeria: On 29 May 2024, Tinubu signed a law reinstating Nigeria, We Hail Thee, the national anthem from 1960 to 1978, replacing Arise, O Compatriots.
nigeria: Individuals in many such Diasporic communities have joined the "Egbe Omo Yoruba" society, a national association of Yoruba descendants in North America.
nigeria: As of 2021, the Eco currency has been delayed to 2027.
nigeria: The predominantly Kanuri led Boko Haram and the bandit conflict have been responsible for numerous serious attacks with thousands of casualties since mid-2010.
nigeria: On 29 May 1999, Abubakar handed over power to the winner of the 1999 presidential election, former military ruler General Olusegun Obasanjo, as President of Nigeria.
nigeria: At independence, the cultural and political differences were sharp among Nigeria's dominant ethnic groups: the Hausa in the north, Igbo in the east, and Yoruba in the west.
nigeria: Nigeria has a market of 720,000 cars per year, but less than 20% of these are produced domestically.
nigeria: Lagos has sandy beaches by the Atlantic Ocean, including Elegushi Beach and Alpha Beach.
nigeria: The pidgin English or Nigerian English is widely spoken within the Niger Delta Region.
nigeria: According to the International Monetary Fund, 32% of Nigeria's population lives in extreme poverty (as of 2017), living on less than US$2.15 a day.
nigeria: Nigeria is a state party of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women.
nigeria: An Economic History of Nigeria 1860–1960 (Methuen & Co Ltd, 1973)
Falola, Toyin; Heaton, Matthew M.
nigeria: With a population of more than 242 million, it is the most populous country in Africa, and the world's sixth-most populous country.
nigeria: By convention, presidential candidates take a running mate (candidate for the vice presidency) who is both ethnically and religiously the opposite of themselves.
nigeria: Nigeria has a total of 159 oil fields and 1,481 wells in operation according to the Department of Petroleum Resources.
nigeria: Almost half of Nigerians, or 48%, report that they or a household member has fallen ill in the last three months.
nigeria: Obasanjo had been in prison under the dictatorship of Abacha.
nigeria: ISBN 9780333599570.
nigeria: To be elected in the first round, a candidate must receive a majority of the votes and more than 25% of the votes in at least 24 of the 36 states.
nigeria: Agriculture has failed to keep pace with Nigeria's rapid population growth, and Nigeria now relies upon food imports to sustain itself.
nigeria: Nri was ruled by the Eze Nri, and the city of Nri is considered to be the foundation of Igbo culture.
nigeria: This remnant became known as "Sokoto Sultanate Council".
nigeria: It produced life-sized terracotta figures that are some of the earliest known sculptures in Africa and independently invented iron smelting by about 550 BC and possibly a few centuries earlier.
nigeria: With the majority of Nigeria's populace in rural areas, the major languages of communication in the country remain indigenous languages.
nigeria: The 1970s was the era of Fela Kuti, the pioneer of Afrobeat genre – fused from Highlife, Jazz and Yoruba Music.
nigeria: The education system consists of six years of primary school, three years of junior secondary school, three years of senior secondary school, and four, five or six years of university education leading to a bachelor's degree.
nigeria: Nigeria's human rights record remains poor.
nigeria: Four major candidates, amongst other less popular candidates, vied for the presidency in the 2023 presidential election.
nigeria: But on 21 December 2019, Ivorian President Alassane Ouattara, Emmanuel Macron, and multiple other UEMOA states announced that they would merely rename the CFA franc instead of replacing the currency as originally intended.
nigeria: The founding government was a coalition of conservative parties: the Northern People's Congress led by Sir Ahmadu Bello, a party dominated by Muslim northerners, and the Igbo and Christian-dominated National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons led by Nnamdi Azikiwe.
nigeria: Inhabitants of the southern region sustained more interaction, economic and cultural, with the British and other Europeans owing to the coastal economy.
nigeria: Nigeria is a federal republic modelled after the United States, with 36 states and the capital Abuja as an independent unit.
nigeria: Before Flora Shaw suggested the name Nigeria, other proposed names included Royal Niger Company Territories, Central Sudan, Niger Empire, Niger Sudan, and Hausa Territories.
nigeria: The flat plains of north-eastern Nigeria are geographically part of the Chad Basin, where the course of the El Beid River forms the border with Cameroon, from the Mandara Mountains to Lake Chad.
nigeria: Power generators are owned by 21% of Nigerians, while 14% use solar energy.
nigeria: The Government blamed ISWAP for the murder of over 50 parishioners, but locals suspect Fulani herdsmen's involvement.
nigeria: Nigeria's most expansive topographical region is that of the valleys of the Niger and Benue river valleys (which merge and form a Y-shape).
nigeria: Colonel Buka Suka Dimka launched a February 1976 coup attempt, during which General Murtala Muhammed was assassinated.
nigeria: The international community, which had observed the Nigerian elections to promote a free and fair process, condemned these elections as seriously flawed.
nigeria: The Nigerian president is elected in a modified two-round system.
nigeria: Safety and environmental aspects are usually ignored.
nigeria: Ben Okri won the prestigious Booker Prize in 1991; Chinua Achebe did the same in 2007.
nigeria: Child marriage remains common in Northern Nigeria; 39% of girls are married before age 15, although the Marriage Rights Act banning marriage of girls under 18 was introduced on a federal level in 2008.
nigeria: There are four distinct legal systems in Nigeria, which include English law, common law, customary law, and Sharia law:
nigeria: After petroleum, the largest source of foreign exchange earnings for Nigeria are remittances sent home by Nigerians living abroad.
nigeria: Nigeria is a founding member of the African Union and a member of many international organisations, including the United Nations, the Commonwealth of Nations, NAM, the Economic Community of West African States, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and OPEC.
nigeria: Nearly 10.5 million Nigerian children aged 5–14 years are not in school.
nigeria: Senate President Nwafor Orizu handed over government control to the Army, under the command of another Igbo officer, Major General Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi.
nigeria: This contrasts with the sixteen largest fields which produced 37.9% of Nigeria's petroleum at that time.
nigeria: In the 1950s and 1960s, Highlife music became a popular staple in the country with regional genres such as the Igbo Highlife.
nigeria: His government faced ongoing domestic challenges, including widespread kidnapping in Nigeria.
nigeria: Nigeria spent just under 0.4 per cent of its economic output, or US$1.6 billion, on its armed forces in 2017.
nigeria: According to an estimate from 2015, there are 20 cities in Nigeria with more than 500,000 inhabitants, including ten cities with a population of one million.
nigeria: The south of the country in particular is characterised by very strong urbanisation and a relatively large number of cities.
nigeria: In 1995, Abacha's regime hanged environmentalist Ken Saro-Wiwa on trumped-up charges in the deaths of four Ogoni elders, which caused Nigerian's suspension from the Commonwealth.
nigeria: Despite huge deposits of these natural resources, the mining industry in Nigeria is still in its infancy.
nigeria: Christian missions established Western educational institutions in the protectorates.
nigeria: Millions of Nigerians have emigrated during times of economic hardship, primarily to Europe, North America and Australia.
nigeria: The Igbos (predominant in the east) and the Ibibio (south) are 98% Christian, with 2% practising traditional religions.
nigeria: Nigerian film studios are based in Lagos, Kano, and Enugu, and form a major portion of the local economy of these cities.
nigeria: 1500 BC, marks one of the earliest known civilisations in the region.
nigeria: While estimates vary, it is thought that upwards of 400 children died of acute lead poisoning.
nigeria: On 13 March 1903, at the grand market square of Sokoto, the last vizier of the caliphate officially conceded to British rule.
nigeria: The Boko Haram-affected states agreed in February 2015 to establish an 8,700-strong Multinational Joint Task Force to jointly fight Boko Haram.
nigeria: The Red Line and The Blue Line.
nigeria: State governors, like the president, are elected for four years and may serve a maximum of two terms.
nigeria: Discrimination based on sex is a significant human rights issue.
nigeria: The Chad Basin is fed from the north-eastern quarter of Nigeria.
nigeria: Nigeria provides free, government-supported education, but attendance is not compulsory at any level, and certain groups, such as nomads and the handicapped, are under-served.
nigeria: Nigeria is also involved in other sports such as basketball, cricket and track and field.
nigeria: Historical Dictionary of Nigeria (Rowman & Littlefield, 2018) online (Archived 1 April 2022 at the Wayback Machine)
Hill, Sam (15 January 2020).
nigeria: Throughout the years, highlife music retained its popularity in the country.
nigeria: By the 1890s, the largest slave population, about two million, was concentrated in the territories of the Sokoto Caliphate.
nigeria: With incarceration of Awolowo, Samuel Akintola took over as the premier of Western Region.
nigeria: The Nigerian telecommunications market is one of the fastest-growing in the world, with major emerging market operators (like MTN, 9mobile, Airtel and Globacom) basing their largest and most profitable centres in the country.
nigeria: It contributed about 1.4% to Nigeria's economy; this was attributed to the increase in the number of quality films produced and more formal distribution methods.
nigeria: The regime came to an end in 1998 when the dictator died in the villa.
nigeria: The Kingdom of Nri of the Igbo people consolidated in the 10th century and continued until it lost its sovereignty to the British in 1911.
nigeria: Some of the forest zone's most southerly portion, especially around the Niger River and Cross River deltas, is mangrove swamp.
nigeria: Total freight volumes were 191 tonnes in 2020 but increased to 391 tonnes in 2021.
nigeria: Lagos is currently taking steps to become a global city.
nigeria: The main tributary of the Niger is the Benue, whose tributaries extend beyond Cameroon into Cameroon into Chad and the Sharie catchment area.
nigeria: The caliphate as a whole became one of the largest slave societies in 19th-century Africa.
nigeria: Most accepted.
nigeria: Obafemi Awolowo, Premier of Western Region, was accused of attempting to overthrow the government.
nigeria: Over two-thirds of respondents, or 67%, were willing to pay more for uninterrupted electricity supply.
nigeria: Ogun is considered to be Nigeria's current industrial hub, as most factories are located in Ogun and more companies are moving there, followed by Lagos.
nigeria: In 2018, the Nigerian Curling Federation was established to introduce a new sport to the country in order to make the game part of the curriculum at the elementary, high school, and university levels.
nigeria: There is no law prescribing this, yet all presidential candidates since the existence of the Fourth Republic until 2023 adhered to this rule.
nigeria: 68% have electricity 1 to 9 hours a day, according to the NIO.
nigeria: Several hundred million dollars in accounts traced to Abacha were discovered in 1999.
nigeria: The film was a critical and commercial success in Nigeria, and it was also screened in international film festivals.
nigeria: The modern state originated with British colonialization in the 19th century, taking its present territorial shape with the merging of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate and the Northern Nigeria Protectorate in 1914.
nigeria: On 1 October 1979, Shehu Shagari was sworn in as the first President and Commander-in-Chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
nigeria: In 1864, Samuel Ajayi Crowther became the first African bishop of the Anglican Church.
nigeria: The birth rate is 35.2-births/1,000 population and the death rate is 9.6 deaths/1,000 population as of 2017, while the total fertility rate is 5.07 children born/woman.
nigeria: Nigeria has a few electronic manufacturers like Zinox, the first branded Nigerian computer, and manufacturers of electronic gadgets such as tablet PCs.
nigeria: Obasanjo's inauguration heralded the beginning of the Fourth Nigerian Republic, ending a 39-year period of short-lived democracies, civil war and military dictatorship.
nigeria: Nigeria made history by qualifying the first bobsled team for the Winter Olympics from Africa when their women's two-person team qualified for the bobsled competition at the XXIII Olympic Winter Games.
nigeria: New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
nigeria: Lagos has become an important location for African and black cultural identity.
nigeria: The coup in July 1975, led by Generals Shehu Musa Yar'Adua and Joseph Garba, ousted Gowon, who fled to Britain.
nigeria: Casual attire is commonly worn but formal and traditional styles are also worn depending on the occasion.
nigeria: The Council on Foreign Relations' Nigeria Security Tracker counted 1,086 deaths from Boko Haram attacks and 290 deaths from police violence in the first 12 months of its establishment in May 2011.
nigeria: Nigeria is considered to be one of the most homophobic countries in the world.
nigeria: In contrast, the kingdoms associated with the Trans-Saharan slave trade were linked to the Hausa states, as well as the Kanuri-led Kanem-Bornu Empire.
nigeria: Encyclopedia of African History.
nigeria: Only India's Bollywood is larger.
nigeria: Estimates of the number of dead in the former Eastern Region during the 30-month civil war range from one to three million.
nigeria: However, the structure of the Chinese–Nigerian trade relationship has become a major political issue for the Nigerian state.
nigeria: The British set up administrative and legal structures and incorporated traditional monarchs as a form of indirect rule.
nigeria: In late 2016, the Nigerian federal government resorted to the gambit of offering the militant groups a 4.5 billion naira (US$144 million) contract to guard oil infrastructure.
nigeria: The Kano Chronicle highlights an ancient history dating to around 999 AD of the Hausa city state of Kano, with other major Hausa cities (or Hausa Bakwai) of Daura, Biram, Katsina, Kingdom of Zazzau, Rano, and Gobir all having recorded histories dating back to the 10th century.
nigeria: Due to Nigeria's location in the centre of West Africa, transport plays a major role in the national service sector.
nigeria: Fela later evolved into social activism and black consciousness.
nigeria: Inadequate qualified teachers, lack of sustained political will, and the dominance of English have prevented the country from becoming fully bilingual.
nigeria: Lugard abolished the caliphate but retained the title sultan as a symbolic position in the newly organised Northern Nigeria Protectorate.
nigeria: Nigeria's women's and men's national teams in beach volleyball competed at the 2018–2020 CAVB Beach Volleyball Continental Cup.
nigeria: The President of Nigeria functions as the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, exercising his constitutional authority through the Ministry of Defence, which is responsible for the management of the military and its personnel.
nigeria: A changing legal imperative (the outlawing of the Atlantic slave trade in 1807) and economic imperative (a desire for political and social stability) led most European powers to support the widespread cultivation of agricultural products, such as the palm, for use in European industry.
nigeria: Upon gaining independence in 1960, Nigeria made African unity the centrepiece of its foreign policy.
nigeria: Britain's West Africa Squadron sought to intercept the smugglers at sea.
nigeria: Some have suggested the technology moved west from the Nile Valley.
nigeria: Above all, however, Jonathan's tenure saw the emergence of a wave of terror by the Boko Haram insurgency, including the Gwoza massacre and Chibok schoolgirls kidnapping in 2014.
nigeria: Coastal plains are found in both the southwest and the southeast.
nigeria: As oil revenues fuelled the rise of federal subsidies to states, the federal government became the centre of political struggle and the threshold of power in the country.
nigeria: Nigeria is the 15th largest producer of petroleum in the world, the 6th largest exporter, and has the 9th largest proven reserves.
nigeria: Many French speakers from surrounding countries have influenced the English spoken in the border regions of Nigeria and some Nigerian citizens have become fluent enough in French to work in the surrounding countries.
nigeria: It is a habitat for the drill primate, which is found in the wild only in this area and across the border in Cameroon.
nigeria: The city of Aba in the south-eastern part of the country is well known for handicrafts and shoes, known as "Aba made".
nigeria: It conquered parts of the old Oyo Empire (modern-day Kwara), and attempted to penetrate towards deeper into the heart of Yoruba land.
nigeria: Immigrants also include those from other West African or East African nations.
nigeria: They explored various social themes and trends in their native singing style.
nigeria: The country has a total of 138 universities, with 40 federally owned, 39 state-owned, and 59 privately owned.
nigeria: Petrol was Nigeria's main import commodity until 2021, accounting for 24% of import volume.
nigeria: The government has majority control of university education.
nigeria: The largest city in Nigeria by population is Lagos, one of the largest metropolitan areas in the world and the second largest in Africa.
nigeria: Under the Shari'a penal code that applies to Muslims in twelve northern states, offences such as alcohol consumption, homosexuality, infidelity and theft carry harsh sentences, including amputation, lashing, stoning and long prison terms.
nigeria: In additional to the environmental damage it has caused conflict in the Delta region.
nigeria: Falola, Toyin; and Adam Paddock.
nigeria: The Nigerian police are notorious for vigilante justice.
nigeria: In 2011, Citigroup projected that Nigeria would have the highest average GDP growth in the world between 2010 and 2050.
nigeria: As the British approached the city of Sokoto, Sultan Muhammadu Attahiru I organised a quick defence of the city and fought the advancing British-led forces.
nigeria: Some of the largest of these, notably Yoruba and Igbo, have derived standardised languages from several different dialects and are widely spoken by those ethnic groups.
nigeria: In the 1980s, King Sunny Ade achieved success with Juju Music.
nigeria: Despite the official declaration of French as the second official language in 1996 by  General Sani Abacha, the policy has remained largely theoretical.
nigeria: At the same time a top-level security conference in Lagos was taking place which was attended by most of the country's senior army officiers.
nigeria: Modernization and the Crisis of Development in Africa: The Nigerian Experience (Routledge, 2017)
Ekundare, Olufemi R.
nigeria: The Yoruba had developed one of the earliest city-states in Africa by the 8th century known as Ile Ife, which would become the heart of the later Ife Empire while Oyo and other Yoruba states became more prominent in the 12th and 14th centuries, respectively.
nigeria: In June 2019, Nigeria EduSat-1 was deployed from the International Space Station.
nigeria: Two-thirds of Nigerians, or 66%, pay up to 10,000 Naira (US$13) a month for electricity, which is almost 3% of the average income in Nigeria.
nigeria: In 1903, the British victory in the Battle of Kano gave them a logistical edge in pacifying the heartland of the Sokoto Caliphate and parts of the former Bornu Empire.
nigeria: With this Africa-centred stance, Nigeria readily sent troops to the Congo at the behest of the United Nations shortly after independence (and has maintained membership since that time).
nigeria: Life expectancy in Nigeria is 54.7 years on average, and 71% and 39% of the population have access to improved water sources and improved sanitation, respectively.
nigeria: In late November 2006, it organised an Africa-South America Summit in Abuja to promote what some attendees termed "South-South" linkages on a variety of fronts.
nigeria: He complained about slave raids on the local Muslim population by Judham Arabs, who he described as polytheists who deviated from true religion.
nigeria: This contrasts with other cities that are also Islamic, such as Maiduguri and Kaduna, which have worrying statistics on homicides.
nigeria: Nigeria is a federal republic comprising 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, where its capital, Abuja, is located.
nigeria: Nigeria borders Niger in the north, Chad in the northeast, Cameroon in the east, and Benin in the west.
nigeria: As of 2019, the infant mortality is 74.2 deaths per 1,000 live births.
nigeria: Lugard used rivalries between many of the emirs in the southern reach of the caliphate and the central Sokoto administration to prevent any defence as he worked towards the capital.
nigeria: A notable exponent of the genre were the genre's first Nigerian boy band Oriental Brothers International, Bobby Benson, Osita Osadebe, Victor Olaiya, Rex Lawson, Dr Sir Warrior and Oliver De Coque.
nigeria: Until now, Nigeria exported unhusked rice but had to import husked rice, the country's staple food.
nigeria: Lagos is regarded as one of the largest technology hubs in Africa with its thriving tech ecosystem.
nigeria: Nigeria's population increased by 57 million from 1990 to 2008, a 60% growth rate in less than two decades.
nigeria: In April 1994, the Super Eagles ranked fifth in the FIFA World Rankings, the highest ranking achieved by an African team.
nigeria: Nigeria founded regional cooperative efforts in West Africa, functioning as the standard-bearer for the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and ECOMOG (especially during the Liberia and Sierra Leone civil wars).
nigeria: Climate change
Deforestation
In 2005, Nigeria had the highest rate of deforestation in the world, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
nigeria: In central Nigeria, conflicts between Muslim Fulani herders and indigenous Christian farmers flared up again, especially in Kaduna, Plateau, Taraba and Benue states.
nigeria: Using various measures including but not limited to illegal arrest, taking down of websites, passport seizures, and restricted access to bank accounts, the Nigerian government is punishing citizens for expressing themselves on the internet and working to stifle internet freedom.
nigeria: The Jonathan administration also saw an increase in unparalleled corruption, with as many as 20 billion US dollars said to have been lost to the Nigerian state through the national oil company.
nigeria: It spends US$6.7 billion yearly for food imports, four times more than revenues from food export.
nigeria: In April 2015, Nigeria began talks with Russia's state-owned Rosatom to collaborate on the design, construction and operation of four nuclear power plants by 2035, the first of which will be in operation by 2025.
nigeria: More recent research suggests that iron metallurgy was developed independently in Africa.
nigeria: In the north, the incessant fighting amongst the Hausa city-states and the decline of the Bornu Empire allowed the Fulani people to gain headway into the region.
nigeria: The areas surrounding Calabar, Cross River State, also in this forest, are believed to contain the world's largest diversity of butterflies.
nigeria: It contributes N2.4trn ($6.4bn) to GDP in 2020.
nigeria: The area of southern Nigeria between the Niger and the Cross Rivers has lost most of its forest because of development and harvesting by increased population and has been replaced by grassland.
nigeria: The Trouble with Nigeria (Fourth Dimension, 1983)
Dibua, Jeremiah I.
nigeria: However, steel plants in Katsina, Jos and Osogbo no longer appear to be active.
nigeria: It covers about 200,000 km, of which 60,000 km are asphalted.
nigeria: This declaration precipitated the Nigerian Civil Warwhich began as the official Nigerian government side attacked Biafra on 6 July 1967, at Garkem.
nigeria: Observers generally praised the election as being fair.
nigeria: Nigeria retains membership in the Non-Aligned Movement.
nigeria: Lagos has a variety of hotels ranging from three-star to five-star hotels, with a mixture of local hotels such as Eko Hotels and Suites, Federal Palace Hotel and franchises of multinational chains such as Intercontinental Hotel, Sheraton, and Four Points by Sheraton.
nigeria: Usually, the captives were taken back to the conquerors' territory as forced labour; they were sometimes gradually acculturated and absorbed into the conquerors' society.
nigeria: Dimka lacked widespread support among the military, and his coup failed, forcing him to flee.
nigeria: British General Lord Frederick Lugard was tasked by the Colonial Office to implement the agenda.
nigeria: However, the very next day, Akintola, premier of the West met with his ally Ahmadu Bello, the Sardauna of Sokoto, premier of the North and party boss of NPC party to which Balewa belonged.
nigeria: "Black China: Africa's First Superpower Is Coming Sooner Than You Think".
nigeria: The most productive region of the nation is the coastal Niger Delta Basin in the Niger Delta or "south-south" region which encompasses 78 of the 159 oil fields.
nigeria: It consists of three uniformed service branches: the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Navy, and Nigerian Air Force.
nigeria: Smith, Elder & Co.
nigeria: In August 1993, Babangida finally kept his promise to relinquish power to a civilian government but not before appointing Ernest Shonekan head of an interim national government.
nigeria: The executive power is exercised by the President.
nigeria: In recent decades its surface area has been reduced considerably, which may also be due to humans taking water from the inlets to irrigate agricultural land.
nigeria: The neighbouring Republic of Niger takes its name from the same river.
nigeria: Other rivers of the northeast include the Ngadda and the Yedseram, both of which flow through the Sambisa swamps, thus forming a river system.
nigeria: With a force of more than 223,000 active personnel, the Nigerian military is one of the largest uniformed combat services in Africa.
nigeria: Neither the Nigerian government nor Rosatom would disclose the specific locations of the sites, but it is believed that the nuclear plants will be sited in Akwa Ibom State and Kogi State.
nigeria: Conflict over land and resources is increasing due to the ongoing desertification in northern Nigeria, population growth and the generally tense economic situation.
nigeria: The president is elected by popular vote to a maximum of two four-year terms.
nigeria: Some of the solutions have been disastrous to the environment, resulting in untreated waste being dumped in places where it can pollute waterways and groundwater.
nigeria: The rest of the road network is a state matter and therefore in very different shape, depending on the state.
nigeria: However, as late as Thursday, 13 January 1966, Balewa had announced that the federal government was not going to intervene in the West.
nigeria: This followed a period of conflict between the AG regional government and the central government.
nigeria: Nigeria's energy consumption is much more than its generation capacity.
nigeria: The balance between north and south was also expressed in Nigeria's political life.
nigeria: Nigeria is a Muslim-majority country with a sizeable Christian minority, as well as a tiny minority of adherents of traditional African religions and other religions.
nigeria: Nigerian cuisine, like West African cuisine in general, is known for its richness and variety.
nigeria: This has led to piracy and conflict for control in the region and has led to disruptions in production preventing the country from meeting its OPEC quota and exporting petroleum at full capability.
nigeria: Only 61% of 6–11 year-olds regularly attend primary school.
nigeria: Buhari was elected in the 2019 presidential election, he died two years after leaving office.
nigeria: The country's U21 national teams qualified for the 2019 FIVB Beach Volleyball U21 World Championships.
nigeria: At the turn of the century, famous 2000s acts like P-Square, 2face, and Dbanj were credited to have made tremendous impact in the evolution of Afrobeats and its popularisation on the international stage.
nigeria: In December 2021, the Anambra International Cargo Airport started its operation.
nigeria: The results, though not officially declared by the National Electoral Commission, showed the duo of Moshood Abiola and Baba Gana Kingibe of the Social Democratic Party defeated Bashir Tofa and Sylvester Ugoh of the National Republican Convention by over 2.3 million votes.
nigeria: Nigeria's constitution ensures de jure freedom of religion, and it is home to some of the world's largest Muslim and Christian populations.
nigeria: The word is likely an alteration of the Tuareg name egerew n-igerewen ("river of rivers") used by inhabitants along the middle reaches of the river around Timbuktu before 19th-century European colonialism.
nigeria: One exception to the African focus was Nigeria's close relationship with Israel throughout the 1960s.
nigeria: The official language is English, chosen to facilitate linguistic unity at the national level.
nigeria: For symptoms of malaria, 41% of Nigerians turn to a hospital, 22% to a chemist's shop, 21% to a pharmacy and 11% seek cure through herbs.
nigeria: Between 1990 and 2005, in total Nigeria lost 35.7% of its forest cover or around 6,145,000 hectares.
nigeria: Nigeria's foreign policy was put to the test in the 1970s after the country emerged united from its civil war.
nigeria: The official language of Nigeria, English, was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country, owing to the influence of British colonisation which ended in 1960.
nigeria: Britain annexed Lagos as a crown colony in August 1861 with the Lagos Treaty of Cession.
nigeria: Education in Nigeria is overseen by the Ministry of Education.
nigeria: 50,000), white Zimbabwean, Japanese, Greek, Syrian and Lebanese immigrants.
nigeria: Cocoa is the principal agricultural export, and one of the country's most significant non-petroleum products.
nigeria: Sharia in Nigeria (also known as Islamic Law) used to be used only in Northern Nigeria, where Islam is the predominant religion.
nigeria: Nigeria: a country study (U.S.
nigeria: In August 2019, Nigeria closed its border with Benin and other neighbouring countries to stop rice smuggling into the country as part of efforts to boost local production.
nigeria: The supply of natural gas to Europe, threatened by the Russo-Ukrainian war, pushed projects to transport Nigerian natural gas via pipelines to Morocco or Algeria.
nigeria: Archived from the original on 15 January 2020.
nigeria: Everything in between the far south and the far north is savannah (insignificant tree cover, with grasses and flowers located between trees).
nigeria: At least half a million suffer from vaginal fistula, largely as a result of lack of medical care.
nigeria: The fight against Boko Haram, other sectarians, and criminals, has been accompanied by increasing police attacks.
nigeria: The Nigerian government promoted the use of inorganic fertilisers in the 1970s.
nigeria: The slave trade continued after the ban, as illegal smugglers purchased slaves along the coast from native slavers.
nigeria: Many different spices, herbs, and flavourings are used in conjunction with palm oil or groundnut oil to create deeply flavoured sauces and soups often made very hot with chilli peppers.
nigeria: Tuberculosis (TB) is a significant public health issue in Nigeria, ranking among the top countries with high TB burdens globally.
nigeria: The majority of those taken to these ports were captured in raids and wars.
nigeria: Administratively, Nigeria remained divided into the Northern and Southern Protectorates and Lagos Colony.
nigeria: The EFCC is quite active.
nigeria: Iliffe, John (2011).
nigeria: Maternal mortality was at 814 per 100,000 live births in 2015.
nigeria: In the 12 months after October 2021, 2,193 people died from police violence and 498 from Boko Haram and ISWAP, according to the NST.
nigeria: 68% of the Nigerian population is literate, and the rate for men (75.7%) is higher than that for women (60.6%).
nigeria: According to a survey by the GSM Association, 92% of adult Nigerian men and 88% of women owned a mobile phone.
nigeria: The area near the border with Cameroon close to the coast is rich rainforest and part of the Cross-Sanaga-Bioko coastal forests ecoregion, an important centre for biodiversity.
nigeria: Nigeria is divided roughly in half between Muslims, who live mostly in the north part of the country, and Christians, who live mostly in the south; indigenous religions, such as those native to the Igbo and Yoruba ethnicities, are in the minority.
nigeria: For this triumvirate, they convinced General Murtala Muhammed to become military head of state, with General Olusegun Obasanjo as his second-in-command, and General Theophilus Danjuma as the third.
nigeria: In 2016, Boko Haram split and in 2022, 40,000 fighters surrendered.
nigeria: According to a 2018 estimate in The World Factbook by the CIA, the population is estimated to be 53.5% Muslim, 45.9% Christian (10.6% Catholic and 35.3% Protestant and other Christian), and 0.6% as other.
nigeria: Several kingdoms that directly or indirectly participated in the Atlantic slave trade were associated with the  Benin Empire in the south, Oyo Empire in the southwest, and the Aro Confederacy in the southeast.
nigeria: In 2022, Nigeria suffered 125 deaths from explosions at local, illegal refineries.
nigeria: The earliest known form of popular music in Nigeria was the palm-wine music which dominated the music landscape in the 1920s.
nigeria: Nigeria's economy is the fourth largest in Africa, the 31st-largest in the world by nominal GDP, and 30th-largest by PPP.
nigeria: Its borders span 4,047 kilometres (2,515 mi), and it shares borders with Benin (773 km or 480 mi), Niger (1,497 km or 930 mi), Chad (87 km or 54 mi), and Cameroon (including the separatist Ambazonia) 1,690 km or 1,050 mi.
nigeria: Tension rose between north and south; Igbos in northern cities suffered persecution and many fled to the Eastern Region.
nigeria: The heavy contamination of the air, ground and water with toxic pollutants is often used as an example of ecocide.
nigeria: Environment and Economics in Nigeria (2012)
Falola, Toyin, Ann Genova, and Matthew M.
nigeria: A History of Nigeria.
nigeria: Poor maintenance and inferior materials have worsened the condition of the roads.
nigeria: It was temporarily expelled from the latter in 1995 when ruled by the Abacha regime.
nigeria: In addition, Nigeria has numerous coastal rivers.
nigeria: Since then, according to the Council on Foreign Relations' Nigeria Security Tracker, over 41,600 lives have been lost to this conflict (as of October 2022).
nigeria: In earlier years, Nigeria qualified for the 2012 Summer Olympics as it beat heavily favoured world elite teams such as Greece and Lithuania.
nigeria: Since 2000, Chinese–Nigerian trade relations have risen exponentially.
nigeria: Natural gas is seen as having the potential to unlock an economic miracle on the Niger River.
nigeria: The Nigerian aviation industry generated 198.62 billion naira (€400 million) in 2019, representing a contribution of 0.14% to GDP.
nigeria: The Nigerian health care system is continuously faced with a shortage of doctors known as "brain drain", because of emigration by skilled Nigerian doctors to North America and Europe.
nigeria: Although the elections that brought Obasanjo to power and allowed him to run for a second term in the 2003 presidential elections were condemned as unfree and unfair, Nigeria made significant progress in democratisation under Obasanjo.
nigeria: Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos,
Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja,
Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport in Kano,
Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu and
Port Harcourt International Airport in Port Harcourt.
nigeria: The middle belt of Nigeria contains the largest number of minority ethnic groups in Nigeria, who were found to be majority Christians and members of traditional religions, with a significant Muslim minority.
nigeria: These players include Basketball Hall of Famer Hakeem Olajuwon, and later players in the NBA.
nigeria: (University of Michigan Press, 2005) p.
nigeria: Jonathan won the 2011 presidential election; the polls went smoothly and with relatively little violence or electoral fraud.
nigeria: The Bauchi Plateau forms the watershed between the Niger/Benue and Komadugu Yobe river systems.
nigeria: Islam dominates northwestern Nigeria and northeastern Nigeria (Kanuri, Fulani and other groups).
nigeria: By the time of its break-up in 1903 into various European colonies, the Sokoto Caliphate was one of the largest pre-colonial African states.
nigeria: He urged all Nigerians to join either of the parties, which Chief Bola Ige referred to as "two leper hands".
nigeria: In 1989, Babangida started making plans for the transition to the Third Nigerian Republic.
nigeria: To the southwest of the Niger is a "rugged" highland.
nigeria: There were also uncertainties, such as in the first republic, that political leaders may be unable to govern properly.
nigeria: Nigeria is often referred to as the Giant of Africa by its citizens due to its large population and economy, and is considered to be an emerging market by the World Bank.
nigeria: The coup plotters succeeded in assassinating Sir Ahmadu Bello and Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa alongside prominent leaders of the Northern Region and Premier Samuel Akintola of the Western Region, but the plotters struggled to form a central government.
nigeria: Since independence, Nigeria has tried to develop a domestic nuclear industry for energy.
nigeria: Although Nigerian films have been produced since the 1960s, the country's film industry has been aided by the rise of affordable digital filming and editing technologies.
nigeria: Nigeria each year loses to gas flaring an estimate of US$2.5 billion, and over 120,000 barrels of oil per day to crude theft in the Niger Delta, its main oil-producing region.
nigeria: Euromonitor estimates the Sub-Saharan fashion market to be worth $31 billion, with Nigeria accounting for 15% of these $31 billion.
nigeria: The contract was renewed in August 2022, but led to fierce disputes among the above-mentioned groups over the distribution of the funds.
nigeria: Nigeria's largest city is Lagos.
nigeria: The main rivers are the Niger and the Benue, which converge and empty into the Niger Delta.
nigeria: When fully operational at the end of 2022, the plant, the largest south of the Sahara, is expected to employ 250,000 people and produce 2.5 million 50-kg bags of rice annually.
nigeria: Tinubu was inaugurated on 29 May 2023.
nigeria: The Niger Delta saw intense attacks on oil infrastructure in 2016 by militant groups such as the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), the Niger Delta People's Volunteer Force (NDPVF), the Ijaw National Congress (INC) and the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF).
nigeria: Currently, Lagos is primarily known as a business-oriented and fast-paced community.
nigeria: Yet husbands continue to dictate the votes for many women, which upholds the patriarchal system.
nigeria: The caliphate forces in the south continued to resist the British and Germans in the Adamawa Wars.
nigeria: Nigeria has a manufacturing industry that includes leather and textiles (centred in Kano, Abeokuta, Onitsha, and Lagos), plastics and processed food.
nigeria: However, security measures on board of mentioned vessels have recently meant that pirates are now more likely to attack fishing villages.
nigeria: In the dry northeast corner of the country lies Lake Chad, on a shared water boundary delimitation with Niger, Chad and Cameroon.
nigeria: The transition from Neolithic times to the Iron Age was accomplished without intermediate bronze production.
nigeria: Nigeria is a regional power in Africa and a middle power in international affairs.
nigeria: The rescued slaves were taken to Freetown, a colony in West Africa originally established for the resettlement of slaves freed by Britain.
nigeria: Nigeria is the world's largest producer of cassava.
nigeria: JSTOR 10.7722/j.ctt81pgm.
nigeria: Written documentation of Nigerian history from native sources dates back to at least the 14th century.
nigeria: As of 2019, the HIV prevalence rate among adults of ages 15–49 was 1.5 per cent.
nigeria: The 1930s saw the emergence of Onitsha Native Orchestra.
nigeria: Nigeria also has the 9th largest proven natural gas reserves estimated by OPEC; the government's value of its about 206.53 trillion cubic feet has been valued at $803.4 trillion.
nigeria: However, this principle of religious and ethnic diversity in leadership was ignored in the 2023 General Elections, where the candidate for the All Progressives Congress, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a Muslim, selected another Muslim, Senator Kashim Shettima, as running mate.
nigeria: The vast landlocked Sokoto Caliphate sought to link the eastern and western Sudan regions while attempting to push aggressively southward into the Yoruba country.
nigeria: The country has a judicial branch, the highest court of which is the Supreme Court of Nigeria.
nigeria: A 2012 report on religion and public life by the Pew Research Center stated that in 2010, 49.3% of Nigeria's population was Christian, 48.8% was Muslim, and 1.9% were followers of indigenous and other religions (such as the Bori in the North) or unaffiliated.
nigeria: The Northern Region gained more seats in parliament than the southerner Eastern and Western regions combined—this would cement Northern dominance in Nigerian politics for years to come.
nigeria: After the re-modernisation project achieved by the administration of Governor Raji Babatunde Fashola, Lagos is gradually becoming a major tourist destination.
nigeria: Local authorities take responsibility for implementing policy for state-controlled public education and state schools at a regional level.
nigeria: Nigeria was a founding member of the Organisation for African Unity (now the African Union) and had tremendous influence in West Africa and Africa on the whole.
nigeria: The pharmaceutical producer with the most employees in Nigeria is Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.
nigeria: The Nigerian military is the largest and widely recognised as the strongest military in Sub-Saharan-Africa, ranking third overall on the African continent, only behind Egypt and Algeria.
nigeria: They also produced many fashion designers who have developed many techniques and businesses along the way.
nigeria: Achebe, Chinua.
nigeria: The British appointed Muhammadu Attahiru II as the new caliph.
nigeria: The election marked the first time an incumbent president had lost re-election in Nigeria.
nigeria: While the primary source of new slaves were the newly conquered Hausa peoples, raids on non-Muslim communities and other ethnic groups accused of not being true Muslims persisted.
nigeria: Over the last million years, Lake Chad in the far north-east of Nigeria has dried up several times for a few thousand years and just as often growing to many times its current size.
nigeria: Nigerian Pidgin English, first used by British and African slavers to facilitate the Atlantic slave trade in the late 17th century, has replaced the native language for many Nigerians.
nigeria: However, in a report released by Pew Research Center in 2015, the Muslim population was estimated to be 50%, and by 2060, according to the report, Muslims will account for about 60% of the country.
nigeria: Chinese exports account for around 80 per cent of total bilateral trade volumes.
nigeria: (This system is mainly found in Anglo-Saxon countries; in continental Europe, on the other hand, codified and, as far as possible, abstracted civil law predominates, as in the Napoleonic Code in France).
nigeria: Francis Xavier Church, in Owo.
nigeria: Its financial services sector is well-developed, with a mix of local and international banks, asset management companies, brokerage houses, insurance companies and brokers, private equity funds, and investment banks.
nigeria: If no candidate reaches this hurdle, a second round of voting takes place between the leading candidate and the next candidate who received the majority of votes in the highest number of states.
nigeria: There are small minorities of British, American, Indian, Chinese (est.
nigeria: Obasanjo, Nigeria and the World.
nigeria: ISBN 9781847010278.
nigeria: Federal Research Division, 1992) online, comprehensive historical coverage; not copyright.
nigeria: Waste management including sewage treatment, the linked processes of deforestation and soil degradation, and climate change are the major environmental problems in Nigeria.
nigeria: The country's gold production in 2015 was 8 metric tons.
nigeria: ISBN 978-1349290512.
nigeria: Guinean forest-savanna mosaic is plains of tall grass interrupted by trees.
nigeria: In April 2022, the second terminal of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport has been inaugurated.
nigeria: Around 42.5% of the population were 14 years or younger, 19.6% were aged 15–24, 30.7% were aged 25–54, 4.0% were aged 55–64, and 3.1% were aged 65 years or older.
nigeria: Nri and Aguleri, where the Igbo creation myth originates, are in the territory of the Umeuri clan.
nigeria: Nigeria's ICT sector has experienced much growth, representing 10% of the nation's GDP in 2018 as compared to just 1% in 2001.
nigeria: The number of homicides in Nigeria varies greatly depending on the state.
nigeria: This plateau extends through the border with Cameroon, where the montane land is part of the Bamenda Highlands of Cameroon.
nigeria: It was the fastest-growing sector of the Nigerian economy in 2019.
nigeria: Accordingly, 40% of Nigerians live below the poverty line of US$1.90 as handled by the World Bank.
nigeria: Nigeria is the world's sixth-most populous country.
nigeria: Women have been reduced to sideline roles in appointive posts throughout all levels of government and still make up a tiny minority of elected officials.
nigeria: Tourism in Nigeria centres largely on events, because of the country's ample amount of ethnic groups, but also includes rain forests, savannahs, waterfalls, and other natural attractions.
nigeria: The HIV/AIDS rate in Nigeria is much lower than in other African nations such as Botswana or South Africa whose prevalence (percentage) rates are in the double digits.
nigeria: The economy also experienced two recessions and global oil shocks as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
nigeria: The largest, Millennium Park, was designed by architect Manfredi Nicoletti and officially opened in December 2003.
nigeria: The president is both head of state and head of the federal government.
nigeria: In 1885, British claims to a West African sphere of influence received recognition from other European nations at the Berlin Conference.
nigeria: Internationally, Nigeria is infamous for a type of advance-fee scam along with a form of confidence trick.
nigeria: In June 2022, a massacre took place in the St.
nigeria: After the 1970s oil boom, tertiary education was improved so it would reach every subregion of Nigeria.
nigeria: The 2009 thriller film The Figurine heightened the media attention towards the New Nigerian Cinema revolution.
nigeria: In 2010, thousands of people were inadvertently exposed to lead-containing soil from informal gold mining within the northern state of Zamfara.
nigeria: At the end of 2008, the Virgin Group announced its withdrawal from the airline; since September 2009 the airline has been operating as Nigerian Eagle Airlines.
nigeria: The defeat of these states opened up the Niger area to British rule.
nigeria: In the 16th century, Portuguese explorers were the first Europeans to begin important, direct trade with the peoples of southern Nigeria, at the port they named Lagos (formerly Eko) in Yoruba land and in Calabar along the region Slave Coast.
nigeria: In 2007, President Umaru Yar'Adua urged the country to embrace nuclear power to meet its growing energy needs.
nigeria: High blood pressure was in third place with 8%.
nigeria: Nigeria's national basketball team made the headlines internationally when it became the first African team to beat the United States men's national team.
nigeria: Kainji Dam excavations showed ironworking by the 2nd century BC.
nigeria: President Donald Trump stated the strike was to protect against alleged violence against Christians in the north.
nigeria: Nnamdi Azikiwe replaced the colonial governor-general in November 1960.
nigeria: 77% do not know of an alarm number ("helpline") for emergencies.
nigeria: Nigeria has five cities with a population of over a million (from largest to smallest): Lagos, Kano, Ibadan, Benin City and Port Harcourt.
nigeria: Jones, Cunliffe-Peter.
nigeria: Slave routes were established throughout Nigeria linking the hinterland areas with the major coastal ports.
nigeria: Its coastline is at least 853 km (530 mi).
nigeria: The disequilibrium and perceived corruption of the electoral and political process led to two military coups in 1966.
nigeria: This empire, grew rapidly under his rule and that of his descendants, who sent out invading armies in every direction.
nigeria: It supported movements against white minority governments in Southern Africa.
nigeria: Government investments have seen an increase in extensive road repairs and new construction has been carried out gradually as states in particular spend their share of increased government allocations.
nigeria: The games have aired on Kwese TV and have averaged a viewership of over a million people.
nigeria: doi:10.1017/CBO9780511819711.
nigeria: There is some piracy in the Gulf of Guinea, with attacks directed at all types of vessels.
nigeria: Retrieved 15 January 2020.
nigeria: The 30-month war, with a long blockade of Biafra and its isolation from trade and international relief, ended in January 1970.
nigeria: Despite the undoubted existence of slums in Nigeria, for example, the fact that 92% of men and 88% of women in Nigeria own a mobile phone is difficult to reconcile with the poverty percentages published by the IMF and the World Bank.
nigeria: Evidence of iron smelting has also been excavated at sites in the Nsukka region of southeast Nigeria: dating to 2000 BC at the site of Lejja and to 750 BC at the site of Opi.
nigeria: The 1983 military coup d'état was coordinated by key officers of the Nigerian military and led to the overthrow of the government and the installation of Major General Muhammadu Buhari as head of state.
nigeria: Additional major crops include maize, rice, millet, yam beans, and guinea corn (sorghum).
nigeria: Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa and accounts for about 17% of the continent's total population as of 2017; however, exactly how populous is a subject of speculation.
nigeria: At Nigeria's independence in 1960, the British colonial authorities, distrustful of the Yoruba and Igbo peoples, handed disproportionate power to the Northern elites .
nigeria: The Westminster system of government was retained, and thus the President's powers were generally ceremonial.
nigeria: Petroleum plays a large role in the Nigerian economy and politics, accounting for about 80% of government earnings.
nigeria: Oyo, at its territorial zenith in the late 17th to early 18th centuries, extended its influence from western Nigeria to modern-day Togo.
nigeria: The Nigerian film industry is known as Nollywood (a blend of "Nigeria" and "Hollywood") and is now the second-largest producer of movies in the world, having surpassed Hollywood.
nigeria: The largest airline in Nigeria is privately owned Air Peace, founded in 2012.
nigeria: The oldest signs of human settlement at Ife's current site date back to the 9th century, and its material culture includes Terracotta and Bronze figures.
nigeria: Most of Nigeria's oil fields are small and scattered, and as of 1990, these small fields accounted for 62.1% of all Nigerian production.
nigeria: His successor, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, adopted a new constitution on 5 May 1999, which provided for multiparty elections.
nigeria: In large this was due to the fact that the British had enjoyed far greater cooperation through indirect rule with the Hausa-Fulani aristocracy, who had been far more submissive and offered significantly less resistance than the leaders of the Yoruba and Igbo peoples collectively.
nigeria: The United Nations estimates that the population of Nigeria in 2021 was at 213,401,323, distributed as 51.7% rural and 48.3% urban, and with a population density of 167.5 people per square kilometre.
nigeria: To the southeast of the Benue are hills and mountains, which form the Mambilla Plateau, the highest plateau in Nigeria.
nigeria: Railways have undergone a massive revamping with projects such as the Lagos-Kano Standard Gauge Railway being completed connecting cities of Kano, Kaduna, Abuja, Ibadan and Lagos.
nigeria: The Nigerian, Wole Soyinka, won the Nobel Prize for literature.
nigeria: Respondents see "more security personnel and better training" (37%), "reduction of unemployment" (13%) and "prayers / divine intervention" (8%) as promising countermeasures.
nigeria: Passenger traffic increased from 9,358,166 in 2020 to 15,886,955 in 2021, a significant increase of over 69%.
nigeria: But nowadays with more education available to the public, Nigerian women are taking steps to have more active roles in the public, and with the help of different initiatives, more businesses are being started by women.
nigeria: It is the first satellite that was built in Nigeria, which followed many other Nigerian satellites that were built by other countries.
nigeria: Literature in the Yoruba, Hausa and Igbo languages (the three most populous language groups in Nigeria) does exist, however, and in the case of the Hausa, for example, can look back on a centuries-old tradition.
nigeria: The coup plotters wanted to replace Gowon's autocratic rule with a triumvirate of three brigadier generals whose decisions could be vetoed by a Supreme Military Council.
nigeria: Women's representation in government since independence from Britain is very poor.
nigeria: Other major slaving ports were located in Badagry, Lagos on the Bight of Benin, and Bonny Island on the Bight of Biafra.
nigeria: But the elections were marred by violence, and allegations of widespread vote-rigging and electoral malfeasance led to legal battles over the results.
nigeria: Shonekan's interim government, the shortest in the political history of the country, was overthrown in a coup d'état of 1993 led by General Sani Abacha, who used military force on a wide scale to end the crisis of the Third Republic.
nigeria: Obasanjo peacefully transferred power to Shagari, becoming the first head of state in Nigerian history to willingly step down.In August 1983, Shagari and the NPN were returned to power in a landslide victory, with a majority of seats in the National Assembly and control of 12 state governments.
nigeria: In the 2007 general elections, Umaru Yar'Adua of the People's Democratic Party came to power.
nigeria: According to the U.S.
nigeria: In November 2008, Nigeria's music scene (and that of Africa) received international attention when MTV hosted the continent's first African music awards show in Abuja.
nigeria: The origin of the name Niger, which originally applied to only the middle reaches of the Niger River, is uncertain.
nigeria: By the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the company had vastly succeeded in subjugating the independent southern kingdoms along the Niger River, the British conquered Benin in 1897, and, in the Anglo-Aro War (1901–1902), defeated other opponents.
nigeria: The river system of the northeast is also a major river system.
nigeria: Common law is the collection of authoritative judicial decisions in the field of civil law (so-called precedents) that have been handed down in the country concerned – in this case Nigeria.
nigeria: Nigeria also has an abundant supply of under-exploited natural resources, including coal, bauxite, tantalite, gold, tin, iron ore, limestone, niobium, lead and zinc.
nigeria: The main Muslim and Christian festivals are often celebrated in ways that are unique to Nigeria or unique to the people of a locality.
nigeria: A comprehensive approach strategy was extended to all areas of health care, with subsequent improvement in the health care indicators and improvement in health care efficiency and cost.
nigeria: Retaining these expensively trained professionals has been identified as one of the goals of the government.
nigeria: Nigeria is not only known for their many fashion textiles and garment pieces that are secret to their culture.
nigeria: Abacha looted money to offshore accounts in Western European banks and maintained his grip on power through arrests and bribing generals and politicians.
nigeria: The new strategy dramatically increased accessibility through community-based health care reform, resulting in more efficient and equitable provision of services.
nigeria: The House contains 360 seats, with the number of seats per state determined by population.
nigeria: In June 2013, Shell announced a strategic review of its operations in Nigeria, hinting that assets could be divested.
nigeria: As of January 2022, Nigeria is the host to 5 out of the 7 unicorn companies in Africa.
nigeria: Most workers in the informal sector are women.
nigeria: Nigerian Pidgin English, often known simply as "Pidgin" or "Broken" (Broken English), is also a popular lingua franca, though with varying regional influences on dialect and slang.
nigeria: ISBN 978-0-521-86294-3.
nigeria: Nigeria is also one of the world's top twenty exporters of natural rubber, generating $20.9 million in 2019.
nigeria: Women have fewer land rights.
nigeria: The median age in 2017 was 18.4 years.
nigeria: An imbalance was created in the polity as a result of the 1961 plebiscite.
nigeria: Aliko Dangote, Nigeria's richest inhabitant, based his wealth on cement production, as well as agricultural commodities.
nigeria: Later, the counter-coup of 1966, supported primarily by Northern military officers, facilitated the rise of Yakubu Gowon as military head of state.
nigeria: Because Akintola was an ally of Ahmadu Bello, the undisputed strong man of Nigeria, Akintola was criticised as being a tool of the North.
nigeria: However, Babangida annulled the elections, leading to massive civilian protests that effectively shut down the country for weeks.
nigeria: Agriculture used to be the principal foreign exchange earner of Nigeria.
nigeria: In reality, the scammer collects money from the victim with no payout occurring.
nigeria: The Senate is a 109-seat body with three members from each state and one from the capital region of Abuja; members are elected by popular vote to four-year terms.
nigeria: The opposition consisted of the comparatively liberal Action Group, which was largely dominated by the Yoruba and led by Obafemi Awolowo.
nigeria: Nigeria has been reorganising its health system since the Bamako Initiative of 1987, which formally promoted community-based methods of increasing accessibility of drugs and health care services to the population, in part by implementing user fees.
nigeria: Rainfall is more limited to between 500 and 1,500 millimetres (20 and 60 in) per year.
nigeria: Lagos Rail Mass Transit controls transport in Lagos with two currently operating services.
nigeria: The motorway links of important economic centres such as Lagos-Ibadan, Lagos-Badagry and Enugu-Onitsha have been renovated.
nigeria: Tertiary education in Nigeria consists of universities (public and private), polytechnics, monotechnics, and colleges of education.
nigeria: Nigeria is located in western Africa on the Gulf of Guinea and has a total area of 923,768 km2 (356,669 mi2), making it the world's 32nd-largest country.
nigeria: Illegal oil refineries, in which local operators convert stolen crude oil into petrol and diesel, are considered particularly "dirty, dangerous and lucrative".
