nitrogen_cycle: Mo-nitrogenase is a complex two-component enzyme that has multiple metal-containing prosthetic groups.
nitrogen_cycle: A few non-legumes can also form such symbioses.
nitrogen_cycle: Microbes which undertake DNRA oxidise organic matter and use nitrate as an electron acceptor, reducing it to nitrite, then ammonium (NO−3  →  NO−2  →  NH+4).
nitrogen_cycle: Harvesting fish from regenerated nitrogen areas will lead to a decrease in nitrogen and therefore a decrease in primary production.
nitrogen_cycle: They use the nitrate as an electron acceptor in the place of oxygen during respiration.
nitrogen_cycle: This is occurring along the same lines as control of phosphorus fertilizer, restriction of which is normally considered essential to the recovery of eutrophied waterbodies.
nitrogen_cycle: Even though there have been some efforts at reducing Nitrogen agricultural runoff, there has been no significant reduction in dead zone size.
nitrogen_cycle: The conversion of nitrogen can be carried out through both biological and physical processes.
nitrogen_cycle: Eutrophication often leads to lower dissolved oxygen levels in the water column, including hypoxic and anoxic conditions, which can cause death of aquatic fauna.
nitrogen_cycle: It is now known that there is a more complex cycling of amino acids between Rhizobia bacteroids and plants.
nitrogen_cycle: These bacteria have the nitrogenase enzyme that combines gaseous nitrogen with hydrogen to produce ammonia, which is converted by the bacteria into other organic compounds.
nitrogen_cycle: Once it enters the human body, nitrate can react with organic compounds through nitrosation reactions in the stomach to form nitrosamines and nitrosamides, which are involved in some types of cancers (e.g., oral cancer and gastric cancer).
nitrogen_cycle: The new nitrogen can come from below the euphotic zone or from outside sources.
nitrogen_cycle: They also respond closely to changes in temperature.
nitrogen_cycle: New production is an important component of the marine environment.
nitrogen_cycle: For example, the nitrogenous wastes in animal urine are broken down by nitrifying bacteria in the soil to be used by plants.
nitrogen_cycle: Oceanic dead zones near the mouth of the Mississippi in the Gulf of Mexico are a well-known example of algal bloom-induced hypoxia.
nitrogen_cycle: NH+4 + NO−2  →  N2 + 2 H2O (ΔG° = −357 kJ⋅mol−1).
nitrogen_cycle: The input of iron varies by region and is delivered to the ocean by dust (from dust storms) and leached out of rocks.
nitrogen_cycle: Most biological nitrogen fixation occurs by the activity of molybdenum (Mo)-nitrogenase, found in a wide variety of bacteria and some Archaea.
nitrogen_cycle: In plants that have a symbiotic relationship with rhizobia, some nitrogen is assimilated in the form of ammonium ions directly from the nodules.
nitrogen_cycle: If the organic matter is eaten, respired, delivered to the water as ammonia, and re-incorporated into organic matter by phytoplankton it is considered recycled/regenerated production.
nitrogen_cycle: Some other non-point sources for nitrate pollution in groundwater originate from livestock feeding, animal and human contamination, and municipal and industrial waste.
nitrogen_cycle: This is the last step in the nitrogen cycle step involving organic compounds.
nitrogen_cycle: There are a few notable and well-known exceptions that include most Prochlorococcus and some Synechococcus that can only take up nitrogen as ammonium.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrogen gases and aerosols can be directly toxic to certain plant species, affecting the aboveground physiology and growth of plants near large point sources of nitrogen pollution.
nitrogen_cycle: Freshwater has a lower ability to neutralize acidity, so acidification can occur with less nitrogen deposition.
nitrogen_cycle: Comammox have been found it could be used in wastewater treatment.
nitrogen_cycle: Atmospheric nitrogen must be processed, or "fixed", into a usable form to be taken up by plants.
nitrogen_cycle: Plants can absorb nitrate or ammonium from the soil by their root hairs.
nitrogen_cycle: Reactive nitrogen can be denitrified in water or buried in sediments to accumulate.
nitrogen_cycle: The combined process is called COMAMMOX = "COMplete AMMonia OXidation." Comammox is in many ecosystems, for example, freshwater.
nitrogen_cycle: When those reactive nitrogens are released into the lower atmosphere, they can induce the formation of smog, particulate matter, and aerosols, all of which are major contributors to adverse health effects on human health from air pollution.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrogen mineralization and ammonification have a positive correlation with organic nitrogen in the soil, soil microbial biomass, and average annual precipitation.
nitrogen_cycle: Decreases in biodiversity can also result if higher nitrogen availability increases nitrogen-demanding grasses, causing a degradation of nitrogen-poor, species-diverse heathlands.
nitrogen_cycle: Ammonia and ammonium – two reduced forms of nitrogen – can be detrimental over time due to increased toxicity toward sensitive species of plants, particularly those that are accustomed to using nitrate as their source of nitrogen, causing poor development of their roots and shoots.
nitrogen_cycle: The processes described in the nitrogen cycle transform nitrogen substances from one form to another.
nitrogen_cycle: Myriad enzymes are involved including dehydrogenases, proteases, and deaminases such as glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamine synthetase.
nitrogen_cycle: Human modification of the global nitrogen cycle can negatively affect the natural environment system and also human health.
nitrogen_cycle: It is a reactant in the atmosphere, where it acts as an aerosol, decreasing air quality and clinging to water droplets, eventually resulting in nitric acid (HNO3) that produces acid rain.
nitrogen_cycle: One reason is that only continual input of new nitrogen can determine the total capacity of the ocean to produce a sustainable fish harvest.
nitrogen_cycle: The nitrogen cycle is an important process in the ocean as well.
nitrogen_cycle: This in turn would lead to a further build-up of fixed nitrogen in the ocean, with the potential consequence of eutrophication.
nitrogen_cycle: Ammonia and nitrous oxides actively alter atmospheric chemistry.
nitrogen_cycle: However, if fish are harvested from areas of new nitrogen the nitrogen will be replenished.
nitrogen_cycle: The amount of ammonium in the ocean is about 3 orders of magnitude less than nitrate.
nitrogen_cycle: Since groundwater often serves as the primary domestic water supply, nitrate pollution can be extended from groundwater to surface and drinking water during potable water production, especially for small community water supplies, where poorly regulated and unsanitary waters are used.
nitrogen_cycle: N2 can be returned to the atmosphere through denitrification.
nitrogen_cycle: Since 2006, the application of nitrogen fertilizer has been increasingly controlled in Britain and the United States.
nitrogen_cycle: Combustion processes in energy production, transportation, and industry can also form new reactive nitrogen via the emission of NOx, an unintentional waste product.
nitrogen_cycle: Phytoplankton need nitrogen in biologically available forms for the initial synthesis of organic matter.
nitrogen_cycle: Ammonia and urea are released into the water by excretion from plankton.
nitrogen_cycle: While the overall cycle is similar, there are different players and modes of transfer for nitrogen in the ocean.
nitrogen_cycle: Moreover, NH3 can react with other acid gases (sulfuric and hydrochloric acids) to form ammonium-containing particles, which are the precursors for the secondary organic aerosol particles in photochemical smog.
nitrogen_cycle: Relatively sessile benthos, or bottom-dwelling creatures, are particularly vulnerable because of their lack of mobility, though large fish kills are not uncommon.
nitrogen_cycle: This biological process is a redox comproportionation reaction, in which ammonia (the reducing agent giving electrons) and nitrite (the oxidizing agent accepting electrons) transfer three electrons and are converted into one molecule of diatomic nitrogen (N2) gas and two water molecules.
nitrogen_cycle: The nutrients in the ocean are not uniformly distributed.
nitrogen_cycle: Agricultural sources of reactive nitrogen can produce atmospheric emission of ammonia (NH3), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and nitrous oxide (N2O).
nitrogen_cycle: The stoichiometrically balanced formula for the ANAMMOX chemical reaction can be written as following, where an ammonium ion includes the ammonia molecule, its conjugated base:
nitrogen_cycle: Often these conversions are effected by different organisms.
nitrogen_cycle: However, as pH decreases, and more ammonia is converted to ammonium ions (gray arrow), there is less oxidation of ammonia to nitrite (NO–2), resulting in an overall decrease in nitrification and denitrification (black arrows).
nitrogen_cycle: Today, about 30% of the total fixed nitrogen is produced industrially using the Haber-Bosch process, which uses high temperatures and pressures to convert nitrogen gas and a hydrogen source (natural gas or petroleum) into ammonia.
nitrogen_cycle: Denitrification happens in anaerobic conditions e.g.
nitrogen_cycle: Elevated nitrate in groundwater is a concern for drinking water use because nitrate can interfere with blood-oxygen levels in infants and cause methemoglobinemia or blue-baby syndrome.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrogen has contributed to severe eutrophication problems in some water bodies.
nitrogen_cycle: There are multiple sources of atmospheric reactive nitrogen (Nr) fluxes.
nitrogen_cycle: This an exergonic process (here also an exothermic reaction) releasing energy, as indicated by the negative value of ΔG°, the difference in Gibbs free energy between the products of reaction and the reagents.
nitrogen_cycle: In the atmosphere, NO2 can be oxidized to nitric acid (HNO3), and it can further react with NH3 to form ammonium nitrate (NH4NO3), which facilitates the formation of particulate nitrate.
nitrogen_cycle: Due to its high solubility and low retention by soil, nitrate can easily escape from the subsoil layer to the groundwater, causing nitrate pollution.
nitrogen_cycle: This acidification can negatively impact fish and aquatic invertebrates while favoring phytoplankton that can handle more acidic environments.
nitrogen_cycle: Other bacterial species such as Nitrobacter, are responsible for the oxidation of the nitrites (NO−2) into nitrates (NO−3).
nitrogen_cycle: In the primary stage of nitrification, the oxidation of ammonium (NH+4) is performed by bacteria such as the Nitrosomonas species, which converts ammonia to nitrites (NO−2).
nitrogen_cycle: This can occur from sinking of phytoplankton, vertical mixing, or sinking of waste of vertical migrators.
nitrogen_cycle: The conversion of ammonium to nitrate is performed primarily by soil-living bacteria and other nitrifying bacteria.
nitrogen_cycle: Generation of Nr, reactive nitrogen, has increased over 10 fold in the past century due to global industrialisation.
nitrogen_cycle: N2O has deleterious effects in the stratosphere, where it breaks down and acts as a catalyst in the destruction of atmospheric ozone.
nitrogen_cycle: The diagram alongside shows how these processes fit together to form the nitrogen cycle.
nitrogen_cycle: Increased nitrogen deposition also leads to soil acidification, which increases base cation leaching in the soil and amounts of aluminum and other potentially toxic metals, along with decreasing the amount of nitrification occurring and increasing plant-derived litter.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrous oxide is also a greenhouse gas and is currently the third largest contributor to global warming, after carbon dioxide and methane.
nitrogen_cycle: Additional risks posed by increased availability of inorganic nitrogen in aquatic ecosystems include water acidification; eutrophication of fresh and saltwater systems; and toxicity issues for animals, including humans.
nitrogen_cycle: Between ammonium, nitrite, and nitrate, nitrite has the fastest turnover rate.
nitrogen_cycle: MIT OpenCourseWare.
nitrogen_cycle: The very high temperature of lightning naturally produces small amounts of NOx, NH3, and HNO3, but high-temperature combustion has contributed to a 6- or 7-fold increase in the flux of NOx to the atmosphere.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrogen sources are removed from the euphotic zone by the downward movement of the organic matter.
nitrogen_cycle: While many animals, fungi, and other heterotrophic organisms obtain nitrogen by ingestion of amino acids, nucleotides, and other small organic molecules, other heterotrophs (including many bacteria) are able to utilize inorganic compounds, such as ammonium as sole N sources.
nitrogen_cycle: Denitrification is the reduction of nitrates back into nitrogen gas (N2), completing the nitrogen cycle.
nitrogen_cycle: The conversion of nitrogen gas (N2) into nitrates and nitrites through atmospheric, industrial and biological processes is called nitrogen fixation.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrogen cannot be utilized by phytoplankton as N2 so it must undergo nitrogen fixation which is performed predominately by cyanobacteria.
nitrogen_cycle: Ammonium is thought to be the preferred source of fixed nitrogen for phytoplankton because its assimilation does not involve a redox reaction and therefore requires little energy.
nitrogen_cycle: This form of nitrogen follows a cascade through the biosphere via a variety of mechanisms, and is accumulating as the rate of its generation is greater than the rate of denitrification.
nitrogen_cycle: Without supplies of fixed nitrogen entering the marine cycle, the fixed nitrogen would be used up in about 2000 years.
nitrogen_cycle: Its production is a function of combustion temperature - the higher the temperature, the more NOx is produced.
nitrogen_cycle: However, these processes slow in the presence of vegetation with high carbon to nitrogen ratios and fertilization with sugar.
nitrogen_cycle: Excessive use of N-fertilizer in agriculture has been a significant source of nitrate pollution in groundwater and surface water.
nitrogen_cycle: Ammonium and nitrite show a maximum concentration at 50–80 m (lower end of the euphotic zone) with decreasing concentration below that depth.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrogen is present in the environment in a wide variety of chemical forms including organic nitrogen, ammonium (NH+4), nitrite (NO−2), nitrate (NO−3), nitrous oxide (N2O), nitric oxide (NO) or inorganic nitrogen gas (N2).
nitrogen_cycle: However, the rate at which nitrogen can be taken up by phytoplankton is decreased in oligotrophic waters year-round and temperate water in the summer resulting in lower primary production.
nitrogen_cycle: Changes to plant species may also occur as nitrogen compound accumulation increases availability in a given ecosystem, eventually changing the species composition, plant diversity, and nitrogen cycling.
nitrogen_cycle: Symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria such as Rhizobium usually live in the root nodules of legumes (such as peas, alfalfa, and locust trees).
nitrogen_cycle: Between 5 and 10 billion kg per year are fixed by lightning strikes, but most fixation is done by free-living or symbiotic bacteria known as diazotrophs.
nitrogen_cycle: The sinking results in ammonia being introduced at lower depths below the euphotic zone.
nitrogen_cycle: This is likely to enhance nitrogen fixation by diazotrophs (gray arrow), which utilize H+ ions to convert nitrogen into bioavailable forms such as ammonia (NH3) and ammonium ions (NH+4).
nitrogen_cycle: The WHO standard for drinking water is 50 mg NO−3 L−1 for short-term exposure, and for 3 mg NO−3 L−1 chronic effects.
nitrogen_cycle: This will have a negative effect on the system.
nitrogen_cycle: The fecal plumes of cetaceans also act as a junction in the marine nitrogen cycle, concentrating nitrogen in the epipelagic zones of ocean environments before its dispersion through various marine layers, ultimately enhancing oceanic primary productivity.
nitrogen_cycle: Organic nitrogen may be in the form of a living organism, humus or in the intermediate products of organic matter decomposition.
nitrogen_cycle: The New York Adirondack Lakes, Catskills, Hudson Highlands, Rensselaer Plateau and parts of Long Island display the impact of nitric acid rain deposition, resulting in the killing of fish and many other aquatic species.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrogen enters the water through the precipitation, runoff, or as N2 from the atmosphere.
nitrogen_cycle: Bacteria and fungi convert this organic nitrogen into ammonia and sometimes ammonium through a series of processes called ammonification or mineralization.
nitrogen_cycle: An example of free-living bacteria is Azotobacter.
nitrogen_cycle: Bacteria are able to convert ammonia to nitrite and nitrate but they are inhibited by light so this must occur below the euphotic zone.
nitrogen_cycle: Dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA), or nitrate/nitrite ammonification, is an anaerobic respiration process.
nitrogen_cycle: This process makes up a major proportion of nitrogen conversion in the oceans.
nitrogen_cycle: However, there are regions of high surface nitrate but low chlorophyll that are referred to as HNLC (high nitrogen, low chlorophyll) regions.
nitrogen_cycle: Outside sources are upwelling from deep water and nitrogen fixation.
nitrogen_cycle: Where groundwater recharges stream flow, nitrate-enriched groundwater can contribute to eutrophication, a process that leads to high algal population and growth, especially blue-green algal populations.
nitrogen_cycle: Ammonia (NH3) in the atmosphere has tripled as the result of human activities.
nitrogen_cycle: These facultatively (meaning optionally) anaerobic bacteria can also live in aerobic conditions.
nitrogen_cycle: Because of this relationship, legumes will often increase the nitrogen content of nitrogen-poor soils.
nitrogen_cycle: The ANaerobic AMMonia OXidation process is also known as the ANAMMOX process, an abbreviation coined by joining the first syllables of each of these three words.
nitrogen_cycle: It is important for the ammonia (NH3) to be converted to nitrates or nitrites because ammonia gas is toxic to plants.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrate is depleted in near-surface water except in upwelling regions.
nitrogen_cycle: Human alterations to the global nitrogen cycle are most intense in developed countries and in Asia, where vehicle emissions and industrial agriculture are highest.
nitrogen_cycle: Many of these processes are carried out by microbes, either in their effort to harvest energy or to accumulate nitrogen in a form needed for their growth.
nitrogen_cycle: Both denitrifying and nitrate ammonification bacteria will be competing for nitrate in the environment, although DNRA acts to conserve bioavailable nitrogen as soluble ammonium rather than producing dinitrogen gas.
nitrogen_cycle: Gray arrows represent an increase while black arrows represent a decrease in the associated process.
nitrogen_cycle: Areas of upwelling provide supplies of nitrogen from below the euphotic zone.
nitrogen_cycle: regenerated nitrogen ===
Nitrogen entering the euphotic zone is referred to as new nitrogen because it is newly arrived from outside the productive layer.
nitrogen_cycle: This distribution can be accounted for by the fact that nitrite and ammonium are intermediate species.
nitrogen_cycle: This buried Nr lies latent until its sediments are disturbed through events like storms or floods, when large amounts of nitrogen are reintroduced to the water where it can be denitrified and impact the environment.
nitrogen_cycle: In addition, humans have significantly contributed to the transfer of nitrogen trace gases from Earth to the atmosphere and from the land to aquatic systems.
nitrogen_cycle: Ecosystem processes can increase with nitrogen fertilization, but anthropogenic input can also result in nitrogen saturation, which weakens productivity and can damage the health of plants, animals, fish, and humans.
nitrogen_cycle: waterlogged soils.
nitrogen_cycle: The nitrogen cycle is the biogeochemical cycle by which nitrogen is converted into multiple chemical forms as it circulates among atmospheric, terrestrial, and marine ecosystems.
nitrogen_cycle: While not as abundant in the atmosphere as carbon dioxide, it is, for an equivalent mass, nearly 300 times more potent in its ability to warm the planet.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrification can then occur to convert the ammonium to nitrite and nitrate.
nitrogen_cycle: Denitrification occurs in free-living microorganisms as well as obligate symbionts of anaerobic ciliates.
nitrogen_cycle: It can be produced during nitrate assimilation, nitrification, and denitrification; however, it is immediately consumed again.
nitrogen_cycle: The best explanation for HNLC regions relates to iron scarcity in the ocean, which may play an important part in ocean dynamics and nutrient cycles.
nitrogen_cycle: While not directly toxic to fish life, like ammonia, nitrate can have indirect effects on fish if it contributes to this eutrophication.
nitrogen_cycle: Ammonification or Mineralization is performed by bacteria to convert organic nitrogen to ammonia.
nitrogen_cycle: The nitrogen cycle is of particular interest to ecologists because nitrogen availability can affect the rate of key ecosystem processes, including primary production and decomposition.
nitrogen_cycle: Due to the ongoing changes caused by high nitrogen deposition, an environment's susceptibility to ecological stress and disturbance – such as pests and pathogens – may increase, thus making it less resilient to situations that otherwise would have little impact on its long-term vitality.
nitrogen_cycle: Land application can be an attractive alternative to aeration.
nitrogen_cycle: Atmospheric ammonia and nitric acid also damage respiratory systems.
nitrogen_cycle: Utilization of various N sources is carefully regulated in all organisms.
nitrogen_cycle: If nitrate is absorbed, it is first reduced to nitrite ions and then ammonium ions for incorporation into amino acids, nucleic acids, and chlorophyll.
nitrogen_cycle: Fossil fuel combustion is a primary contributor, but so are biofuels and even the burning of hydrogen.
nitrogen_cycle: Human activities such as fossil fuel combustion, use of artificial nitrogen fertilizers, and release of nitrogen in wastewater have dramatically altered the global nitrogen cycle.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrous oxide (N2O) has risen in the atmosphere as a result of agricultural fertilization, biomass burning, cattle and feedlots, and industrial sources.
nitrogen_cycle: However, the rate that hydrogen is directly injected into the combustion chambers of internal combustion engines can be controlled to prevent the higher combustion temperatures that produce NOx.
nitrogen_cycle: Coastal upwelling regions usually have high nitrate and chlorophyll levels as a result of the increased production.
nitrogen_cycle: Ammonia (NH3) is highly toxic to fish, and the level of ammonia discharged from wastewater treatment facilities must be closely monitored.
nitrogen_cycle: Nr burial in lakes and oceans has been increasing in tandem with anthropogenic input, now double the Nr burial flux pre-industrial revolution.
nitrogen_cycle: They are precursors of tropospheric (lower atmosphere) ozone production, which contributes to smog and acid rain, damages plants and increases nitrogen inputs to ecosystems.
nitrogen_cycle: The plant provides amino acids to the bacteroids so ammonia assimilation is not required and the bacteroids pass amino acids (with the newly fixed nitrogen) back to the plant, thus forming an interdependent relationship.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrate can be returned to the euphotic zone by vertical mixing and upwelling where it can be taken up by phytoplankton to continue the cycle.
nitrogen_cycle: However, atmospheric nitrogen has limited availability for biological use, leading to a scarcity of usable nitrogen in many types of ecosystems.
nitrogen_cycle: The distribution of the different forms of nitrogen varies throughout the oceans as well.
nitrogen_cycle: This process is performed by bacterial species such as Pseudomonas and Paracoccus, under anaerobic conditions.
nitrogen_cycle: They are both rapidly produced and consumed through the water column.
nitrogen_cycle: Important processes in the nitrogen cycle include fixation, ammonification, nitrification, and denitrification.
nitrogen_cycle: Due to their very high solubility and because soils are highly unable to retain anions, nitrates can enter groundwater.
nitrogen_cycle: Here they form a mutualistic relationship with the plant, producing ammonia in exchange for carbohydrates.
nitrogen_cycle: Iron is under consideration as the true limiting element to ecosystem productivity in the ocean.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrification via aeration before discharge is often desirable to prevent fish deaths.
nitrogen_cycle: The majority of Earth's atmosphere (78%) is atmospheric nitrogen, making it the largest source of nitrogen.
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrate requires a redox reaction for assimilation but is more abundant so most phytoplankton have adapted to have the enzymes necessary to undertake this reduction (nitrate reductase).
nitrogen_cycle: Nitrate reduction is also part of the iron cycle, under anoxic conditions Fe(II) can donate an electron to NO−3 and is oxidized to Fe(III) while NO−3 is reduced to NO−2, N2O, N2, and NH+4 depending on the conditions and microbial species involved.
nitrogen_cycle: The denitrifying bacteria use nitrates in the soil to carry out respiration and consequently produce nitrogen gas, which is inert and unavailable to plants.
nitrogen_cycle: Some bacteria - Nitrospira - oxidize ammonia to nitrate.
nitrogen_cycle: Coastal zones provide nitrogen from runoff and upwelling occurs readily along the coast.
