north_america: In 1803, during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson, the third U.S.
north_america: Others include the Gulf of Saint Lawrence and the Gulf of California.
north_america: Spain established permanent settlements on the Caribbean islands of Hispaniola and Cuba in the 1490s, building cities, putting the resident indigenous populations to work, raising crops for Spanish settlers and panning gold to enrich the Spaniards.
north_america: Climate in coastal California is described to be Mediterranean, with average temperatures in cities like San Francisco ranging from 57 to 70 °F (14 to 21 °C) over the course of the year.
north_america: There is a significant minority of Indigenous Americans and Asians among other less numerous groups.
north_america: The Great Lakes region and the Pacific Northwest include areas in both the U.S.
north_america: Curling is an important winter sport in Canada, and the Winter Olympics includes it in the roster.
north_america: Indigenous culture changed significantly and their affiliation with political and cultural groups also changed.
north_america: In contrast to largely Protestant Anglo settlers in North America, French-speaking Canadians were Catholic.
north_america: In a geologic sense, Bermuda is not part of the Americas, but an oceanic island that was formed on the fissure of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge over 100 million years ago (mya).
north_america: Notable North American fauna include the bison, black bear, jaguar, cougar, prairie dog, turkey, pronghorn, raccoon, coyote, and monarch butterfly.
north_america: The Canadian Shield
The Interior Plains
The Great Lakes-St.
north_america: †2011 Census figures
north_america: During the thousands of years of native habitation on the continent, cultures changed and shifted.
north_america: From the Late Paleozoic to Early Mesozoic eras, North America was joined with the other modern-day continents as part of the supercontinent Pangaea, with Eurasia to its east.
north_america: North America is the fourth most populous continent after Asia, Africa, and Europe.
north_america: In Canada, these include (from east to west) Atlantic Canada, Central Canada, the Canadian Prairies, the British Columbia Coast, Western Canada, and Northern Canada.
north_america: Yet as cities grow in these warmer regions of North America, they are increasingly forced to deal with the major issue of water shortages.
north_america: In addition to the larger trade blocs there is the Canada-Costa Rica Free Trade Agreement among numerous other free-trade relations, often between the larger, more developed countries and Central American and Caribbean countries.
north_america: The Caribbean islands, or West Indies, are considered part of North America.
north_america: The largest, and best known, is Sudbury, Ontario.
north_america: Climate west of the Cascade Range is described as being temperate weather with average precipitation 20 inches (510 millimeters).
north_america: The nearest landmass to it is Cape Hatteras, North Carolina.
north_america: Mexico and Central America are part of Latin America and are culturally distinct from anglophone and francophone North America.
north_america: The Canadian government took action to protect Canadian culture by limiting non-Canadian content in broadcasting, creating the Canadian Radio and Telecommunications Commission to monitor Canadian content.
north_america: The United States can be divided into twelve main geological provinces:
north_america: Of these trade blocs, the U.S.
north_america: These causes included warm temperatures, retirement of Baby Boomers, large industry, and the influx of immigrants.
north_america: There are also large cities in the Caribbean.
north_america: The western mountains are split in the middle into the main range of the Rockies and the coast ranges in California, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia, with the Great Basin—a lower area containing smaller ranges and low-lying deserts—in between.
north_america: The islands of the West Indies delineate a submerged former land bridge, which had connected North and South America via what are now Florida and Venezuela.
north_america: Greenland, a self-governing Danish island, and the world's largest, is on the same tectonic plate (the North American Plate) and is part of North America geographically.
north_america: The North American economy is well defined and structured in three main economic areas.
north_america: French is the official language of the province of Quebec, where 95% of the people speak it as either their first or second language, and it is co-official with English in the province of New Brunswick.
north_america: The term Anglo-America is used to refer to the anglophone countries of the Americas: namely Canada (where English and French are co-official) and the U.S., but also sometimes Belize and parts of the tropics, especially the Commonwealth Caribbean.
north_america: Anglo-America includes most of North America, Belize, and Caribbean islands with English-speaking populations.
north_america: Central America is geologically active with volcanic eruptions and earthquakes occurring from time to time.
north_america: Canada, the U.S., and Mexico host communities of Jews (6 million or about 1.8%), Buddhists (3.8 million or 1.1%) and Muslims (3.4 million or 1.0%).
north_america: (5.4 million), Canada (375,000) and Mexico (67,476).
north_america: With the signing and issuance of the Declaration of Independence, the thirteen colonies formalized and escalated the American Revolutionary War, which had begun the year before at the Battles of Lexington and Concord on 19 April 1775.
north_america: and Mexico.
north_america: Other French-speaking locales include the province of Ontario (the official language is English, but there are an estimated 600,000 Franco-Ontarians), the province of Manitoba (co-official as de jure with English), the French West Indies and Saint-Pierre et Miquelon, as well as the U.S.
north_america: Panama and Costa Rica have a significantly higher Human Development Index and GDP than the rest of the Central American nations.
north_america: Native groups also are classified by their language families, which included Athabaskan and Uto-Aztecan languages.
north_america: This area has the wettest cities in the contiguous U.S., with annual precipitation reaching 67 in (1,700 mm) in Mobile, Alabama.
north_america: Its three largest groups are Whites, Mestizos, and Blacks.
north_america: The French language has historically played a significant role in North America and now retains a distinctive presence in some regions.
north_america: Upon Europeans' arrival in the "New World", indigenous peoples had a variety of reactions, including curiosity, trading, cooperation, resignation, and resistance.
north_america: Christianity also is the predominant religion in the 23 dependent territories in North America.
north_america: Pacific
Columbia Plateau
Basin and Range
Colorado Plateau
Rocky Mountains
Laurentian Upland
Interior Plains
Interior Highlands
Appalachian Highlands
Atlantic Plain
Alaskan
Hawaiian
Each province has its own geologic history and unique features.
north_america: The English did not establish settlements north or east of the St.
north_america: The indigenous peoples of the Americas have many creation myths, some of which assert that they have been present on the land since its creation, but there is no evidence that humans evolved there.
north_america: and Canada, there are approximately 150 surviving indigenous languages of the 300 spoken prior to European contact.
north_america: Russia sold its North American claims, which included the present-day U.S.
north_america: Vespucci explored South America between 1497 and 1502, and was the first European to suggest that the Americas represented a landmass then unknown to the Europeans.
north_america: Cities in the Sun Belt regions of the U.S., such as those in Southern California and Houston, Phoenix, Miami, Atlanta, and Las Vegas, are experiencing rapid growth.
north_america: Interactive SVG version of Non-Native American Nations Control over N America 1750–2008 animation
north_america: Erikson was the first European to make landfall on the continent (excluding Greenland).
north_america: railroads to the Pacific and was not the largest single railroad system in the world.
north_america: Its magnetic anomalies are very similar to the Sudbury Basin, and so it could be a second metal-rich impact crater.
north_america: Before the Central American isthmus formed, the region had been underwater.
north_america: North America has historically been known by other names, including Spanish North America, New Spain, New France, British North America and América Septentrional, the first official name given to Mexico.
north_america: Canada, Mexico, and the United States will host the 2026 FIFA World Cup.
north_america: In the past decade the trade bloc focused largely on free-trade agreements and under the CARICOM Office of Trade Negotiations free-trade agreements have been signed into effect.
north_america: Although the term does not refer to a unified region, Middle America includes Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean.
north_america: This is in part attributed to the fact that the economy of the U.S.
north_america: West Coast.
north_america: Canada's Francophone heritage has been enshrined in law since the British parliament passed the Quebec Act of 1774.
north_america: On North America's southeastern coast, Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de León, who had accompanied Columbus's second voyage, visited and named in 1513 La Florida.
north_america: On a 1553 world map published by Petrus Apianus, North America was called "Baccalearum", meaning "realm of the Cod fish", in reference to the abundance of cod on the East Coast.
north_america: Throughout the Shield, there are many mining towns extracting these minerals.
north_america: Britain did not begin settling on the North American mainland until a hundred years after the first Spanish settlements, since it sought first to control nearby Ireland.
north_america: The proximity of cities to each other on the Canada–United States border and the Mexico–U.S.
north_america: The most significant Late Jurassic dinosaur-bearing fossil deposit in North America is the Morrison Formation of the western U.S.
north_america: Central America has many mountain ranges; the longest are the Sierra Madre de Chiapas, the Cordillera Isabelia, and the Cordillera de Talamanca.
north_america: These nations also take part in inter-continental trade blocs.
north_america: border, particularly in Mexico, are also experiencing large amounts of growth.
north_america: Greenland is also considered Nordic and has strong Danish ties due to centuries of colonization by Denmark.
north_america: Canada, Mexico, and the U.S.
north_america: is the world's largest national economy; the country had a nominal GDP of approximately $14.7 trillion in 2010.
north_america: The Mayan culture was still present in southern Mexico and Guatemala when the Spanish conquistadors arrived, but political dominance in the area had shifted to the Aztec Empire, whose capital city Tenochtitlan was located further north in the Valley of Mexico.
north_america: Mexico has a per capita GDP (PPP) of $16,111 and as of 2014 is the 15th-largest GDP (nominal) in the world.
north_america: On his subsequent 1569 map, Mercator called North America "America or New India" (America sive India Nova).
north_america: has the largest Christian population in the world, with nearly 247 million Christians (70%), although other countries have higher percentages of Christians among their populations.
north_america: had an estimated per capita gross domestic product (PPP) of $57,466 according to the World Bank, and is the most technologically developed economy of the three.
north_america: Haiti is included with this group based on historical association but Haitians speak both Creole and French.
north_america: Its implementation in 1994 was designed for economic homogenization with hopes of eliminating barriers of trade and foreign investment between Canada, the U.S.
north_america: Mexico can be divided into roughly fifteen physiographic divisions:
north_america: Canada also breaks into the top ten largest metropolitan areas with the Toronto metropolitan area having six million people.
north_america: Other European powers began to intrude on areas claimed by Spain, including the Caribbean islands.
north_america: The first permanent French settlement was in Quebec City, Quebec, established in 1608.
north_america: These urban agglomerations are observed at their largest and most productive in Detroit–Windsor and San Diego–Tijuana and experience large commercial, economic, and cultural activity.
north_america: The 2006 implementation of the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) left the future of the CACM unclear.
north_america: Beginning in 1492, the voyages of Christopher Columbus led to a transatlantic exchange, including migrations of European settlers during the Age of Discovery and the early modern period.
north_america: have significant and multifaceted economic systems.
north_america: North America has also been witness to the growth of megapolitan areas.
north_america: The specifics of the initial settlement of the Americas by ancient Asians are subject to ongoing research and discussion.
north_america: European colonization has led to most North Americans speaking European languages (such as English, Spanish, and French) and the cultures of the region commonly reflect Western traditions.
north_america: border has led to the rise of international metropolitan areas.
north_america: Canada's constitution dates to 1867, with confederation, in the British North America Act, but not until 1982 did Canada have the power to amend its own constitution.
north_america: Present-day cultural and ethnic patterns reflect interactions between early European colonists, indigenous peoples, enslaved Africans, later immigrants from Europe and Asia, and descendants of these respective groups.
north_america: Those with no religious affiliation make up about 24% of Canada's total population.
north_america: As a result of the development of agriculture in the south, many other cultural advances were made there.
north_america: As of 2021, North America's population is estimated at over 592 million people in 23 independent states and territories, or about 7.5% of the world's population.
north_america: Since 1968 the unicameral legislature has been called the Quebec National Assembly.
north_america: with California on the Pacific coast.
north_america: North America is divided linguistically and culturally into two primary regions, Anglo-America and Latin America.
north_america: In 1783, after an eight-year attempt to defeat the American rebellion, King George III acknowledged Britain's defeat in the war, leading to the signing of the Treaty of Paris on 3 September 1783, which solidified the sovereign establishment of the United States.
north_america: However, there remain significant indigenous populations that continue to adhere to their respective pre-colonial cultural and linguistic traditions.
north_america: For example, small Caribbean island-nations, such as Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago, and Antigua and Barbuda, have a higher GDP (PPP) per capita than Mexico due to their smaller populations.
north_america: president, Napoleon Bonaparte sold France's remaining North American territorial claims, which included regions west of the Mississippi River, to the U.S., in the Louisiana Purchase.
north_america: Indigenous peoples with similar languages did not always share the same material culture, however, and were not necessarily always allies.
north_america: In 1507, Waldseemüller published a world map, and placed the word "America" on the continent of present-day South America.
north_america: Nevertheless, the island is highly developed.
north_america: Geographical Survey (USGS) states that the geographic center of North America is "6 miles [10 km] west of Balta, Pierce County, North Dakota" at about 48°10′N 100°10′W, about 24 kilometers (15 mi) from Rugby, North Dakota.
north_america: These metropolitan areas all have a population of above 5.5 million and include the New York City metropolitan area, Los Angeles metropolitan area, Chicago metropolitan area, and the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex.
north_america: Next in size are Los Angeles, Toronto, Chicago, Havana, Santo Domingo, and Montreal.
north_america: The focal point of CAFTA is to create a free trade area similar to that of NAFTA.
north_america: The classic stage followed the Archaic period, and lasted from approximately the 6th to 13th centuries.
north_america: Norse explorer Leif Erikson (c.
north_america: Latino culture is strong in the southwestern United States, as well as in the New York metropolitan area and Florida, which draw Latin Americans from many countries in the Western Hemisphere.
north_america: Economic regions include several regions formalized in 20th- and 21st-century trade agreements, including NAFTA between Canada, Mexico, and the United States, and CAFTA between Central America, the Dominican Republic, and the United States.
north_america: The geographic area that would later become the United States has been the source of more varieties of dinosaurs than any other modern country.
north_america: The United Nations and its statistics division recognize North America as comprising three subregions: Northern America, Central America (which includes Mexico), and the Caribbean.
north_america: The cultures of North America are diverse.
north_america: The nearby, but less-known Temagami Magnetic Anomaly has striking similarities to the Sudbury Basin.
north_america: The highest peak is Denali (also called Mount McKinley) in Alaska.
north_america: Canada's services sector comprises 78% of the country's GDP (estimated in 2010), industry comprises 20% and agriculture comprises 2%.
north_america: Northern Mexico, particularly in the cities of Monterrey, Tijuana, Ciudad Juárez, and Mexicali, is strongly influenced by the culture and way of life of the U.S.
north_america: Flags of North America
List of cities in North America
North American Union – Theoretical Canada-Mexico-US union
Table manners in North America – Etiquette and practices in North America
north_america: In 1538, Gerardus Mercator used the term America on his world map of the entire Western Hemisphere.
north_america: has an ethnically diverse population, and 37 ancestry groups have more than one million members.
north_america: The second-largest country is Mexico with a population of 126 million.
north_america: In 1968, the Arenal Volcano, in Costa Rica, erupted and killed 87 people.
north_america: Lawrence Valley in present-day Canada until after the conclusion of the American Revolutionary War.
north_america: As of 2000, CARICOM trade volume was US$96 billion.
north_america: settled their western boundary dispute in 1819 in the Adams–Onís Treaty.
north_america: Parts of western Mexico, including Baja California, and of California, including the cities of San Diego, Los Angeles, and Santa Cruz, lie on the eastern edge of the Pacific Plate, with the two plates meeting along the San Andreas Fault.
north_america: The United States and Canada have major sports teams that compete against each other, including baseball, basketball, hockey, and soccer/football.
north_america: Anthropologists speculate that the Inuit of the high Arctic arrived in North America much later than other native groups, evidenced by the disappearance of Dorset culture artifacts from the archaeological record and their replacement by the Thule people.
north_america: The continental coastline is long and irregular.
north_america: In Detroit-Windsor the Border Transportation Partnership study in 2004 concluded US$13 billion was dependent on the Detroit–Windsor international border crossing while in San Diego–Tijuana freight at the Otay Mesa Port of Entry was valued at US$20 billion.
north_america: People are known to have lived in the Americas at least 20,000 years ago, but various evidence points to possibly earlier dates.
north_america: Demographically, North America is ethnically diverse.
north_america: hosts the largest Muslim population in North America with 2.7 million or 0.9%, while Canada hosts about one million Muslims or 3.2% of the population.
north_america: Retrieved March 25, 2023.
north_america: The countries of NAFTA are also some of each other's largest trade partners.
north_america: by the Thule people.
north_america: Canada's per capita GDP (PPP) was estimated at $44,656 and it had the 11th-largest GDP (nominal) in 2014.
north_america: In 2012, U-T San Diego estimated U.S.
north_america: Mexico, with its long plateaus and cordilleras, falls largely in the western region, although the eastern coastal plain does extend south along the Gulf.
north_america: is the largest trade partner of Canada and Mexico, while Canada and Mexico are each other's third-largest trade partners.
north_america: Canada is the third-most-populous country with 41.5 million.
north_america: The Pan-American Highway route in the Americas is the portion of a network of roads nearly 48,000 km (30,000 mi) in length which travels through the mainland nations.
north_america: Norse exploration and colonization began in the late 10th century; the Norse built several settlements in Greenland and at least one settlement in Newfoundland.
north_america: John's, Newfoundland in 1630 and Halifax, Nova Scotia in 1749.
north_america: These cities are the only cities on the continent to exceed eight million, and two of three in the Americas.
north_america: Numerous overland explorations associated with voyageurs, fur trade, and U.S.
north_america: In the limited context of regional trade agreements such as NAFTA, the term is used to reference three countries: Canada, Mexico, and the United States.
north_america: According to the same study, the religiously unaffiliated (including agnostics and atheists) make up about 17% of the population of Canada and the U.S.
north_america: The Columbia Gazetteer of the World Online Archived 1 September 2006 at the Wayback Machine Columbia University Press
"Colonial North America at Harvard Library".
north_america: In 2016, the U.S.
north_america: It is unknown exactly how and when the first human populations reached North America.
north_america: and its territories, Canada, Bermuda, and 17 Caribbean nations.
north_america: In Quebec, the provincial government established the Quebec Office of the French Language, often called the "language police" by Anglophones, which mandates the use of French terminology and signage in French.
north_america: takes part in two.
north_america: Anglophone education in Quebec has been increasingly undermined.
north_america: The southern portion of North America includes Central America and non-English-speaking Caribbean nations.
north_america: Much of the Mesozoic Era is represented by exposed outcrops in the many arid regions of the continent.
north_america: Monterrey, a modern city with a significant industrial group, has been regarded as the most Americanized city in Mexico.
north_america: The Central American Free Trade Agreement was signed by five Central American countries, the Dominican Republic, and the U.S.
north_america: The continent north of present-day Mexico was then referred to as Parias.
north_america: The English sport of cricket is popular in parts of anglophone Canada and very popular in parts of the former British empire, but in Canada is considered a minor sport.
north_america: During the so-called Age of Discovery, Europeans explored overseas and staked claims to various parts of North America, much of which was already settled by indigenous peoples.
north_america: It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean, to the east by the Atlantic Ocean, to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea, and to the south and west by the Pacific Ocean.
north_america: The Gulf of Mexico is the largest body of water indenting the continent, followed by Hudson Bay.
north_america: The more southern cultural groups of North America were responsible for the domestication of many common crops now used around the world, such as tomatoes, squash, and maize.
north_america: With the British victory in the Seven Years' War, France in 1763 ceded to Britain its claims of North American territories east of the Mississippi River.
north_america: sought to dig a canal across the Isthmus of Panama in present-day Panama in Central America, then a part of present-day Colombia.
north_america: One of the results of the formation of Pangaea was the Appalachian Mountains, which formed some 480 mya, making it among the oldest mountain ranges in the world.
north_america: An expedition under the command of Spanish settler, Hernán Cortés, sailed westward in 1519 to what turned out to be the mainland in Mexico.
north_america: French colonists settled Illinois Country after several generations of experience on North America, migrating over the Mississippi River to regions where Spain was not present and where they were able to leverage their earlier Louisiana French settlements around the Gulf of Mexico.
north_america: As the American Revolutionary War progressed, France and Spain, both then enemies of Britain, began to ultimately see the promise of a potential American victory in the war and began supporting Washington and the American Revolutionary cause.
north_america: The vast majority of North America is on the North American Plate.
north_america: As the colonial period unfolded, Spain, England, and France appropriated and claimed extensive territories on North America's eastern and southern coastlines.
north_america: In the U.S., they include New England, the Mid-Atlantic, and the South Atlantic, East North Central, West North Central, East South Central, West South Central, Mountain, and Pacific states.
north_america: The oldest petroglyphs in North America date from 15,000 to 10,000 years before present.
north_america: The following table shows the most prominent sports leagues in North America, in order of average revenue.
north_america: Highland climates cut from north to south of the continent, where subtropical or temperate climates occur just below the tropics, as in central Mexico and Guatemala.
north_america: The first recorded European references to North America are in Norse sagas where it is referred to as Vinland.
north_america: was built in the 1860s, linking the railroad network of the eastern U.S.
north_america: CARICOM also allowed for the creation of a common passport for associated nations.
north_america: The indigenous population declined substantially following European arrival, primarily due to the introduction of Eurasian diseases, such as smallpox, to which the indigenous peoples lacked immunity, and because of violent conflicts with Europeans.
north_america: Sudbury is an exception to the normal process of forming minerals in the Shield since there is significant evidence that the Sudbury Basin is an ancient meteorite impact crater.
north_america: The southernmost portion of the continent and much of the West Indies lie on the Caribbean Plate, whereas the Juan de Fuca Plate and Cocos Plate border the North American Plate on its western frontier.
north_america: While the majority of the largest metropolitan areas are within the U.S., Mexico is host to the largest metropolitan area by population in North America: Greater Mexico City.
north_america: The Native American game of lacrosse is considered a national sport in Canada.
north_america: aided Panamanians in a war that resulted in its separation from Colombia.
north_america: By the late 18th century, Russia was established on the Pacific Northwest northern coastline, where it was engaged in maritime fur trade and was supported by various indigenous settlements in the region.
north_america: Integration of Central American economies occurred under the signing of the Central American Common Market agreement in 1961; this was the first attempt to engage the nations of this area into stronger financial cooperation.
north_america: North America includes several regions and subregions, each of which have their own respective cultural, economic, and geographic regions.
north_america: North America's only land connection to South America is in present-day Panama at the Darien Gap on the Colombia–Panama border, placing almost all of Panama within North America.
north_america: Canada is geologically one of the oldest regions in the world, with more than half of the region consisting of Precambrian rocks that have been above sea level since the beginning of the Palaeozoic era.
north_america: Its main sources of income are oil, industrial exports, manufactured goods, electronics, heavy industry, automobiles, construction, food, banking and financial services.
north_america: Britain took Barbados and Jamaica, and the Dutch and Danes took islands previously claimed by Spain.
north_america: In the Declaration, the thirteen colonies declared their independence from the British monarchy, then governed by King George III, and detailed the factors that contributed to their decision.
north_america: Map makers later extended the name America to North America.
north_america: In 2018, the NAFTA was replaced by the U.S.–Mexico–Canada Agreement (USMCA).
north_america: They lived in several culture areas, which roughly correspond to geographic and biological zones that defined the representative cultures and lifestyles of the indigenous people who lived there, including the bison hunters of the Great Plains and the farmers of Mesoamerica.
north_america: Canada can be divided into roughly seven physiographic divisions:
north_america: The free-trade agreement allowed for the elimination of tariffs that had previously been in place on U.S.–Mexico trade.
north_america: The first Spanish settlements were attempted in Alta California during that period.
north_america: The United States and English Canada have many cultural similarities, while French Canada has a distinct culture from Anglophone Canada that is protected by law.
north_america: has the largest economy in the world.
north_america: 9550–9050 BCE) in modern New Mexico.
north_america: The Americas were named after the Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci by German cartographers Martin Waldseemüller and Matthias Ringmann.
north_america: state of Louisiana, where French is also an official language.
north_america: The Mayans developed a writing system, built huge pyramids and temples, had a complex calendar, and developed the concept of zero around 400 CE.
north_america: and Canadian governments have never officially defined any specific routes as being part of the Pan-American Highway, and Mexico officially has many branches connecting to the U.S.
north_america: The north of the continent maintains recognized regions as well.
north_america: A significant number of indigenous languages are spoken in North America, with roughly 6 million in Mexico speaking an indigenous language at home, 372,000 people in the U.S., and about 225,000 in Canada.
north_america: Christianity is the largest religion in the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
north_america: Several linguistic groups died out, and others changed quite quickly.
north_america: Spain and the U.S.
north_america: states can be divided into roughly eight physiographic divisions:
north_america: While the U.S., Canada, and Mexico maintain the largest populations, large city populations are not restricted to those nations.
north_america: Britain's early settlements in present-day Canada included St.
north_america: Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day, 24 June, is the national holiday of Quebec and is celebrated by francophone Canadians throughout Canada.
north_america: North America covers an area of around 24,709,000 square kilometers (9,540,000 square miles), representing approximately 16.5% of Earth's land area and 4.8% of its total surface area.
north_america: The Interior Plains
The Atlantic Plain
The Appalachian highlands
The Interior highlands
The Rocky Mountain system
The Pacific Mountain system
north_america: Valleys are also suitable for the production of coffee, beans, and other crops.
north_america: The Catholic Church remained an important institution, so that even after political independence, Roman Catholicism remained the dominant religion.
north_america: trade relations already allowed trade without national taxes and tariffs, NAFTA allowed Mexico to experience a similar duty-free trade.
north_america: with 342.9 million persons.
north_america: France took the western half of Hispaniola and developed Saint-Domingue as a cane sugar producing colony worked by black slave labor.
north_america: already conducted the largest bilateral trade relationship—and to present day still do—in the world and Canada–U.S.
north_america: In the U.S.
north_america: In Quebec, the school system was divided into Catholic and Protestant, so-called confessional schools.
north_america: North America is the third-largest continent by area after Asia and Africa.
north_america: Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard Library.
north_america: Once Spaniards conquered the high civilization of the Aztecs and Incas, the Caribbean was a backwater of the Spanish empire.
north_america: Greenland has a small population of 55,984 for its massive size (2.166 million km2 or 836,300 mi2), and therefore, it has the world's lowest population density at 0.026 pop./km2 (0.067 pop./mi2).
north_america: These areas are those under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM), and the Central American Common Market (CACM).
north_america: Volcanic eruptions are common in the region.
north_america: LCCN 2019234716.
north_america: Lawrence Lowlands
The Appalachian region
The Western Cordillera
Hudson Bay Lowlands
Arctic Archipelago
north_america: 970–1020 CE) is thought to have visited the area.
north_america: The distinctiveness of French language and culture has been codified in Canadian law, so that both English and French are designated official languages.
north_america: The countries of Central America and the Caribbean are at various levels of economic and human development.
north_america: The Spanish Empire called its territories in North and South America "Las Indias", and the name given to the state body that oversaw the region was called the Council of the Indies.
north_america: 19 (11th ed.).
north_america: Therefore, Greenland shares some cultural ties with the indigenous peoples of Canada.
north_america: Archived from the original on March 25, 2023.
north_america: Beginning with the Spanish colonization of Mexico in the 16th century, Roman Catholicism was the only religion permitted by Spanish crown and Catholic church.
north_america: exhibits significant Hispanic cultural elements and traditions and considerable bilingualism.
north_america: This tundra radiates throughout Canada, but its border ends near the Rocky Mountains (but still contains Alaska) and at the end of the Canadian Shield, near the Great Lakes.
north_america: The Inquisition was established to assure orthodox belief and practice.
north_america: Additionally, despite Greenland's vast resources in oil and minerals, much of them remain untapped, and the island is economically dependent on fishing, tourism, and subsidies from Denmark.
north_america: Cities near the U.S.
north_america: state of Alaska, to the U.S.
north_america: Greenland, along with the Canadian Shield, is tundra with average temperatures ranging from 10 to 20 °C (50 to 68 °F), but central Greenland is composed of a very large ice sheet.
north_america: The Canadian Grand Trunk Railway had, by 1867, already accumulated more than 2,055 km (1,277 mi) of track by connecting Ontario with the Canadian Atlantic provinces west as far as Port Huron, Michigan, through Sarnia, Ontario.
north_america: Tropical climates appear in the island regions and in the subcontinent's bottleneck, found in countries and states bathed by the Caribbean Sea or to the south of the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Ocean.
north_america: Eight of the top ten metropolitan areas are located in the U.S.
north_america: No definitive length of the Pan-American Highway exists because the U.S.
north_america: Americus originated from Medieval Latin Emericus (see Saint Emeric of Hungary), coming from the Old High German name Emmerich.
north_america: However, Bermuda is often thought of as part of North America, especially given its historical, political and cultural ties to Virginia and other parts of the continent.
north_america: A vast campaign of religious conversion, the so-called "spiritual conquest", was launched to bring the indigenous peoples into the Christian fold.
north_america: According to a 2012 Pew Research Center survey, 77% of the population considered themselves Christians.
north_america: Following the early Archaic period, major regional developments included the Mississippian culture (spanning the Mississippi River valley with platform-mound urban centers) and the Ancestral Puebloans of the Four Corners region.
north_america: Canada shows significant growth in the sectors of services, mining and manufacturing.
north_america: The continent includes the subregions of Northern America (comprising Canada, Greenland, and the continental United States as well as the insular territories of Bermuda and Saint Pierre and Miquelon) and Middle America (comprising Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean).
north_america: Stretching from the East Coast to eastern North Dakota, and stretching down to Kansas, is the humid continental climate featuring intense seasons, with a large amount of annual precipitation, with places like New York City averaging 50 in (1,300 mm).
north_america: Prior to the arrival of European explorers and colonists in North America, the natives of North America were divided into many different polities, ranging from small bands of a few families to large empires.
north_america: The site, situated at the northernmost extent of the island named Newfoundland, has provided unmistakable evidence of Norse settlement.
north_america: Spain then established permanent cities in Mexico, Central America, and Spanish South America in the sixteenth century.
north_america: Precipitation patterns vary across the region, and as such rainforest, monsoon, and savanna types can be found, with rains and high temperatures throughout the year.
north_america: Much of the indigenous population died due to disease and overwork, spurring the Spaniards on to claim new lands and peoples.
north_america: In Mexico there were 3,700 Muslims in 2010.
north_america: The largest cities in North America, by far, are Mexico City and New York City.
north_america: This is partly due to the relatively small populations of the English-speaking Caribbean countries, and also because many of them now have more people living abroad than those remaining at home.
north_america: Notable plants that were domesticated in North America include tobacco, maize, squash, tomato, sunflower, blueberry, avocado, cotton, chile pepper, and vanilla.
north_america: Danish is prevalent in Greenland alongside Greenlandic, and Dutch is spoken side by side local languages in the Dutch Caribbean.
north_america: However, they share with the United States the establishment of post-independence governments that are federated representative republics with written constitutions dating from their founding as nations.
north_america: and Canada.
north_america: There are also regions, including Louisiana and Quebec, with large Francophone populations; in Quebec and Saint Pierre and Miquelon, French is the official language..
north_america: In human geography, the terms "North America" and "North American" often refer to just Northern America.
north_america: As a result, the Spanish were showing more interest in controlling the trade on the Pacific coast and mapped most of its coastline.
north_america: Mexico has the world's second-largest number of Catholics, surpassed only by Brazil.
north_america: Pierre and Miquelon.
north_america: The NAFTA trade bloc GDP (PPP) is the world's largest with US$17.617 trillion.
north_america: North America's largest countries by land area are Canada and the U.S., both of which have well-defined and recognized subregions.
north_america: In 1867, colonial settlers north of the United States, unified as the dominion of Canada.
north_america: A growing viewpoint is that the first American inhabitants sailed from Beringia some 13,000 years ago, with widespread habitation of the Americas during the end of the Last Glacial Period, in what is known as the Late Glacial Maximum, around 12,500 years ago.
north_america: Although an accomplishment, it achieved the status of first transcontinental railroad by connecting myriad eastern U.S.
north_america: The first permanent English settlement was in Jamestown, Virginia in 1607, followed by additional colonial establishments on the east coast from present-day Georgia in the south to Massachusetts in the north, forming the Thirteen Colonies of British America.
north_america: Trade volume has steadily increased annually and in 2010, surface trade between the three NAFTA nations reached an all-time historical increase of 24.3% or US$791 billion.
north_america: The Anglophone Caribbean states have witnessed and participated in the decline of the British Empire and its influence on the region, as well as the increase in the economic influence of Northern America over the Anglophone Caribbean.
north_america: The U.S.'s services sector comprises 77% of the country's GDP (estimated in 2010), industry comprises 22% and agriculture comprises 1.2%.
north_america: The metropolitan areas are responsible for millions of dollars of trade dependent on international freight.
north_america: Spain, in turn, gained rights to the territories west of Mississippi, which then served as a border between Spain and Britain's territorial claims.
north_america: After decades of work, the Panama Canal was completed, which connected the Atlantic and Pacific oceans in 1913 and greatly facilitated global shipping navigation.
north_america: The Rockies and other western mountain ranges began forming around this time from a period of mountain building called the Laramide orogeny, between 80 and 55 mya.
north_america: With local indigenous allies, the Spanish conquered the Aztec empire in central Mexico in 1521.
north_america: Genetic research and anthropology indicate additional waves of migration from Asia via the Bering Strait during the Early-Middle Holocene.
north_america: The geology of Alaska is typical of that of the cordillera, while the major islands of Hawaii consist of Neogene volcanics erupted over a hot spot.
north_america: The traditional theory has been that hunters entered the Bering Land Bridge between eastern Siberia and present-day Alaska from 27,000 to 14,000 years ago.
north_america: The lower 48 U.S.
north_america: One of the oldest yet discovered is the Clovis culture (c.
north_america: The dominant languages in North America are English, Spanish, and French.
north_america: In contrast to the common definition of North America, which encompasses the whole North American continent, the term "North America" is sometimes used more narrowly to refer only to four nations, Canada, Greenland, Mexico, and the U.S.
north_america: led expeditions, including the Lewis and Clark, Frémont and Wilkes expeditions, reached the Pacific.
north_america: North America is a continent in the Northern and Western hemispheres.
north_america: North America is the source of much of what humanity knows about geologic time periods.
north_america: The Intermontane Plateaus
The Laurentian Upland, part of the Canadian Shield Northern portion of the upper midwestern U.S.
north_america: Alternatively, some geologists physiographically locate its southern limit at the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Mexico, with Central America extending southeastward to South America from this point.
north_america: However, the total length of the portion from Mexico to the northern extremity of the highway is roughly 26,000 km (16,000 mi).
north_america: The Paleo-Indian period in North America followed the Last Glacial Period, and lasted until about 10,000 years ago when the Archaic period began.
north_america: According to paleontologist Peter Dodson, this is primarily due to stratigraphy, climate and geography, human resources, and history.
north_america: The North American continental pole of inaccessibility is located 1,650 km (1,030 mi) from the nearest coastline, between Allen and Kyle, South Dakota at 43.36°N 101.97°W﻿ / 43.36; -101.97﻿ (Pole of Inaccessibility North America).
north_america: These early French settlers partnered with midwest indigenous tribes, and their mixed ancestry descendants later followed a westward expansion all the way to the Pacific Ocean on the present-day U.S.
north_america: It is the third-largest continent by size after Asia and Africa, and the fourth-largest continent by population after Asia, Africa, and Europe.
north_america: The Caribbean trade bloc (CARICOM) came into agreement in 1973 when it was signed by 15 Caribbean nations.
north_america: Encyclopædia Britannica.
north_america: In addition to the U.S., Canada also has relations in Central American trade blocs.
north_america: Mexico fought a lengthy war for independence from Spain, winning it for Mexico (which included Central America at the time) in 1821.
north_america: Mexico takes a part in the G3 Free Trade Agreement with Colombia and Venezuela and has a trade agreement with the EU.
north_america: The largest number of Jews can be found in the U.S.
north_america: Canada's mineral resources are diverse and extensive.
north_america: Much of the area was in fact dominated by indigenous peoples, which did not recognize the claims of Spain, France, or the U.S.
north_america: subsequently carved out the Panama Canal Zone, and claimed sovereignty over it.
north_america: Being a newly industrialized country, Mexico maintains both modern and outdated industrial and agricultural facilities and operations.
north_america: Canada and the United States are the wealthiest and most developed nations on the continent followed by Mexico, a newly industrialized country.
north_america: has no official language, but its national language is English.
north_america: Across the Canadian Shield and in the north there are large iron, nickel, zinc, copper, gold, lead, molybdenum, and uranium reserves.
north_america: practitioners of Buddhism at 1.2 million people, of whom 40% are living in Southern California.
north_america: Canada is a federated parliamentary democracy under a constitutional monarchy.
north_america: Other religious groups in the region are Hinduism, Islam, Rastafari (in Jamaica), and Afro-American religions such as Santería and Vodou.
north_america: The Quebec Act guaranteed the freedom of Catholic Francophone Canadians to practice their religion, restored the right of the Catholic Church to impose tithes for its support, and established French civil law in most circumstances.
north_america: Christianity is also the predominant religion in the Caribbean (85%).
north_america: The formation of the Isthmus of Panama that connected the continent to South America arguably occurred approximately 12 to 15 mya, and the Great Lakes (as well as many other northern freshwater lakes and rivers) were carved by receding glaciers about 10,000 years ago.
north_america: Fertile soils from weathered volcanic lavas have made it possible to sustain dense populations in agriculturally productive highland areas.
north_america: Gathered in Philadelphia following the war's outbreak, delegates from the thirteen colonies established the Continental Army from various patriot militias then engaged in resisting the British, and appointed George Washington as the Continental Army's military commander.
north_america: Most notable is Tijuana, a city bordering San Diego that receives immigrants from all over Latin America and parts of Europe and Asia.
north_america: Canada has a separate Canadian Football League from the U.S.
north_america: Since the United States was formed from portions previously part of the Spanish Empire and then independent Mexico, and since there has been considerable and continuing immigration of Spanish speakers from south of the U.S.–Mexico border, the Southwest of the U.S.
north_america: Census Bureau includes Saint Pierre and Miquelon, but excludes Mexico from its definition.
north_america: While Canada and the U.S.
north_america: The first transcontinental railroad in the U.S.
north_america: North America's GDP per capita was evaluated in October 2016 by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to be $41,830, making it the richest continent in the world, followed by Oceania.
north_america: The majority of Caribbean island-nations have national populations under a million, though Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Puerto Rico (a territory of the U.S.), Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago each have populations higher than a million.
north_america: North America is a very large continent that extends from north of the Arctic Circle to south of the Tropic of Cancer.
north_america: Waldseemüller used the Latinized version of Vespucci's name, Americus Vespucius, in its feminine form of "America", following the examples of "Europa", "Asia", and "Africa".
north_america: The United States includes eleven megaregions.
north_america: The Aztecs were conquered in 1521 by Hernán Cortés.
north_america: Boxing is also a major sport in some countries, such as Mexico, Panama and Puerto Rico, and it is considered one of the main individual sports in the United States.
north_america: Canada is officially bilingual.
north_america: Large diamond concentrations have been recently developed in the Arctic, making Canada one of the world's largest producers.
north_america: Greenland has experienced many immigration waves from Northern Canada, e.g.
north_america: The term Northern America refers to the northernmost countries and territories of North America: the U.S., Bermuda, Canada, Greenland, and St.
north_america: NAFTA formed one of the four largest trade blocs in the world.
north_america: Starting at the southern border of the humid continental climate and stretching to the Gulf of Mexico (while encompassing the eastern half of Texas) is the humid subtropical climate.
north_america: When Pangaea began to rift around 200 mya, North America became part of Laurasia, before it separated from Eurasia as its own continent during the mid-Cretaceous period.
north_america: North America occupies the northern portion of the landmass generally referred to as the New World, the Western Hemisphere, the Americas, or simply America, which, in many countries, is considered a single continent with North America a subcontinent.
north_america: sought further westward expansion and fought the Mexican–American War, gaining a vast territory that first Spain and then Mexico claimed but which they did not effectively control.
north_america: The earliest verifiable instance of pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact by any European culture with the North America mainland has been dated to around 1000 CE.
north_america: The predominant religion in Mexico and Central America is Christianity (96%).
north_america: Stretching from the borders of the humid continental and subtropical climates, and going west to the Sierra Nevada, south to the southern tip of Durango, north to the border with tundra climate, the steppe/desert climates are the driest in the U.S.
north_america: Its most populous country is the U.S.
north_america: economy is also the fastest-growing economy in North America and the Americas as a whole, with the highest GDP per capita in the Americas as well.
north_america: Similarly, French and French Antillean Creole is spoken in Saint Lucia and the Commonwealth of Dominica alongside English.
north_america: Between the mountain ranges lie fertile valleys that are suitable for the people; in fact, most of the population of Honduras, Costa Rica, and Guatemala live in valleys.
north_america: The Canadian Shield is the largest exposure of this craton.
north_america: The Shield is also covered by vast boreal forests that support an important logging industry.
north_america: Since the 1960s, there has been an increase in other Christian groups, particularly Protestantism, as well as other religious organizations, and individuals identifying themselves as having no religion.
north_america: The British Army, in turn, was supported by Hessian military units from present-day Germany.
