obesity: This is a comprehensive evidence-based guideline to address the management and prevention of overweight and obesity in adults and children.
obesity: As societies become increasingly reliant on calorie-dense, big-portions, and fast-food meals, the association between fast-food consumption and obesity becomes more concerning.
obesity: Those who quit smoking gain an average of 4.4 kilograms (9.7 lb) for men and 5.0 kilograms (11.0 lb) for women over ten years.
obesity: Some research shows that people with obesity are less likely to be hired for a job and are less likely to be promoted.
obesity: Other research suggests that the association of BMI and waist circumference with mortality is U- or J-shaped, while the association between waist-to-hip ratio and waist-to-height ratio with mortality is more positive.
obesity: In low-income countries, obesity can be a signal of wealth.
obesity: Efforts also exist to address the occurrence of food swamps, or areas with an overabundance of convenient or fast food options, as these has been found to be strongly predictive of obesity rates.
obesity: Endocrine changes that occur during periods of malnutrition may promote the storage of fat once more food energy becomes available.
obesity: The World Health Organization, the US, Canada, Japan, Portugal, Germany, the European Parliament and medical societies (such as the American Medical Association) classify obesity as a disease.
obesity: Agricultural policy and techniques in the United States and Europe have led to lower food prices.
obesity: The Obesity Policy Action (OPA) framework divides measure into upstream policies, midstream policies, and downstream policies.
obesity: Gut flora has been shown to differ between lean and obese people.
obesity: Public perceptions in Western society regarding healthy body weight differ from those regarding the weight that is considered ideal – and both have changed since the beginning of the 20th century.
obesity: adults 20 and over was 41.9% during 2017–March 2020  in which during the same time, the prevalence of severe obesity among U.S.
obesity: They have increased in prominence in the latter half of the 20th century.
obesity: Decreased intake of sweet drinks is also related to weight-loss.
obesity: In people with heart failure, those with a BMI between 30.0 and 34.9 had lower mortality than those with a normal weight.
obesity: A similar relationship is seen among US states: more adults, even in higher social classes, are obese in more unequal states.
obesity: While the underlying biology of this process still remains uncertain, research is beginning to clarify the mechanisms.
obesity: These comorbidities are most commonly shown in metabolic syndrome, a combination of medical disorders which includes: diabetes mellitus type 2, high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, and high triglyceride levels.
obesity: For children under five, the WHO defines obesity as a weight three standard deviations above the median for their height.
obesity: adults was 9.2%.
obesity: This is illustrated by the fact that the average height of Miss America pageant winners increased by 2% from 1922 to 1999, while their average weight decreased by 12%.
obesity: Obesity is a major feature in several syndromes, such as Prader–Willi syndrome, Bardet–Biedl syndrome, Cohen syndrome, and MOMO syndrome.
obesity: However, changing rates of smoking have had little effect on the overall rates of obesity.
obesity: While the prevalence of adult obesity in the United States of America is the thirteenth-largest in the world (42.0 percent), the country is home to the largest number of obese adults due to its large population, accounting for one-eighth of the global total.
obesity: The International Size Acceptance Association (ISAA) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) which was founded in 1997.
obesity: There are a number of theories as to the cause but most believe it is a combination of various factors.
obesity: (The term "non-syndromic obesity" is sometimes used to exclude these conditions.) In people with early-onset severe obesity (defined by an onset before 10 years of age and body mass index over three standard deviations above normal), 7% harbor a single point DNA mutation.
obesity: However, their mean body fat percentage, 14%, is well within what is considered a healthy range.
obesity: Many explanations have been put forth for associations between BMI and social class.
obesity: Litigation accusing restaurants of causing obesity  increases restaurant costs.
obesity: In Tonga (71.7 percent), Nauru (69.9 percent), Tuvalu (64.2 percent) and Samoa (62.4 percent), 60 percent or more of the adult population is obese.
obesity: If diet, exercise, and medication are not effective, a gastric balloon or surgery may be performed to reduce stomach volume or length of the intestines, leading to earlier satiety, or a reduced ability to absorb nutrients from food.
obesity: These increases have been felt most dramatically in urban settings.
obesity: People of all ages can face social stigmatization and may be targeted by bullies or shunned by their peers.
obesity: In the United States, the number of children a person has is related to their risk of obesity.
obesity: The circuit begins with an area of the hypothalamus, the arcuate nucleus, that has outputs to the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), the brain's feeding and satiety centers, respectively.
obesity: Another identification metric for health in obese people is calf strength, which is positively correlated with physical fitness in obese people.
obesity: World trends in active leisure time physical activity are less clear.
obesity: In the developing world, women, men, and children from high social classes had greater rates of obesity.
obesity: High BMI is a marker of risk for, but not a direct cause of, diseases caused by diet and physical activity.
obesity: However, these conclusions were from low certainty evidence.
obesity: In 2014, The European Court of Justice ruled that morbid obesity is a disability.
obesity: This could be partly explained by the fact that having dependent children decreases physical activity in Western parents.
obesity: In the United States, 23–41% of dogs are overweight, and about 5.1% are obese.
obesity: The risk of overweight and obesity is higher in patients with psychiatric disorders than in persons without psychiatric disorders.
obesity: Leptin inhibits the NPY/AgRP group while stimulating the POMC/CART group.
obesity: Obesity is often stigmatized in many parts of the world.
obesity: In a 2026 commentary on the Frank et al.
obesity: This has been attributed to the fact that people often lose weight as they become progressively more ill.
obesity: During the same period, an increase occurred in the average amount of food energy consumed.
obesity: The total annual direct cost of overweight and obesity in Australia in 2005 was A$21 billion.
obesity: Complications may be either directly caused by obesity or indirectly related through mechanisms sharing a common cause such as a poor diet or a sedentary lifestyle.
obesity: authored another highly cited (over 2,200 citations) study on the link between urban design (or the built environment) and health: Linking Objectively Measured Physical Activity with Objectively Measured Urban Form.
obesity: Vitamin D deficiency is related to diseases associated with obesity.
obesity: After centuries of obesity being synonymous with wealth and social status, slimness began to be seen as the desirable standard.
obesity: These changes are believed to be due to increasing rates of adiposity leading to increased acceptance of extra body fat as being normal.
obesity: The paradox was first described in 1999 in overweight and obese people undergoing hemodialysis and has subsequently been found in those with heart failure and peripheral artery disease (PAD).
obesity: farm bill has made the main sources of processed food cheap compared to fruits and vegetables.
obesity: The correlation between social class and BMI varies globally.
obesity: Globally there are more obese women than men, but the numbers differ depending on how obesity is measured.
obesity: In the United States, consumption of fast-food meals tripled and food energy intake from these meals quadrupled between 1977 and 1995.
obesity: Licensed under CC BY 4.0 (license statement/permission).
obesity: During the Renaissance some of the upper class began flaunting their large size, as can be seen in portraits of Henry VIII of England and Alessandro dal Borro.
obesity: Obesity is more common in women than in men.
obesity: They created a walkability index for various Atlanta communities and found that participants in the most walkable areas were 2.4 times more likely to get recommended amounts of physical activity.
obesity: The most common injuries in this group were due to falls and lifting, thus affecting the lower extremities, wrists or hands, and backs.
obesity: Conversely, some cultures, past and present, have a favorable view of obesity, seeing it as a symbol of wealth and fertility.
obesity: The mortality risk is lowest at a BMI of 20–25 kg/m2 in non-smokers and at 24–27 kg/m2 in current smokers, with risk increasing along with changes in either direction.
obesity: Dietary and lifestyle changes are effective in limiting excessive weight gain in pregnancy and improve outcomes for both the mother and the child.
obesity: Obesity and depression influence each other mutually, with obesity increasing the risk of clinical depression, and also depression leading to a higher chance of developing obesity.
obesity: For women, the average increase was 335 calories (1,400 kJ) per day (1,542 calories (6,450 kJ) in 1971 and 1,877 calories (7,850 kJ) in 2004), while for men the average increase was 168 calories (700 kJ) per day (2,450 calories (10,300 kJ) in 1971 and 2,618 calories (10,950 kJ) in 2004).
obesity: In his 1819 print, The Belle Alliance, or the Female Reformers of Blackburn!!!, artist George Cruikshank criticised the work of female reformers in Blackburn and used fatness as a means to portray them as unfeminine.
obesity: Other definitions of metabolically healthy obesity exist, including ones based on waist circumference rather than BMI, which is unreliable in certain individuals.
obesity: Stress and perceived low social status appear to increase risk of obesity.
obesity: This is supported both by tests of people carried out in a calorimeter room and by direct observation.
obesity: The types of procedures include laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, vertical-sleeve gastrectomy, and biliopancreatic diversion.
obesity: Upstream policies have to do with changing society, while midstream policies try to alter behaviors believed to contribute to obesity at the individual level, while downstream policies treat currently obese people.
obesity: For adults, the World Health Organization (WHO) defines "overweight" as a BMI 25 or higher, and "obesity" as a BMI 30 or higher.
obesity: The study of the effect of infectious agents on metabolism is still in its early stages.
obesity: On the other hand, people's views concerning healthy weight have changed in the opposite direction.
obesity: Preventing obesity requires a multifaceted approach, including interventions at medical, societal, community, family, and individual levels.
obesity: In the UK, there were 60% more obese children in 2005 compared to 1989.
obesity: Efforts include federally reimbursed meal programs in schools, limiting direct junk food marketing to children, and decreasing access to sugar-sweetened beverages in schools.
obesity: In 2000, the World Health Organization (WHO) stated that overweight and obesity were replacing more traditional public health concerns such as undernutrition and infectious diseases as one of the most significant cause of poor health.
obesity: A woman's risk increases by 7% per child, while a man's risk increases by 4% per child.
obesity: In both children and adults, there is an association between television viewing time and the risk of obesity.
obesity: Canada utilises BMI sparingly within their method of defining levels of obesity through use of the Edmonton Scale (for adult obesity).
obesity: The rate of obesity also increases with age at least up to 50 or 60 years old and severe obesity in the United States, Australia, and Canada is increasing faster than the overall rate of obesity.
obesity: The principal goal of the fat acceptance movement is to decrease discrimination against people who are overweight and obese.
obesity: Even after cardiac bypass surgery, no increase in mortality is seen in the overweight and obese.
obesity: In 1998, the first US Federal guidelines were published, titled "Clinical Guidelines on the Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults: The Evidence Report".
obesity: When compared to placebo, all dosages of fluoxetine appeared to contribute to weight loss but lead to increased risk of experiencing side effects such as dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, insomnia and nausea during period of treatment.
obesity: During Christian times, food was viewed as a gateway to the sins of sloth and lust.
obesity: Nolan describes it as: ...
obesity: Frank in 2004: Obesity Relationships with Community Design, Physical Activity, and Time Spent in Cars.
obesity: For people who gain weight because of clozapine, taking metformin may reportedly improve three of the five components of the metabolic syndrome: waist circumference, fasting glucose, and fasting triglycerides.
obesity: The AMA classification is not legally binding, however, so health insurers still have the right to reject coverage for a treatment or procedure.
obesity: In the 1950s, increasing wealth in the developed world decreased child mortality, but as body weight increased, heart and kidney disease became more common.
obesity: The amount that these associations may have contributed to the rising rate of obesity is yet to be determined.
obesity: Several hypo-caloric diets are effective.
obesity: It has also changed significantly over time.
obesity: Height and weight thus both increased through the 19th century in the developed world.
obesity: People are classified as obese when their body mass index (BMI)—a person's weight divided by the square of the person's height—is over 30 kg/m2; the range 25–30 kg/m2 is defined as overweight.
obesity: Obesity is a leading preventable cause of death worldwide, with increasing rates in adults and children.
obesity: In 2004, the United Kingdom Royal College of Physicians, the Faculty of Public Health and the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health released the report "Storing up Problems", which highlighted the growing problem of obesity in the UK.
obesity: Calorie count laws and nutrition facts labels attempt to steer people toward making healthier food choices, including awareness of how much food energy is being consumed.
obesity: In relation to globalization, it is known that trade liberalization is linked to obesity; research, based on data from 175 countries during 1975–2016, showed that obesity prevalence was positively correlated with trade openness, and the correlation was stronger in developing countries.
obesity: Attitudes toward body weight held by people in one's life may also play a role in obesity.
obesity: Rates of obesity in Canadian boys have increased from 11% in the 1980s to over 30% in the 1990s, while during this same time period rates increased from 4 to 14% in Brazilian children.
obesity: The first group coexpresses neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and has stimulatory inputs to the LH and inhibitory inputs to the VMH.
obesity: The global prevalence of obesity more than doubled between 1980 and 2014.
obesity: A 2023 experimental study found that obese individuals in Uganda were more likely to access credit.
obesity: However, the longer people live, the more medical costs they incur.
obesity: Their ability to take advantage of rare periods of abundance by storing energy as fat would be advantageous during times of varying food availability, and individuals with greater adipose reserves would be more likely to survive famine.
obesity: When constructing urban environments, efforts have been made to increase access to parks and to develop pedestrian routes.
obesity: During the 19th century, views on obesity changed in the Western world.
obesity: The American legal system, however, has decided that the potential public health costs exceed the benefits of extending this anti-discrimination law to cover obesity.
obesity: This becomes a Catch-22 situation, as many insurance companies refuse to pay for treatment methods for workers living with obesity.
obesity: One study found that the improved survival could be explained by the more aggressive treatment obese people receive after a cardiac event.
obesity: Increases in body fat alter the body's response to insulin, potentially leading to insulin resistance.
obesity: Text taken from World Food and Agriculture – Statistical Yearbook 2025​, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
obesity: Intermittent fasting has no additional benefit of weight loss compared to continuous energy restriction.
obesity: This continued through much of Christian European history, with only those of low socioeconomic status being depicted as obese.
obesity: However, obesity is not regarded as a psychiatric disorder, and therefore is not listed in the DSM-IVR as a psychiatric illness.
obesity: A number of organizations exist that promote the acceptance of obesity.
obesity: The estimated range for annual expenditures on diet products is $40 billion to $100 billion in the US alone.
obesity: In 2005, the US Congress discussed legislation to prevent civil lawsuits against the food industry in relation to obesity; however, it did not become law.
obesity: In Asians the risk of negative health effects begins to increase between 22 and 25 kg/m2.
obesity: Medications can be used, along with a suitable diet, to reduce appetite or decrease fat absorption.
obesity: The use of antibiotics among children has also been associated with obesity later in life.
obesity: The healthy BMI range varies with the age and sex of the child.
obesity: The risk of obesity in dogs is related to whether or not their owners are obese; however, there is no similar correlation between cats and their owners.
obesity: For children, obesity measures take age into consideration along with height and weight.
obesity: The US-based National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance (NAAFA) was formed in 1969 and describes itself as a civil rights organization dedicated to ending size discrimination.
obesity: Solutions look at changing the factors that cause excess food energy consumption and inhibit physical activity.
obesity: The thrifty gene hypothesis postulates that, due to dietary scarcity during human evolution, people are prone to obesity.
obesity: From the early 1970s to the late 1990s the average food energy available per person per day (the amount of food bought) increased in all parts of the world except Eastern Europe.
obesity: In 2022, over 1 billion people lived with obesity worldwide (879 million adults and 159 million children), representing more than double the adult cases (and four times higher than cases among children) registered in 1990.
obesity: Smoking has a significant effect on an individual's weight.
obesity: Although 87% of participants in the National Weight Control Registry were able to maintain 10% body weight loss for 10 years, the most appropriate dietary approach for long term weight loss maintenance is still unknown.
obesity: Obesity has thus historically been viewed as a sign of wealth and prosperity.
obesity: The satiety value shows that the feeling of satiety per calorie varies between food types.
obesity: In the United States, medications are not FDA approved for use in this age group.
obesity: Obese people consistently under-report their food consumption as compared to people of normal weight.
obesity: Obesity is still seen as a sign of wealth and well-being in many parts of Africa.
obesity: The reference data that these percentiles are based on is from 1963 to 1994 and thus has not been affected by the recent increases in rates of obesity.
obesity: Any BMI ≥ 35 or 40 kg/m2 is severe obesity.
obesity: Success rates of long-term weight loss maintenance with lifestyle changes are low, ranging from 2–20%.
obesity: With the onset of the Industrial Revolution, it was realized that the military and economic might of nations were dependent on both the body size and strength of their soldiers and workers.
obesity: A BMI of ≥ 45 or 50 kg/m2 is super obesity.
obesity: People with two copies of the FTO gene (fat mass and obesity associated gene) have been found on average to weigh 3–4 kg more and have a 1.67-fold greater risk of obesity compared with those without the risk allele.
obesity: The obesus or fat character in Ancient Greek comedy was a glutton and figure of mockery.
obesity: While many people with obesity attempt to lose weight and are often successful, maintaining weight loss long-term is rare.
obesity: Promotion of the Mediterranean diets among the obese may lower the risk of heart disease.
obesity: Like many other medical conditions, obesity is the result of an interplay between genetic and environmental factors.
obesity: The CDC has found that obesity is the single strongest risk factor for severe COVID-19 illness.
obesity: The World Health Organization indicates people worldwide are taking up less active recreational pursuits, while research from Finland found an increase and research from the United States found leisure-time physical activity has not changed significantly.
obesity: This has become particularly common since the HIV epidemic began.
obesity: In the short-term low carbohydrate diets appear better than low fat diets for weight loss.
obesity: Increased fat also creates a proinflammatory state, and a prothrombotic state.
obesity: In 2007 repeating the same research found the same relationships, but they were weaker.
obesity: A correlation in BMI changes over time has been found among friends, siblings, and spouses.
obesity: At a biological level, there are many possible pathophysiological mechanisms involved in the development and maintenance of obesity.
obesity: Hand and Steven N.
obesity: The guidelines of the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists call for physicians to use risk stratification with obese patients when considering how to assess their risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
obesity: Malnutrition in early life is believed to play a role in the rising rates of obesity in the developing world.
obesity: In 2019 a systematic review compared the effects on weight of various doses of fluoxetine (60 mg/d, 40 mg/d, 20 mg/d, 10 mg/d) in obese adults.
obesity: Excess body fat underlies 64% of cases of diabetes in men and 77% of cases in women.
obesity: People with class I obesity and heart disease do not have greater rates of further heart problems than people of normal weight who also have heart disease.
obesity: Nutritional labelling with energy information on menus might be able to help reducing energy intake while dining in restaurants.
obesity: The United States had the highest availability with 3,654 calories (15,290 kJ) per person in 1996.
obesity: Because childhood obesity often persists into adulthood and is associated with numerous chronic illnesses, children who are obese are often tested for hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and fatty liver disease.
obesity: delivered by a physician or nurse practitioner) have only a marginal positive effect in reducing childhood overweight or obesity.
obesity: Once considered a problem only of high-income countries, obesity rates are rising worldwide and affecting both the developed and developing world.
obesity: These groups often argue for the recognition of obesity as a disability under the US Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA).
obesity: Campaigns might also be able to reduce the amount of time spent sitting or lying down and positively affect the intention to be active physically.
obesity: The World Health Organization recommends the taxing of sugary drinks.
obesity: It was common among high officials in Ancient East Asian civilizations.
obesity: In 2006, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) issued a guideline on the diagnosis and management of obesity, as well as policy implications for non-healthcare organizations such as local councils.
obesity: Both groups of arcuate nucleus neurons are regulated in part by leptin.
obesity: Some East Asian countries use lower BMI thresholds to define obesity.
obesity: In 2005, Frank et al.
obesity: As Asian populations develop negative health consequences at a lower BMI than Caucasians, some nations have redefined obesity; Japan has defined obesity as any BMI greater than 25 kg/m2 while China uses a BMI of greater than 28 kg/m2.
obesity: remarkably prescient.
obesity: In Ireland, obesity is now defined as "a Complex, Chronic & Relapsing Disease".
obesity: Ēsus is the past participle of edere (to eat), with ob (over) added to it.
obesity: Total food energy consumption has been found to be related to obesity.
obesity: This field of research had been almost unapproached until the leptin gene was discovered in 1994 by J.
obesity: Whether these differences are the direct cause or the result of obesity has yet to be determined unequivocally.
obesity: Many cultures throughout history have viewed obesity as the result of a character flaw.
obesity: In 2014, the BioSHaRE–EU Healthy Obese Project (sponsored by Maelstrom Research, a team under the Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre) came up with two definitions for healthy obesity, one more strict and one less so:
obesity: In 2021, the World Health Organization estimated that obesity caused at least 2.8 million deaths annually.
obesity: In 1997, the WHO formally recognized obesity as a global epidemic.
obesity: Prior to the 1970s, obesity was a relatively rare condition even in the wealthiest of nations, and when it did exist it tended to occur among the wealthy.
obesity: The number of people considered metabolically healthy depends on the definition used, and there is no universally accepted definition.
obesity: Thus a deficiency in leptin signaling, either via leptin deficiency or leptin resistance, leads to overfeeding and may account for some genetic and acquired forms of obesity.
obesity: There are numerous obese people who have relatively few metabolic abnormalities, and a minority of obese people have no medical complications.
obesity: Obese people who do not experience medical complications from their obesity are sometimes called (metabolically) healthy obese, but the extent to which this group exists (especially among older people) is in dispute.
obesity: Among developed countries, levels of adult obesity, and percentage of teenage children who are overweight, are correlated with income inequality.
obesity: Multi-component behaviour change interventions that include changes to dietary and physical activity may reduce BMI in the short term in children aged 6 to 11 years, although the benefits are small and quality of evidence is low.
obesity: As with obesity in adults, many factors contribute to the rising rates of childhood obesity.
obesity: Sex- and gender-based differences influence the prevalence of obesity.
obesity: This appears to apply in at least four continents.
obesity: An association between viruses and obesity has been found in humans and several different animal species.
obesity: These women, however, still maintained the "hourglass" shape with its relationship to fertility.
obesity: A limited number of cases are due primarily to genetics, medical reasons, or psychiatric illness.
obesity: Different people exposed to the same environment have different risks of obesity due to their underlying genetics.
obesity: Medical illnesses that increase obesity risk include several rare genetic syndromes (listed above) as well as some congenital or acquired conditions: hypothyroidism, Cushing's syndrome, growth hormone deficiency, and some eating disorders such as binge eating disorder and night eating syndrome.
obesity: Obesity in pets is common in many countries.
obesity: This increased further in 2003 to 3,754 calories (15,710 kJ).
obesity: Worldwide there has been a large shift towards less physically demanding work, and currently at least 30% of the world's population gets insufficient exercise.
obesity: The surgical literature breaks down class II and III or only class III obesity into further categories whose exact values are still disputed.
obesity: Studies that have focused on inheritance patterns rather than on specific genes have found that 80% of the offspring of two obese parents were also obese, in contrast to less than 10% of the offspring of two parents who were of normal weight.
obesity: Advertising of unhealthy foods to children also contributes, as it increases their consumption of the product.
obesity: As of 2008, the WHO estimates that at least 500 million adults (greater than 10%) are obese, with higher rates among women than men.
obesity: Then, a confluence of events started to change the human condition.
obesity: One of the earliest, highly cited studies (over 2,600 citations) on the link between physical activity and obesity was co-authored by Lawrence D.
obesity: In 2022 the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) published a comprehensive review of research on what local authorities can do to reduce obesity.
obesity: Some known causes are diet, low physical activity, automation, urbanization, genetic susceptibility, medications, mental disorders, economic policies, endocrine disorders, and exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals.
obesity: In 2014, more than 600 million adults were obese, equal to about 13 percent of the world's adult population, with that figure growing to 16% by 2022, according to the World Health Organization.
obesity: People with obesity are also paid less than their counterparts (who do not live with obesity) for an equivalent job; women with obesity on average make 6% less and men with obesity make 3% less.
obesity: One of the strongest is the link with type 2 diabetes.
obesity: However, some in the movement are also attempting to challenge the established relationship between obesity and negative health outcomes.
obesity: In part, this may be because of urban design issues (such as inadequate public spaces for physical activity).
obesity: For example, more than half of all NFL players are classified as "obese" (BMI ≥ 30), and 1 in 4 are classified as "extremely obese" (BMI ≥ 35), according to the BMI metric.
obesity: According to American Society of Bariatric Physicians, levels in excess of 32% for women and 25% for men are generally considered to indicate obesity.
obesity: Since the introduction of medicines for the management of obesity in the 1930s, many compounds have been tried.
obesity: Intensive behavioral counseling is recommended in those who are both obese and have other risk factors for heart disease.
obesity: Two distinct but related processes are considered to be involved in the development of obesity: sustained positive energy balance (energy intake exceeding energy expenditure) and the resetting of the body weight "set point" at an increased value.
obesity: When comparing, in the same review, the effects of fluoxetine on weight of obese adults, to other anti-obesity agents, omega-3 gel and not receiving a treatment, the authors could not reach conclusive results due to poor quality of evidence.
obesity: In 2000, the extra weight of passengers with obesity cost airlines US$275 million.
obesity: The 20 countries with the highest prevalence of obesity among adults in 2022 were mostly in the Pacific Islands, the Caribbean, and the Near East and North Africa.
obesity: In Australia, the rate of obesity among dogs in a veterinary setting has been found to be 7.6%.
obesity: Out of 25 anti-obesity medications withdrawn from the market between 1964 and 2009, 23 acted by altering the functions of chemical neurotransmitters in the brain.
obesity: After stopping treatment with GLP-1 agonists such as semaglutide, liraglutide and tirzepatide, people regain on average more than half (50–70%) of the lost weight within 1 year.
obesity: As such, managing it requires changes in the wider societal context and effort by communities, local authorities, and governments.
obesity: Changes to diet as well as exercising are the main treatments recommended by health professionals.
obesity: It is thought that in developed countries, the wealthy are able to afford more nutritious food, they are under greater social pressure to remain slim, and have more opportunities along with greater expectations for physical fitness.
obesity: The main treatment for obesity consists of weight loss via lifestyle interventions, including prescribed diets and physical exercise; medications and surgery can also be used in the management of obesity.
obesity: The Lancet Commission on Obesity in 2019 called for a global treaty—modelled on the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control—committing countries to address obesity and undernutrition, explicitly excluding the food industry from policy development.
obesity: Research estimated  the medical costs attributable to obesity in the US in 2005  at $190.2 billion or 20.6% of all medical expenditures, while the cost of obesity in Canada was estimated at CA$2 billion in 1997 (2.4% of total health costs).
obesity: In 2021, nearly half the global adult population - a billion men and 1.11 billion women aged 25 or older - were overweight or obese.
obesity: Because most of the studies on this topic are questionnaire-based, it is possible that these findings overestimate the relationships between personality and obesity: people who are obese might be aware of the social stigma of obesity and their questionnaire responses might be biased accordingly.
obesity: Some attribute the Venus figurines to the tendency to emphasize fertility while others feel they represent "fatness" in the people of the time.
obesity: To come up with these criteria, BioSHaRE controlled for age and tobacco use, researching how both may effect the metabolic syndrome associated with obesity, but not found to exist in the metabolically healthy obese.
obesity: No significant differences were seen among men of different social classes.
obesity: This tendency to store fat, however, would be maladaptive in societies with stable food supplies.
obesity: Corpulence is, however, absent in both Greek and Roman art, probably in keeping with their ideals regarding moderation.
obesity: The prevalence of obesity was lowest among non-Hispanic Asian adults (17.4%) compared with non-Hispanic white (42.2%), non-Hispanic black (49.6%), and Hispanic (44.8%) adults.
obesity: In the US, the percentage of overweight and obese children increased to 16% in 2008, a 300% increase over the prior 30 years.
obesity: Medical organizations tend to classify people living with obesity as based on body mass index (BMI) – a ratio of a person's weight in kilograms to the square of their height in meters.
obesity: This is primarily due to increasing use of mechanized transportation and a greater prevalence of labor-saving technology in the home.
obesity: Obesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions.
obesity: This scale also introduces factors such as Quality of Life, Mental Health & Mobility amongst others.
obesity: During the 20th century, as populations reached their genetic potential for height, weight began increasing much more than height, resulting in obesity.
obesity: In earlier historical periods obesity was rare and achievable only by a small elite, although already recognised as a problem for health.
obesity: Overweight and obese Australians also received A$35.6 billion in government subsidies.
obesity: In recent years, Canada chose to allow both Chile & Ireland to adapt their obesity guidelines to suit both countries' health systems.
obesity: Complications occur in about 17% of cases and reoperation is needed in 7% of cases.
obesity: He recommended physical work to help cure it and its side effects.
obesity: This theory has received various criticisms, and other evolutionarily-based theories such as the drifty gene hypothesis and the thrifty phenotype hypothesis have also been proposed.
obesity: Surgery for severe obesity is associated with long-term weight loss, improvement in obesity-related conditions, and decreased overall mortality; however, improved metabolic health results from the weight loss, not the surgery.
obesity: Similar findings have been made in other types of heart disease.
obesity: When compared to their ideal-weight counterparts, workers with obesity, on average, have higher rates of absenteeism from work and take more disability leave, thus increasing costs for employers and decreasing productivity.
obesity: Whether one causes the other is unclear.
obesity: It was predicted  that if these trends continue about 57.4% of men and 60.3% of women would be overweight or obese by 2050.
obesity: The second process explains why finding effective obesity treatments has been difficult.
obesity: In undeveloped countries the ability to afford food, high energy expenditure with physical labor, and cultural values favoring a larger body size are believed to contribute to the observed patterns.
obesity: The percentage of adults affected in the United States as of 2015–2016 is about 39.6% overall (37.9% of males and 41.1% of females).
obesity: There is an indication that gut flora can affect the metabolic potential.
obesity: The organization was founded with at least $1.5M in funding from the Coca-Cola Company, and the company has provided $4M in research funding to the two founding scientists Gregory A.
obesity: The rate of obesity in cats was slightly higher at 6.4%.
obesity: Diet quality can be improved by reducing the consumption of energy-dense foods, such as those high in fat or sugars, and by increasing the intake of dietary fiber.
obesity: In particular, they and other appetite-related hormones act on the hypothalamus, a region of the brain central to the regulation of food intake and energy expenditure.
obesity: The strength of the link between obesity and specific conditions varies.
obesity: In the United States, subsidization of corn, soy, wheat, and rice through the U.S.
obesity: A study from the RAK Hospital found that obese people are at a greater risk of developing long COVID.
obesity: The preferred obesity metric in scholarly circles is the body fat percentage (BF%) – the ratio of the total weight of person's fat to his or her body weight, and BMI is viewed merely as a way to approximate BF%.
obesity: Changing diet and decreasing physical activity are believed to be the two most important causes for the recent increase in the incidence of child obesity.
obesity: Consumption of sweetened beverages such as soft drinks, fruit drinks, and iced tea is believed to be contributing to the rising rates of obesity and to an increased risk of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes.
obesity: While leptin and ghrelin are produced peripherally, they control appetite through their actions on the central nervous system.
obesity: They also had more than 12 times as many lost work-days.
obesity: Analysis therefore concludes that reducing obesity may improve the public's health, but that it is unlikely to reduce  health spending overall.
obesity: Adherence is a more important factor in weight loss success than whatever kind of diet an individual undertakes.
obesity: This apparent alteration is believed to confer a greater capacity to harvest energy contributing to obesity.
obesity: BMI is now viewed as outdated in some countries because it ignores variations between individuals in amounts of lean body mass, particularly muscle mass.
obesity: Depending on the degree of obesity and the presence of comorbid disorders, obesity is associated with an estimated 2–20 year shorter life expectancy.
obesity: From 1971 to 2000, obesity rates in the United States increased from 14.5% to 30.9%.
obesity: The weight that is viewed as an ideal has become lower since the 1920s.
obesity: Rubens (1577–1640) regularly depicted heavyset women in his pictures, from which derives the term Rubenesque.
obesity: Public health efforts seek to understand and correct the environmental factors responsible for the increasing prevalence of obesity in the population.
obesity: Although the negative health consequences of obesity in the general population are well supported by the available research evidence, health outcomes in certain subgroups seem to be improved at an increased BMI, a phenomenon known as the obesity survival paradox.
obesity: Others, such as the UK, do not.
obesity: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) further subdivides obesity based on BMI, with a BMI 30 to 35 called class 1 obesity; 35 to 40, class 2 obesity; and 40+, class 3 obesity.
obesity: Mass media campaigns seem to have limited effectiveness in changing behaviors that influence obesity, but may increase knowledge and awareness regarding physical activity and diet, which might lead to changes in the long term.
obesity: Polymorphisms in various genes controlling appetite and metabolism predispose to obesity when sufficient food energy is present.
obesity: Treatments used in children are primarily lifestyle interventions and behavioral techniques, although efforts to increase activity in children have had little success.
obesity: In China overall rates of obesity are below 5%; however, in some cities rates of obesity are greater than 20%.
obesity: Heart disease and diabetes risks associated with different diets appear to be similar.
obesity: They determined that a 5% increase in a community's walkability index was associated with a 32.1% increase in time spent walking or biking and a .23-point reduction in BMI.
obesity: Globally, certain countries have implemented sin taxes (such as a sugary drink tax) in to curb dietary and consumer habits, and in an effort to offset economic costs.
obesity: Research in 1989 found that in developed countries women of a high social class were less likely to be obese.
obesity: Antibiotics in the first 6 months of life have been associated with excess weight at age seven to twelve years of age.
obesity: Increasing rates of obesity at a societal level are felt to be due to an easily accessible and palatable diet, increased reliance on cars, and mechanized manufacturing.
obesity: Increased media exposure increases the rate of childhood obesity, with rates increasing proportionally to time spent watching television.
obesity: In modern Western culture, excess weight is often regarded as unattractive, and obesity is commonly associated with various negative stereotypes.
obesity: Obesity is a complex public health and policy problem because of its prevalence, costs, and health effects.
obesity: Obesity is a medical condition, considered  a disease by multiple organizations, in which excess body fat has accumulated to such an extent that it can have negative effects on health.
obesity: Deaths were reportedly associated with seven products.
obesity: The World Health Organization stresses that the disease is a societal responsibility and that these dietary choices should be made the most available, affordable, and accessible options.
obesity: Six medications for long-term use are: liraglutide, naltrexone/bupropion, orlistat, semaglutide, tirzepatide and phentermine/topiramate.
obesity: It has more of a global orientation and describes its mission as promoting size acceptance and helping to end weight-based discrimination.
obesity: The decrease in strength of correlation was felt to be due to the effects of globalization.
obesity: The Court said that if an employee's obesity prevents "full and effective participation of that person in professional life on an equal basis with other workers", then it shall be considered a disability and that firing someone on such grounds is discriminatory.
obesity: Obesity is a major cause of disability and is correlated with various diseases and conditions, particularly cardiovascular diseases, type 2 diabetes, obstructive sleep apnea, certain types of cancer, and osteoarthritis.
obesity: For most of human history, mankind struggled with food scarcity.
obesity: The arcuate nucleus contains two distinct groups of neurons.
obesity: Increasing the average body mass index from what is now considered underweight to what is now the normal range played a significant role in the development of industrialized societies.
obesity: Physical activity in children may not be a significant contributor.
obesity: In the developing world urbanization is playing a role in increasing rate of obesity.
obesity: Friedman's laboratory.
obesity: The Oxford English Dictionary documents its first usage in 1611 by Randle Cotgrave.
obesity: Certain aspects of personality are associated with being obese.
obesity: Some call for policy against ultra-processed foods.
obesity: Time spent in motor vehicles, as opposed to active transportation options such as cycling or walking, is correlated with increased risk of obesity.
obesity: Dietary energy supply (the amount of calories in available food) per capita varies markedly between different regions and countries.
obesity: Obesity can lead to social stigmatization and disadvantages in employment.
obesity: The healthcare industry has invested in special facilities for handling  patients with class III obesity, including special lifting equipment and bariatric ambulances.
obesity: authored the highly cited (over 1,900 citations) Many Pathways from Land Use to Health.
obesity: Obesity has individual, socioeconomic, and environmental causes.
obesity: Most of this extra food energy came from an increase in carbohydrate consumption rather than fat consumption.
obesity: Some modifications to the WHO definitions have been made by particular organizations.
obesity: Specific industries, such as the airline, healthcare and food industries, have special concerns.
obesity: There are several circuits within the hypothalamus that contribute to its role in integrating appetite, the melanocortin pathway being the most well understood.
obesity: Blair since 2008.
obesity: Even if short sleep does increase weight gain, it is unclear if this is to a meaningful degree or if increasing sleep would be of benefit.
obesity: In the 17th century, English medical author Tobias Venner is credited with being one of the first to refer to the term as a societal disease in a published English language book.
obesity: One study found a weight loss of between 14% and 25% (depending on the type of procedure performed) at 10 years, and a 29% reduction in all cause mortality when compared to standard weight loss measures.
obesity: Hippocrates wrote that "Corpulence is not only a disease itself, but the harbinger of others".
obesity: Obesity-prevention programs demonstrably reduce the cost of treating obesity-related disease.
obesity: Metabolic surgery promotes weight loss not only by reducing caloric intake but also by inducing sustained changes in the secretion of gut hormones involved in appetite and metabolic regulation.
obesity: The primary sources of these extra carbohydrates are sweetened beverages, which now account for almost 25 percent of daily food energy in young adults in America, and potato chips.
obesity: Similarly, the personalities of people who are obese as children might be influenced by obesity stigma, rather than these personality factors acting as risk factors for obesity.
obesity: It manages to foreshadow the next 2 decades of obesity and physical activity research, as well as introduce new methods of characterizing and considering the built environment’s role in chronic disease.
obesity: Some have proposed that chemical compounds called "obesogens" may play a role in obesity.
obesity: Ancient Greek medicine recognizes obesity as a medical disorder and records that the Ancient Egyptians saw it in the same way.
obesity: These measures started in January 2010 and apply to those state workers whose BMI exceeds 35 kg/m2 and who fail to make improvements in their health after one year.
obesity: In 2006, the Canadian Obesity Network, now known as Obesity Canada published the "Canadian Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPG) on the Management and Prevention of Obesity in Adults and Children".
obesity: Due to rising rates of obesity, airlines face higher fuel-costs and pressures to increase seating-width.
obesity: The Indian surgeon Sushruta (6th century BCE) related obesity to diabetes and heart disorders.
obesity: Loneliness, neuroticism, impulsivity, and sensitivity to reward are more common in people who are obese while conscientiousness and self-control are less common in people who are obese.
obesity: In people with greater degrees of obesity, however, the risk of further cardiovascular events is increased.
obesity: The second group coexpresses pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) and has stimulatory inputs to the VMH and inhibitory inputs to the LH.
obesity: During this time period, insurance companies realized the connection between weight and life expectancy and increased premiums for the obese.
obesity: The same year, the House of Commons Health Select Committee published its "most comprehensive inquiry [...] ever undertaken" into the impact of obesity on health and society in the UK and possible approaches to the problem.
obesity: A 2007 report produced by Derek Wanless for the King's Fund warned that unless further action was taken, obesity had the capacity to debilitate the National Health Service financially.
obesity: In the US, intensive behavioral interventions combining both dietary changes and exercise are recommended.
obesity: A BMI of ≥ 35 kg/m2 and experiencing obesity-related health conditions or ≥ 40 or 45 kg/m2 is morbid obesity.
obesity: Individuals involved in heavy physical labor or sports may have high BMI values despite having little fat.
obesity: Another study found that if one takes into account chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in those with PAD, the benefit of obesity no longer exists.
obesity: Among antipsychotic drugs for treating schizophrenia clozapine is the most effective, but it also has the highest risk of causing the metabolic syndrome, of which obesity is the main feature.
obesity: There is no information on how these drugs affect longer-term complications of obesity such as cardiovascular disease or death, although studies on semaglutide have shown cardiovascular benefits.
obesity: Most of them reduce body weight by small amounts, and several of them are no longer marketed for obesity because of their side effects.
obesity: Brief weight management interventions in primary care (e.g.
obesity: Obesity in children and adolescents is defined as a BMI greater than the 95th percentile.
obesity: They estimated the global cost of obesity at $2 trillion a year, about or 2.8% of world GDP.
obesity: The Alabama State Employees' Insurance Board approved a controversial plan to charge obese workers $25 a month for health insurance that would otherwise be free unless they take steps to lose weight and improve their health.
obesity: In 2006, Frank et al.
obesity: During the late 1990s, Europeans had 3,394 calories (14,200 kJ) per person, in the developing areas of Asia there were 2,648 calories (11,080 kJ) per person, and in sub-Saharan Africa people had 2,176 calories (9,100 kJ) per person.
obesity: Newer research has focused on methods of identifying healthier obese people by clinicians, and not treating obese people as a monolithic group.
obesity: The differences in BMI between people that are due to genetics varies depending on the population examined from 6% to 85%.
obesity: In Britain, the weight at which people considered themselves to be overweight was significantly higher in 2007 than in 1999.
obesity: Obesity is typically defined as a substantial accumulation of body fat that could impact health.
obesity: For children aged 5–19, the WHO defines obesity as a BMI two standard deviations above the median for their age (a BMI around 18 for a five-year old; around 30 for a 19-year old).
obesity: But as prosperity increased in the Early Modern period, it affected increasingly larger groups of the population.
obesity: The average BMI of populations in first-world countries started to increase, and consequently there was a rapid increase in the proportion of people overweight and obese.
obesity: In the long term, however, all types of low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets appear equally beneficial.
obesity: The most common side effects of these drugs that led to withdrawals were mental disturbances, cardiac side effects, and drug abuse or drug dependence.
obesity: While genetic influences are important to understanding obesity, they cannot completely explain the dramatic increase seen within specific countries or globally.
obesity: The widespread availability of dietary guidelines has done little to address the problems of overeating and poor dietary choice.
obesity: Though it is accepted that energy consumption in excess of energy expenditure leads to increases in body weight on an individual basis, the cause of the shifts in these two factors on the societal scale is much debated.
obesity: Consequently, NPY/AgRP neurons stimulate feeding and inhibit satiety, while POMC/CART neurons stimulate satiety and inhibit feeding.
obesity: The OECD has projected an increase in obesity rates until at least 2030, especially in the United States, Mexico and England with rates reaching 47%, 39% and 35%, respectively.
obesity: Obesity Relationships article, deputy editor of American Journal of Preventive Medicine Margaret B.
obesity: On average, obesity reduces life expectancy by six to seven years, a BMI of 30–35 kg/m2 reduces life expectancy by two to four years, while severe obesity (BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2) reduces life expectancy by ten years.
obesity: As of 2006, more than 41 of these sites on the human genome have been linked to the development of obesity when a favorable environment is present.
obesity: A study examining Duke University employees found that people with a BMI over 40 kg/m2 filed twice as many workers' compensation claims as those with a BMI of 18.5 to 24.9 kg/m2.
obesity: Childhood obesity has reached epidemic proportions in the 21st century, with rising rates in both the developed and the developing world.
