ocean: Board on Geographic Names since 1999, and by the International Hydrographic Organization since 2000.
ocean: The wind and waves create surface currents (designated as "drift currents").
ocean: During colder climatic periods, more ice caps and glaciers form, and enough of the global water supply accumulates as ice to lessen the amounts in other parts of the water cycle.
ocean: Lastly, the hadal zone corresponds to the hadalpelagic zone, which is found in oceanic trenches.
ocean: The five principal oceans are listed below in descending order of area and volume:
ocean: Non-periodic or non-tidal currents are created by the action of winds and changes in density of water.
ocean: It can be as high as 8.4 in surface waters in areas of high biological productivity.
ocean: New York, on the east coast of North America gets winds from the west over land, so New York has colder winters and hotter, earlier summers than San Francisco.
ocean: Water molecules would have escaped Earth's gravity more easily when it was less massive during its formation.
ocean: The last and deepest zone is the hadalpelagic which includes the oceanic trench and lies between 6,000–11,000 meters (20,000–36,000 ft).
ocean: During each tidal cycle, at any given place the tidal waters rise to maximum height, high tide, before ebbing away again to the minimum level, low tide.
ocean: Next is the bathypelagic lying between 10 and 4 °C (50 and 39 °F), typically between 700–1,000 meters (2,300–3,300 ft) and 2,000–4,000 meters (6,600–13,100 ft).
ocean: The ocean as a whole is thought to cover approximately 90% of the Earth's biosphere.
ocean: As deep ocean water circulates throughout the globe, it contains gradually less oxygen and gradually more carbon dioxide with more time away from the air at the surface.
ocean: Oceans are thought to have formed in the Hadean eon and may have been the cause for the emergence of life.
ocean: Sediment carried to the sea by rivers settles on the seabed causing deltas to form in estuaries.
ocean: A report by FAO in 2020 stated that "in 2017, 34 percent of the fish stocks of the world's marine fisheries were classified as overfished".
ocean: The littoral zone covers the region between low and high tide and represents the transitional area between marine and terrestrial conditions.
ocean: The difference in height between the high tide and low tide is known as the tidal range or tidal amplitude.
ocean: This organic matter can then be consumed by other creatures.
ocean: The ice formed incorporates some sea salt, but much less than the seawater it forms from.
ocean: Ocean temperatures depends on the amount of solar radiation falling on its surface.
ocean: There is a large body of deeper water where the natural gradient of pH from 8.2 to about 7.8 still exists and it will take a very long time to acidify these waters, and equally as long to recover from that acidification.
ocean: Ocean temperatures depend on the amount of solar radiation reaching the ocean surface.
ocean: Ocean scientists split the ocean into vertical and horizontal zones based on physical and biological conditions.
ocean: The photic zone starts at the surface and is defined to be "the depth at which light intensity is only 1% of the surface value" (approximately 200 m in the open ocean).
ocean: As the oceans absorb CO2 from the atmosphere, a higher concentration leads to ocean acidification (a drop in pH value).
ocean: Below the photic zone is the mesopelagic or twilight zone where there is a very small amount of light.
ocean: After the plants have grown, oxygen is consumed and carbon dioxide released, as a result of bacterial decomposition of the organic matter created by photosynthesis in the ocean.
ocean: Protecting these ecosystems from threats is a major component of environmental protection.
ocean: The pH value at the surface used to be about 8.2 during the past 300 million years.
ocean: This depends on the temperature: in the tropics the warm surface layer of about 100 m is quite stable and does not mix much with deeper water, while near the poles winter cooling and storms makes the surface layer denser and it mixes to great depth and then stratifies again in summer.
ocean: Heavily abundant elements in ocean water such as sodium, have high input rates.
ocean: Under their influence, the sand and shingle on the beach is ground together and abraded.
ocean: After Earth's surface had significantly cooled, the water vapor over time would have condensed, forming Earth's first oceans.
ocean: The ocean surface has globally little, but measurable topography, depending on the ocean's volumes.
ocean: Production of rock phosphate, an essential ingredient in inorganic fertilizer, is a slow geological process that occurs in some of the world's ocean sediments, rendering mineable sedimentary apatite (phosphate) a non-renewable resource (see peak phosphorus).
ocean: The British naval vessel Challenger II surveyed the trench in 1951 and named the deepest part of the trench the "Challenger Deep".
ocean: In the Nuvvuagittuq Greenstone Belt, Quebec, Canada, rocks dated at 3.8 billion years old by one study and 4.28 billion years old by another show evidence of the presence of water at these ages.
ocean: This makes it slightly alkaline.
ocean: This point is roughly 2,688 km (1,670 mi) from the nearest land.
ocean: At greater depth, the thermohaline circulation drives water motion.
ocean: For instance, seabirds are a diverse group of birds that have adapted to a life mainly on the oceans.
ocean: Wind blowing over the surface of a body of water forms waves that are perpendicular to the direction of the wind.
ocean: Thus, knowing the Moon's position does not allow a local to predict tide timings, instead requiring precomputed tide tables which account for the continents and the Sun, among others.
ocean: Phytoplankton, a type of microscopic free-floating algae, controls this process.
ocean: Human activities affect marine life and marine habitats through many negative influences, such as marine pollution (including marine debris and microplastics), overfishing, ocean acidification, and other effects of climate change on oceans.
ocean: The chemical equation for alkalinity in seawater is:
ocean: Sea ice usually starts to freeze at the very surface, initially as a very thin ice film.
ocean: Residence time is the average time the element would spend dissolved in the ocean before it is removed.
ocean: If a zone undergoes dramatic changes in temperature with depth, it contains a thermocline, a distinct boundary between warmer surface water and colder deep water.
ocean: Animals: most animal phyla have species that inhabit the ocean, including many that are found only in marine environments such as sponges, Cnidaria (such as corals and jellyfish), comb jellies, Brachiopods, and Echinoderms (such as sea urchins and sea stars).
ocean: Tides are not to be confused with storm surges, which can occur when high winds pile water up against the coast in a shallow area and this, coupled with a low pressure system, can raise the surface of the ocean dramatically above a typical high tide.
ocean: The ocean surface is a crucial interface for oceanic and atmospheric processes.
ocean: These wind driven currents are largely confined to the top hundreds of meters of the ocean.
ocean: This reflects high abundance in rocks and rapid rock weathering, paired with very slow removal from the ocean due to sodium ions being comparatively unreactive and highly soluble.
ocean: Some elements have very high concentrations of several grams per liter, such as sodium and chloride, together making up the majority of ocean salts.
ocean: This cold and dense water moves slowly away from the poles which is why the waters in the deepest layers of the world ocean are so cold.
ocean: Oceanographers classify the ocean into vertical and horizontal zones based on physical and biological conditions.
ocean: The global pattern of winds (also called atmospheric circulation) creates a global pattern of ocean currents.
ocean: This produces carbonic acid (H2CO3) which dissociates into a bicarbonate ion (HCO−3) and a hydrogen ion (H+).
ocean: Forms of sustainable marine energy include tidal power, ocean thermal energy and wave power.
ocean: This is due to the fact that surface waters in polar latitudes are nearly as cold as deeper waters.
ocean: The neritic zone covers the water directly above the continental shelves, including coastal waters.
ocean: During the last ice age, glaciers covered almost one-third of Earth's land mass with the result being that the oceans were about 122 m (400 ft) lower than today.
ocean: Tides create tidal currents, while wind and waves cause surface currents.
ocean: Rogue waves, however, have been documented at heights above 25 meters (82 ft).
ocean: At atmospheric pressure, normal seawater freezes at a temperature of about −2 °C.
ocean: By doing so the agreement now makes it possible to protect 30% of the oceans by 2030 (part of the 30 by 30 target).
ocean: The cold water moves back towards the equator as a deep sea current, driven by changes in the temperature and density of the water, before eventually welling up again towards the surface.
ocean: Nearly half of the world's marine waters are over 3,000 meters (9,800 ft) deep.
ocean: Oceanic evaporation, as a phase of the water cycle, is the source of most rainfall (about 90%), causing a global cloud cover of 67% and a consistent oceanic cloud cover of 72%.
ocean: sustainable fishing practices and types of aquaculture).
ocean: The absorption of CO2 from the atmosphere does not affect the ocean's alkalinity.
ocean: The photic zone is defined to be "the depth at which light intensity is only 1% of the surface value".
ocean: The pelagic zone consists of the water column of the open ocean, and can be divided into further regions categorized by light abundance and by depth.
ocean: Deep ocean water has a temperature between −2 °C (28 °F) and 5 °C (41 °F) in all parts of the globe.
ocean: Today, this concept is enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
ocean: There is also the protection of marine resources and components whose extraction or disturbance would cause substantial harm, engagement of broader publics and impacted communities, and the development of ocean clean-up projects (removal of marine plastic pollution).
ocean: This tends to undercut the cliff, and normal weathering processes such as the action of frost follows, causing further destruction.
ocean: Storm waves arrive on shore in rapid succession and are known as destructive waves as the swash moves beach material seawards.
ocean: In the open ocean tidal ranges are less than 1 meter, but in coastal areas these tidal ranges increase to more than 10 meters in some areas.
ocean: In 1960, the Trieste successfully reached the bottom of the trench, carrying a crew of two.
ocean: There is no universally accepted reference pH-scale for seawater and the difference between measurements based on multiple reference scales may be up to 0.14 units.
ocean: At similar latitudes, a place on Earth with more influence from the ocean will have a more moderate climate than a place with more influence from land.
ocean: A headland is a point of land jutting out into the sea and a larger promontory is known as a cape.
ocean: These currents can considerably change and are dependent on the yearly seasons.
ocean: The ocean contains 97% of Earth's water and is the primary component of Earth's hydrosphere, acting as a huge reservoir of heat for Earth's energy budget, as well as for its carbon cycle and water cycle, forming the basis for climate and weather patterns worldwide.
ocean: The pH value at the surface of oceans (global mean surface pH) is currently approximately in the range of 8.05 to 8.08.
ocean: Nitrate and phosphate have ocean residence times of 10,000 and 69,000 years, respectively, while potassium is a much more abundant ion in the ocean with a residence time of 12 million years.
ocean: The "perpendicular" sides, from which the Moon appears in line with the local horizon, experience "tidal troughs".
ocean: Tides are the regular rise and fall in water level experienced by oceans, primarily driven by the Moon's gravitational tidal forces upon the Earth.
ocean: All these materials move back and forth under the influence of waves, tides and currents.
ocean: Many of the world's goods are moved by ship between the world's seaports.
ocean: For example, the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation (AMOC) is driven by the cooling of surface waters in the polar latitudes in the north and south, creating dense water which sinks to the bottom of the ocean.
ocean: It is the region where photosynthesis can occur and is, therefore, the most biodiverse.
ocean: Some of this organic matter sinks into the deep ocean where it is broken down back into carbonate and bicarbonate.
ocean: These major ocean currents include the Gulf Stream, Kuroshio Current, Agulhas Current and Antarctic Circumpolar Current.
ocean: NOAA – National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (United States)
United Nations Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development (2021–2030)
ocean: Near some of the boundaries between the land and sea, the slightly denser oceanic plates slide beneath the continental plates and more subduction trenches are formed.
ocean: A stronger gust blowing over the ocean causes larger waves as the moving air pushes against the raised ridges of water.
ocean: The biggest global commercial fishery is for anchovies, Alaska pollock and tuna.
ocean: Salinity can be calculated using the chlorinity, which is a measure of the total mass of halogen ions (includes fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine) in seawater.
ocean: Vertically the pelagic zone is the open ocean's water column from the surface to the ocean floor.
ocean: All this has impacts on the global climate system.
ocean: During the last global "warm spell," about 125,000 years ago, the seas were about 5.5 m (18 ft) higher than they are now.
ocean: Those currents are caused by forces operating on the water, such as temperature and salinity differences, atmospheric circulation (wind), and the Coriolis effect.
ocean: Because this deep and cold layer contains the bulk of ocean water, the average temperature of the world ocean is 3.9 °C.
ocean: The main achievement is the new possibility to create marine protected areas in international waters.
ocean: for coral reefs) and support for sustainable seafood (e.g.
ocean: Other birds that have adapted to oceans as their living space are penguins, seagulls and pelicans.
ocean: About three million years ago the oceans could have been up to 50 m (165 ft) higher.
ocean: Deep trenches are formed here and the process is accompanied by friction as the plates grind together.
ocean: For example, the cities San Francisco (37.8 N) and New York (40.7 N) have different climates because San Francisco has more influence from the ocean.
ocean: To fulfill this need, coastal countries have exploited marine resources in their exclusive economic zone.
ocean: Here it is subject to attrition as currents flowing parallel to the coast scour out channels and transport sand and pebbles away from their place of origin.
ocean: The concentrations vary overall by only a few percent.
ocean: This interchange has fertilized life in the ocean, on land and air.
ocean: Its lowermost boundary is at a thermocline of 12 °C (54 °F) which generally lies at 700–1,000 meters (2,300–3,300 ft) in the tropics.
ocean: evaporation) and the "sea to air" temperature gradients.
ocean: There are large deposits of petroleum, as oil and natural gas, in rocks beneath the ocean floor.
ocean: The photic depth is typically about 100 m (but varies) and is related to this heated surface layer.
ocean: This cycling of carbon dioxide in oceans is an important part of the global carbon cycle.
ocean: In comparison, the average depth of the ocean is about 4 km.
ocean: It is legally binding.
ocean: These activities serve a wide variety of purposes, including navigation and exploration, naval warfare, travel, shipping and trade, food production (e.g.
ocean: The carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere is rising due to CO2 emissions, mainly from fossil fuel combustion.
ocean: The friction between air and water caused by a gentle breeze on a pond causes ripples to form.
ocean: The key issue in terms of the penetration of ocean acidification is the way the surface water mixes with deeper water or does not mix (a lack of mixing is called ocean stratification).
ocean: Plate tectonics, post-glacial rebound, and sea level rise continually change the coastline and structure of the world ocean.
ocean: These oxygen deficient areas, called oxygen minimum zones or hypoxic waters, will generally be made worse by the effects of climate change on oceans.
ocean: By estimating the residence time of an element, oceanographers examine the balance of input and removal.
ocean: This gradual decrease in oxygen concentration happens as sinking organic matter continuously gets decomposed during the time the water is out of contact with the atmosphere.
ocean: The Antarctic Circumpolar Current encircles Antarctica and influences the area's climate, connecting currents in several oceans.
ocean: In addition, many land animals have adapted to living a major part of their life on the oceans.
ocean: Thus, oceanic waters in polar regions have lower salinity content than oceanic waters in tropical regions.
ocean: It plays an important role in supplying heat to the polar regions, and thus in sea ice regulation.
ocean: This means that the carbonate, bicarbonate and borate ions are the only significant contributors to seawater alkalinity in the open ocean with well oxygenated waters.
ocean: More precisely the average depth is 3,688 meters (12,100 ft).
ocean: This rushes in a sheet up the beach before retreating into the ocean under the influence of gravity.
ocean: Below that is the aphotic deep ocean to which no surface sunlight at all penetrates.
ocean: Normally, waves roll towards the shore at the rate of six to eight per minute and these are known as constructive waves as they tend to move material up the beach and have little erosive effect.
ocean: The temperature gradient over the water depth is related to the way the surface water mixes with deeper water or does not mix (a lack of mixing is called ocean stratification).
ocean: In March 2023 a High Seas Treaty was signed.
ocean: The gases and the atmosphere are thought to have accumulated over millions of years.
ocean: As further freezing takes place, this ice film thickens and can form ice sheets.
ocean: The word "sea" can also be used for many specific, much smaller bodies of seawater, such as the North Sea or the Red Sea.
ocean: Modern observations, climate simulations and paleoclimate reconstructions suggest that the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation (AMOC) has weakened since the preindustrial era.
ocean: The ocean has a vast amount of energy carried by ocean waves, tides, salinity differences, and ocean temperature differences which can be harnessed to generate electricity.
ocean: In medieval Europe, the World Sea was the body of water that encircled the Continent (the mainland of Europe, Asia and Africa), and thus excluded the Mediterranean, Black and Caspian Seas.
ocean: The chemical properties of seawater complicate pH measurement, and several distinct pH scales exist in chemical oceanography.
ocean: The presence of free hydrogen ions (H+) lowers the pH of the ocean.
ocean: However, in August 2020, researchers reported that sufficient water to fill the oceans may have always been on the Earth since the beginning of the planet's formation.
ocean: This process is related to ocean productivity or marine primary production.
ocean: Most of the deep waters of the ocean still contain relatively high concentrations of oxygen sufficient for most animals to survive.
ocean: A global ocean has existed in one form or another on Earth for eons.
ocean: It is now standard practice to gauge it by measuring electrical conductivity of the water sample.
ocean: Life within the ocean evolved 3 billion years prior to life on land.
ocean: In the tropics, surface temperatures can rise to over 30 °C (86 °F).
ocean: Offshore platforms and drilling rigs extract the oil or gas and store it for transport to land.
ocean: This in turn depends on the water temperature and hence is different between the tropics and the polar regions (see ocean#Temperature).
ocean: Lying along the top of the abyssal plain is the abyssopelagic, whose lower boundary lies at about 6,000 meters (20,000 ft).
ocean: The longest continuous mountain range is 65,000 km (40,000 mi).
ocean: Because sea ice is less dense than water, it floats on the ocean's surface (as does fresh water ice, which has an even lower density).
ocean: There are different customs to subdivide the ocean and are adjourned by smaller bodies of water such as bays, bights, gulfs, seas, and straits.
ocean: In mid-ocean, magma is constantly being thrust through the seabed between adjoining plates to form mid-oceanic ridges and here convection currents within the mantle tend to drive the two plates apart.
ocean: It does lead to a reduction in pH value though (termed ocean acidification).
ocean: Dredging removes material and deepens channels but may have unexpected effects elsewhere on the coastline.
ocean: The ocean zones can be grouped by light penetration into (from top to bottom): the photic zone, the mesopelagic zone and the aphotic deep ocean zone:
ocean: Many types of cargo including manufactured goods, are typically transported in standard sized, lockable containers that are loaded on purpose-built container ships at dedicated terminals.
ocean: The motions of the ocean surface, known as undulations or wind waves, are the partial and alternate rising and falling of the ocean surface.
ocean: As waves approach land and move into shallow water, they change their behavior.
ocean: The ocean fills Earth's oceanic basins.
ocean: For instance, the Thames Barrier is designed to protect London from a storm surge, while the failure of the dykes and levees around New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina created a humanitarian crisis in the United States.
ocean: Such a weakening could cause large changes to global climate, with the North Atlantic particularly vulnerable.
ocean: The halocline often coincides with the thermocline, and the combination produces a pronounced pycnocline, a boundary between less dense surface water and dense deep water.
ocean: In the tropics, with the Sun nearly overhead, the temperature of the surface layers can rise to over 30 °C (86 °F) while near the poles the temperature in equilibrium with the sea ice is about −2 °C (28 °F).
ocean: It is also known as the intertidal zone because it is the area where tide level affects the conditions of the region.
ocean: Tidal currents are in phase with the tide, hence are quasiperiodic; associated with the influence of the moon and sun pull on the ocean water.
ocean: The concept of a continuous body of water with relatively unrestricted exchange between its components is critical in oceanography.
ocean: As the ice forms with low salinity this results in saltier residual seawater.
ocean: The first two of these ions contribute more than 95% of this alkalinity.
ocean: This process is often referred to as "Blue carbon".
ocean: Offshore wind power is captured by wind turbines placed out on the ocean; it has the advantage that wind speeds are higher than on land, though wind farms are more costly to construct offshore.
ocean: Timing and magnitude of tides vary widely across the Earth as a result of the continents.
ocean: Large quantities of goods are transported across the ocean, especially across the Atlantic and around the Pacific Rim.
ocean: When the wave reaches a point where its deepest oscillations of the water contact the ocean floor, they begin to slow down.
ocean: Because the thermohaline circulation determines the rate at which deep waters reach the surface, it may also significantly influence atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations.
ocean: Collectively, currents move enormous amounts of water and heat around the globe influencing climate.
ocean: Seawater covers about 361,000,000 km2 (139,000,000 sq mi) and the ocean's furthest pole of inaccessibility, known as "Point Nemo", in a region known as spacecraft cemetery of the South Pacific Ocean, at 48°52.6′S 123°23.6′W.
ocean: The waves reach their maximum height when the rate at which they are travelling nearly matches the speed of the wind.
ocean: Other measures include supply chain transparency requirement policies, policies to prevent marine pollution, ecosystem-assistance (e.g.
ocean: Data in 2017 showed that "fish consumption accounted for 17 percent of the global population's intake of animal proteins".
ocean: Material worn from the margins of the land eventually ends up in the sea.
ocean: The solubility of these gases depends on the temperature and salinity of the water.
ocean: The actual optics of light reflecting and penetrating at the ocean surface are complex.
ocean: The deepest region of the ocean is at the Mariana Trench, located in the Pacific Ocean near the Northern Mariana Islands.
ocean: These are driven not only by the wind but also by the effect of the circulation of the earth (coriolis force).
ocean: These motions profoundly affect ships on the surface of the ocean and the well-being of people on those ships who might suffer from sea sickness.
ocean: One of the most dramatic forms of weather occurs over the oceans: tropical cyclones (also called "typhoons" and "hurricanes" depending upon where the system forms).
ocean: Salinity has a major influence on the density of seawater.
ocean: Ocean governance is the conduct of the policy, actions and affairs regarding the world's oceans.
ocean: For practical and historical reasons, it is customary to divide the World Ocean into a set of five major oceans.
ocean: The entire ocean, containing 97% of Earth's water, spans 70.8% of Earth's surface, making it Earth's global ocean or world ocean.
ocean: Due to the effects of climate change on oceans, observations of sea surface salinity between 1950 and 2019 indicate that regions of high salinity and evaporation have become more saline while regions of low salinity and more precipitation have become fresher.
ocean: This leads to the distinction of Earth's surface into land and water hemispheres, as well as the division of the ocean into different oceans.
ocean: The ocean's surface is an important reference point for oceanography and geography, particularly as mean sea level.
ocean: When the sun and moon are aligned (full moon or new moon), the combined effect results in the higher "spring tides", while the sun and moon misaligning (half moons) result in lesser tidal ranges.
ocean: A zone of rapid salinity increase with depth is called a halocline.
ocean: The continental shelf and coastal waters are most affected by human activity.
ocean: Phosphate from intensive agriculture and untreated sewage is transported via runoff to rivers and coastal zones to the ocean where it is metabolized.
ocean: There is a natural gradient of pH in the ocean which is related to the breakdown of organic matter in deep water which slowly lowers the pH with depth: The pH value of seawater is naturally as low as 7.8 in deep ocean waters as a result of degradation of organic matter there.
ocean: It is very likely that the Pacific and Antarctic/Southern Oceans have freshened while the Atlantic has become more saline.
ocean: This pulls the crests closer together and increases the waves' height, which is called wave shoaling.
ocean: The benthic zones are aphotic and correspond to the three deepest zones of the deep-sea.
ocean: The ocean is essential to life on Earth, harbouring most of Earth's animals and protist life, originating photosynthesis and therefore Earth's atmospheric oxygen, still supplying half of it.
ocean: If a zone undergoes dramatic changes in salinity with depth, it contains a halocline.
ocean: Temperature and salinity control ocean water density.
ocean: If the wind dies down, the wave formation is reduced, but already-formed waves continue to travel in their original direction until they meet land.
ocean: Elements dissolved in ocean waters have a wide range of concentrations.
ocean: The alkalinity acts as a chemical buffer, regulating the pH of seawater.
ocean: This is usually up to a depth of approximately 200 m in the open ocean.
ocean: This deep ocean water circulation is relatively slow and water at the bottom of the ocean can be isolated from the ocean surface and atmosphere for hundreds or even a few thousand years.
ocean: Tidal forces affect all matter on Earth, but only fluids like the ocean demonstrate the effects on human timescales.
ocean: The average depth of the oceans is about 4 km.
ocean: Together they form the global mid-oceanic ridge system that features the longest mountain range in the world.
ocean: Around high tide, the power of a storm wave impacting on the foot of a cliff has a shattering effect as air in cracks and crevices is compressed and then expands rapidly with release of pressure.
ocean: Thus alkalinity tends to increase with depth and also along the global thermohaline circulation from the Atlantic to the Pacific and Indian Ocean, although these increases are small.
ocean: The biological cycling of these elements means that this represents a continuous removal process from the ocean's water column as degrading organic material sinks to the ocean floor as sediment.
ocean: The abyssal zone covers the abyssal plains between 4,000 and 6,000 m.
ocean: Scientists believe that a sizable quantity of water would have been in the material that formed Earth.
ocean: Many other familiar animal groups primarily live in the ocean, including cephalopods (includes octopus and squid), crustaceans (includes lobsters, crabs, and shrimp), fish, sharks, cetaceans (includes whales, dolphins, and porpoises).
ocean: The size of the waves depends on the fetch, the distance that the wind has blown over the water and the strength and duration of that wind.
ocean: As a general term, "the ocean" and "the sea" are often interchangeable.
ocean: Photosynthesis in the surface ocean releases oxygen and consumes carbon dioxide.
ocean: A beach is the accumulation of sand or shingle on the shore.
ocean: San Francisco, on the west coast of North America, gets winds from the west over the Pacific Ocean.
ocean: This five-ocean model only fully crystallized in the early 21st century, when the Southern Ocean, delineated by the Antarctic Circumpolar Current, was recognized by various government and international bodies: by the U.S.
ocean: These currents can decompose in one quasi-permanent current (which varies within the hourly scale) and one movement of Stokes drift under the effect of rapid waves movement (which vary on timescales of a couple of seconds).
ocean: Geological evidence helps constrain the time frame for liquid water existing on Earth.
ocean: Both the depth and the distance from shore strongly influence the biodiversity of the plants and animals present in each region.
ocean: The bathyal zone covers the continental slope down to about 4,000 meters (13,000 ft).
ocean: Distinct boundaries between ocean surface waters and deep waters can be drawn based on the properties of the water.
ocean: The mesopelagic is the uppermost region.
ocean: These dissolve into ocean water via gas exchange at the ocean surface, with the solubility of these gases depending on the temperature and salinity of the water.
ocean: This makes Earth, along with its vibrant hydrosphere a "water world" or "ocean world", particularly in Earth's early history when the ocean is thought to have possibly covered Earth completely.
ocean: The International Maritime Organization (IMO), which was ratified in 1958, is mainly responsible for maritime safety, liability and compensation, and has held some conventions on marine pollution related to shipping incidents.
ocean: The ocean's shape is irregular, unevenly dominating Earth's surface.
ocean: Seven species of turtles, the sea turtles, also spend most of their time in the oceans.
ocean: For example, evaporation is greater than precipitation in the Mediterranean Sea, which has an average salinity of 38‰, more saline than the global average of 34.7‰.
ocean: This in turn increases density and promotes vertical sinking of the water.
ocean: Greek Ōkeanós has been compared to the Vedic epithet ā-śáyāna-, predicated of the dragon Vṛtra-, who captured the cows/rivers.
ocean: Changes in the thermohaline circulation are thought to have significant impacts on Earth's energy budget.
ocean: If precipitation exceeds evaporation, as is the case in polar and some temperate regions, salinity will be lower.
ocean: Photosynthesis by plants and microscopic algae (free floating phytoplankton) allows the creation of organic matter from chemical precursors including water and carbon dioxide.
ocean: Life that exists deeper than the photic zone must either rely on material sinking from above (see marine snow) or find another energy source.
ocean: If the mixed layer is less thick (10 to 20 meters), the quasi-permanent current at the surface can adopt quite a different direction in relation to the direction of the wind.
ocean: As such it covers mainly Earth's structural basins, but also continental shelves.
ocean: Gradually, a wave-cut platform develops at the foot of the cliff and this has a protective effect, reducing further wave-erosion.
ocean: An exchange of these gases occurs at the ocean's surface.
ocean: However, the rocky continents pose obstacles for the tidal bulges, so the timing of tidal maxima may not actually align with the Moon in most localities on Earth, as the oceans are forced to "dodge" the continents.
ocean: Beside the world ocean, the Black and Caspian seas also occupy oceanic basins; the Mediterranean has in the past been cut off into its own basin.
ocean: The top of a wave is known as the crest, the lowest point between waves is the trough and the distance between the crests is the wavelength.
ocean: The four most abundant gases in earth's atmosphere and oceans are nitrogen, oxygen, argon, and carbon dioxide.
ocean: Ocean water contains dissolved gases, including oxygen, carbon dioxide and nitrogen.
ocean: Unlike polar waters, where solar energy input is limited, temperature stratification is less pronounced, and a distinct thermocline is often absent.
ocean: If a zone undergoes a strong, vertical chemistry gradient with depth, it contains a chemocline.
ocean: In open water, when the wind blows continuously as happens in the Southern Hemisphere in the Roaring Forties, long, organized masses of water called swell roll across the ocean.
ocean: Constructive interference can lead to the formation of unusually high rogue waves.
ocean: Marine protection may need to be considered within a national, regional and international context.
ocean: There is also increased attention on carbon dioxide uptake in coastal marine habitats such as mangroves and saltmarshes.
ocean: Ocean water contains large quantities of dissolved gases, including oxygen, carbon dioxide and nitrogen.
ocean: The wind blowing on the ocean surface will set the water in motion.
ocean: This underwater mountain range is several times longer than the longest continental mountain range – the Andes.
ocean: The concept of Ōkeanós could have an Indo-European connection.
ocean: Examples are the efforts towards the 30%-protection-goal of the "Global Deal For Nature" and the UN's Sustainable Development Goal 14 ("life below water").
ocean: By convention these are the Pacific, Atlantic, Indian, Arctic, and Southern (Antarctic) oceans.
ocean: This is the zone where photosynthesis can occur.
ocean: In tropical regions, the thermocline is typically deeper compared to higher latitudes.
ocean: Eventually, it sinks to the ocean floor and is no longer available to humans as a commercial resource.
ocean: Elements are removed from ocean water by sinking and becoming buried in sediments or evaporating to the atmosphere in the case of water and some gases.
ocean: Constant circulation of water in the ocean creates ocean currents.
ocean: At the same time, sand and pebbles have an erosive effect as they are thrown against the rocks.
ocean: Earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or other major geological disturbances can set off waves that can lead to tsunamis in coastal areas which can be very dangerous.
ocean: Below the thermocline, water everywhere in the ocean is very cold, ranging from −1 °C to 3 °C.
ocean: Salinity will be higher if evaporation exceeds precipitation, as is sometimes the case in tropical regions.
ocean: But as the top layer of the ocean (the photic zone) is crucial for its marine productivity, any changes to the pH value and temperature of the top layer can have many knock-on effects, for example on marine life and ocean currents (such as effects of climate change on oceans).
ocean: There is no sharp distinction between seas and oceans, though generally seas are smaller, and are often partly (as marginal seas) or wholly (as inland seas) bordered by land.
ocean: These characteristics can vary widely from one ocean region to another.
ocean: This acceleration of the current takes place in the direction of waves and dominant wind.
ocean: Accordingly, when the ocean depth increases, the rotation of the earth changes the direction of currents in proportion with the increase of depth, while friction lowers their speed.
ocean: This continual net deposition loss of non-renewable phosphate from human activities, may become a resource issue for fertilizer production and food security in future.
ocean: Elements enter the ocean from rivers, the atmosphere and hydrothermal vents.
ocean: This figure does not include seas not connected to the World Ocean, such as the Caspian Sea.
ocean: "Freedom of the seas" is a principle in international law dating from the seventeenth century.
ocean: If oceans existed earlier than this, any geological evidence either has yet to be discovered, or has since been destroyed by geological processes like crustal recycling.
ocean: The focus is on these ecosystems because they are strong carbon sinks as well as ecologically important habitats under threat from human activities and environmental degradation.
ocean: According to an international agreement, the following formula is used to determine salinity:
ocean: However, when sea ice forms at high latitudes, salt is excluded from the ice as it forms, which can increase the salinity in the residual seawater in polar regions such as the Arctic Ocean.
ocean: A sample of pillow basalt (a type of rock formed during an underwater eruption) was recovered from the Isua Greenstone Belt and provides evidence that water existed on Earth 3.8 billion years ago.
ocean: The pelagic part of the photic zone is known as the epipelagic.
ocean: Salinity (in ‰) = 1.80655 × Chlorinity (in ‰)
The average ocean water chlorinity is about 19.2‰ (equal to 1.92%), and thus the average salinity is around 34.7‰ (3.47%).
ocean: Seawater with a typical salinity of 35‰ has a freezing point of about −1.8 °C (28.8 °F).
ocean: Every ocean basin has a mid-ocean ridge, which creates a long mountain range beneath the ocean.
ocean: The contemporary term World Ocean was coined in the early 20th century by the Russian oceanographer Yuly Shokalsky to refer to the continuous ocean that covers and encircles most of Earth.
ocean: Governments make efforts to prevent flooding of the land by the building of breakwaters, seawalls, dykes and levees and other sea defences.
ocean: The wave is pushed across the surface of the ocean by the wind, but this represents a transfer of energy and not horizontal movement of water.
ocean: The latest climate change projections in 2021 suggest that the AMOC is likely to weaken further over the 21st century.
ocean: While there are many ions in seawater that can contribute to the alkalinity, many of these are at very low concentrations.
ocean: In contrast, other elements such as iron and aluminium are abundant in rocks but very insoluble, meaning that inputs to the ocean are low and removal is rapid.
ocean: These cycles represent part of the major global cycle of elements that has gone on since the Earth first formed.
ocean: Alkalinity is the balance of base (proton acceptors) and acids (proton donors) in seawater, or indeed any natural waters.
ocean: Oceans have a significant effect on the biosphere.
ocean: All these processes and components together make up ocean surface ecosystems.
ocean: As the world's ocean is the principal component of Earth's hydrosphere, it is integral to life on Earth, forms part of the carbon cycle and water cycle, and – as a huge heat reservoir – influences climate and weather patterns.
ocean: In littoral zones, breaking waves are so intense and the depth measurement so low, that maritime currents reach often 1 to 2 knots.
ocean: Other locations with record high tidal ranges include the Bristol Channel between England and Wales, Cook Inlet in Alaska, and the Río Gallegos in Argentina.
ocean: "Deep ocean," which is anything below 200 meters (660 ft), covers about 66% of Earth's surface.
ocean: Other elements, such as iron, are present at tiny concentrations of just a few nanograms (10−9 grams) per liter.
ocean: Much of the organic matter created in the photic zone is consumed there but some sinks into deeper waters.
ocean: As the water recedes, it gradually reveals the foreshore, also known as the intertidal zone.
ocean: The movement proceeds in jerks which cause earthquakes, heat is produced and magma is forced up creating underwater mountains, some of which may form chains of volcanic islands near to deep trenches.
ocean: Allowing interchange of particles, enriching the air and water, as well as grounds by some particles becoming sediments.
ocean: Related to this notion, the Okeanos is represented with a dragon-tail on some early Greek vases.
ocean: Where the ocean meets dry land it covers relatively shallow continental shelves, which are part of Earth's continental crust.
ocean: AT = [HCO3−] + 2[CO32-] + [B(OH)4−]
The growth of phytoplankton in surface ocean waters leads to the conversion of some bicarbonate and carbonate ions into organic matter.
ocean: Bacteria: ubiquitous single-celled prokaryotes found throughout the world
Archaea: prokaryotes distinct from bacteria, that inhabit many environments of the ocean, as well as many extreme environments
Fungi: many marine fungi with diverse roles are found in oceanic environments
ocean: CO2 from the atmosphere is absorbed by the oceans.
ocean: The origin of Earth's oceans is unknown.
ocean: When waves meet others coming from different directions, interference between the two can produce broken, irregular seas.
ocean: The treaty has articles regarding the principle "polluter-pays", and different impacts of human activities including areas beyond the national jurisdiction of the countries making those activities.
ocean: Fish and other fishery products from both wild fisheries and aquaculture are among the most widely consumed sources of protein and other essential nutrients.
ocean: If approaching at an angle, waves may bend (refraction) or wrap around rocks and headlands (diffraction).
ocean: Colder and saltier water is denser, and this density plays a crucial role in regulating the global water circulation within the ocean.
ocean: This circulation has important impacts on the global climate system and on the uptake and redistribution of pollutants and gases such as carbon dioxide, for example by moving contaminants from the surface into the deep ocean.
ocean: Warmer ocean currents yield warmer climates in the long term, even at high latitudes.
ocean: Ocean currents greatly affect Earth's climate by transferring heat from the tropics to the polar regions.
ocean: The sinking and bacterial decomposition of some organic matter in deep ocean water, at depths where the waters are out of contact with the atmosphere, leads to a reduction in oxygen concentrations and increase in carbon dioxide, carbonate and bicarbonate.
ocean: As they grate together, the continental plates are deformed and buckle causing mountain building and seismic activity.
ocean: The quasi-permanent current is accelerated by the breaking of waves, and in a lesser governing effect, by the friction of the wind on the surface.
ocean: Those effects include ocean warming, ocean acidification and sea level rise.
ocean: Tidal currents may form various complex patterns in certain places, most notably around headlands.
ocean: One of protective measures is the creation and enforcement of marine protected areas (MPAs).
ocean: Ocean water represents the largest body of water within the global water cycle (oceans contain 97% of Earth's water).
ocean: Sea ice covers about 7% of the Earth's surface and about 12% of the world's oceans.
ocean: This affects air temperature and precipitation in coastal regions and further inland.
ocean: Light can only penetrate a few hundred more meters; the rest of the deeper ocean is cold and dark (these zones are called mesopelagic and aphotic zones).
ocean: As a result, the photic zone is the most biodiverse and the source of the food supply which sustains most of the ocean ecosystem.
ocean: Surface heat and freshwater fluxes create global density gradients, which drive the thermohaline circulation that is a part of large-scale ocean circulation.
ocean: Salinity is higher in Earth's oceans where there is more evaporation and lower where there is more precipitation.
ocean: Horizontally the ocean covers the oceanic crust, which it shapes.
ocean: In this case, the water column becomes virtually homogeneous above the thermocline.
ocean: The indentation of a coastline, especially between two headlands, is a bay.
ocean: On the other hand, the oceanic zone includes all the completely open water.
ocean: This was a major factor in the rise of globalization and exponential increases in international trade in the mid-to-late 20th century.
ocean: Hydrothermal vents are a source of energy in what is known as the aphotic zone (depths exceeding 200 m).
ocean: This is due to differences in the local water balance (precipitation vs.
ocean: The global, interconnected body of salt water is sometimes referred to as the World Ocean, the "global ocean" or the "great ocean".
ocean: A few elements such as nitrogen, phosphorus, iron, and potassium essential for life, are major components of biological material, and are commonly known as "nutrients".
ocean: Parallel to these ridges and nearer the coasts, one oceanic plate may slide beneath another oceanic plate in a process known as subduction.
ocean: Oceanus was believed by the ancient Greeks and Romans to be the divine personification of an enormous river encircling the world.
ocean: The ocean is known to be the habitat of over 230,000 species, but may hold considerably more – perhaps over two million species.
ocean: Oceans moderate the climate of locations where prevailing winds blow in from the ocean.
ocean: The zone where land meets sea is known as the coast, and the part between the lowest spring tides and the upper limit reached by splashing waves is the shore.
ocean: (Tidal forces vary more with distance than the "base" force of gravity: the Moon's tidal forces on Earth are more than double the Sun's, despite the latter's much stronger gravitational force on Earth.
ocean: When the ratio of the wave's height to the water depth increases above a certain limit, it "breaks", toppling over in a mass of foaming water.
ocean: The maximum depth has been estimated to be around 10,935 meters (35,876 ft).
ocean: During planetary formation, Earth possibly had magma oceans.
ocean: The ocean waters contain many chemical elements as dissolved ions.
ocean: At a certain ocean depth, the current changes direction and is seen inverted in the opposite direction with current speed becoming null: known as the Ekman spiral.
ocean: Examples of the latter include Clean Oceans International and The Ocean Cleanup.
ocean: The series of mechanical waves that propagate along the interface between water and air is called swell – a term used in sailing, surfing and navigation.
ocean: For example, when salinity and pressure are held constant, oxygen concentration in water almost doubles when the temperature drops from that of a warm summer day 30 °C (86 °F) to freezing 0 °C (32 °F).
ocean: The Gulf Stream, Kuroshio Current, Agulhas Current and Antarctic Circumpolar Current are all major ocean currents.
ocean: Earth's tidal forces upon the Moon are 20x stronger than the Moon's tidal forces on the Earth.)
The primary effect of lunar tidal forces is to bulge Earth matter towards the near and far sides of the Earth, relative to the moon.
ocean: The basic concept is that with that little light photosynthesis is unlikely to achieve any net growth over respiration.
ocean: Evaporation from the ocean moves water into the atmosphere to later rain back down onto land and the ocean.
ocean: Strictly speaking, a "sea" is a body of water (generally a division of the world ocean) partly or fully enclosed by land.
ocean: A small bay with a narrow inlet is a cove and a large bay may be referred to as a gulf.
ocean: Near the poles where sea ice forms, the temperature in equilibrium is about −2 °C (28 °F).
ocean: The ocean has been linked to human activity throughout history.
ocean: Subsequently, outgassing, volcanic activity and meteorite impacts, produced an early atmosphere of carbon dioxide, nitrogen and water vapor, according to current theories.
ocean: As seawater's salt content increases, so does the temperature at which its maximum density occurs.
ocean: The water column is further divided into zones based on depth and the amount of light present.
ocean: Carbon dioxide emissions from human activities are the primary cause of this process called ocean acidification, with atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) levels exceeding 410 ppm (in 2020).
ocean: Containerization greatly boosted the efficiency and reduced the cost of shipping products by sea.
ocean: The table below provides an illustration of the sort of values usually encountered.
ocean: The agreement was adopted by the 193 United Nations Member States.
ocean: Most waves are less than 3 m (10 ft) high and it is not unusual for strong storms to double or triple that height.
ocean: The pH value at greater depths (more than 100 m) has not yet been affected by ocean acidification in the same way.
ocean: These boundaries are called thermoclines (temperature), haloclines (salinity), chemoclines (chemistry), and pycnoclines (density).
ocean: In this process plants and microscopic algae (free-floating phytoplankton) use light, water, carbon dioxide, and nutrients to produce organic matter.
ocean: Human activity is mostly coastal with high negative impacts on marine life.
ocean: fishing, whaling, seaweed farming, aquaculture), leisure (cruising, sailing, recreational boat fishing, scuba diving), power generation (see marine energy and offshore wind power), extractive industries (offshore drilling and deep sea mining), freshwater production via desalination.
ocean: Since it takes nearly 25 hours for the Earth to rotate under the Moon (accounting for the Moon's 28-day orbit around Earth), tides thus cycle over a course of 12.5 hours.
ocean: It was originally measured via measurement of the amount of chloride in seawater and hence termed chlorinity.
ocean: Some of the major harvests are shrimp, fish, crabs, and lobster.
ocean: It includes the Pacific, Atlantic, Indian, Antarctic/Southern, and Arctic oceans.
ocean: In this model, atmospheric greenhouse gases kept the oceans from freezing when the newly forming Sun had only 70% of its current luminosity.
ocean: The residence times of the very abundant elements in the ocean are estimated to be millions of years, while for highly reactive and insoluble elements, residence times are only hundreds of years.
ocean: The concentration of any element depends on its rate of supply to the ocean and its rate of removal.
ocean: It stresses freedom to navigate the oceans and disapproves of war fought in international waters.
ocean: This is called atmospheric escape.
ocean: The definition of global mean surface pH refers to the top layer of the water in the ocean, up to around 20 or 100 m depth.
ocean: There is a continuous circulation of water in the oceans.
ocean: Oceans are also the major supply source for the fishing industry.
ocean: Warm surface currents cool as they move away from the tropics, and the water becomes denser and sinks.
ocean: Yet, the ocean faces many environmental threats, such as marine pollution, overfishing, and the effects of climate change.
ocean: Salinity affects both the freezing and boiling points of water, with the boiling point increasing with salinity.
ocean: Since its formation the ocean has taken many conditions and shapes with many past ocean divisions and potentially at times covering the whole globe.
ocean: Earth's oceanic basins cover different geologic provinces of Earth's oceanic crust as well as continental crust.
ocean: The early oceans might have been significantly hotter than today and appeared green due to high iron content.
ocean: Fishing vessels are increasingly venturing out to exploit stocks in international waters.
ocean: However, some ocean areas have very low oxygen due to long periods of isolation of the water from the atmosphere.
ocean: The ocean is the body of salt water that covers approximately 70.8% of Earth.
ocean: The ocean provides many benefits to humans such as ecosystem services, access to seafood and other marine resources, and a means of transport.
ocean: Such currents transport massive amounts of water, gases, pollutants and heat to different parts of the world, and from the surface into the deep ocean.
ocean: The reverse is true during warm periods.
ocean: However, between 1950 and 2020, the average pH of the ocean surface fell from approximately 8.15 to 8.05.
ocean: The oceans represent a major carbon sink for carbon dioxide taken up from the atmosphere by photosynthesis and by dissolution (see also carbon sequestration).
ocean: Salinity is a measure of the total amounts of dissolved salts in seawater.
ocean: Ocean currents are primarily horizontal water movements that have different origins such as tides for tidal currents, or wind and waves for surface currents.
ocean: The influence of these currents is mainly experienced at the mixed layer of the ocean surface, often from 400 to 800 meters of maximum depth.
ocean: Some of the largest tidal ranges in the world occur in the Bay of Fundy and Ungava Bay in Canada, reaching up to 16 meters.
ocean: The diversity of life in the ocean is immense, including:
ocean: These include wind, the Coriolis effect, temperature and salinity differences.
ocean: Ocean temperatures affect climate and wind patterns that affect life on land.
ocean: They feed on marine animals and spend most of their lifetime on water, many going on land only for breeding.
ocean: Similarly, carbon dioxide and nitrogen gases are more soluble at colder temperatures, and their solubility changes with temperature at different rates.
ocean: In all parts of the ocean, deep ocean temperatures range between −2 °C (28 °F) and 5 °C (41 °F).
ocean: Ocean protection serves to safeguard the ecosystems in the oceans upon which humans depend.
ocean: At similar latitudes, a place influenced by warm ocean currents will have a warmer climate overall than a place influenced by cold ocean currents.
