oceania: The northernmost point of the east coast is the tropical-rainforested Cape York Peninsula.
oceania: Norfolk Island, an external territory of Australia, was inhabited in prehistoric times by either Melanesians or Polynesians, and is geographically adjacent to the islands of Melanesia.
oceania: The sole Micronesian country with membership in the OFC is Kiribati, although it is not recognised by FIFA like the other OFC members.
oceania: The first settlers of Australia, New Guinea, and the large islands just to the east arrived more than 60,000 years ago.
oceania: Some cultural and political definitions of Australasia include most or all of Melanesia, due to its geographical proximity to Australia and New Zealand, but these are rare.
oceania: In Reptiles and Amphibians of the Pacific Islands: A Comprehensive Guide (2013), George R.
oceania: Many are descendants of immigrants brought to work on the sugarcane plantations in the mid-to-late 19th century.
oceania: All other islands associated with Latin American countries were excluded, as they are continental in nature, unlike Guadalupe Island and the Revillagigedo Islands (both situated on the Pacific Plate) and the oceanic islands situated on the Cocos Plate and Nazca Plate.
oceania: Other uninhabited Pacific Ocean landmasses have been explicitly associated with Oceania, including the highly remote Baker Island and Wake Island (now administered by the U.S.
oceania: Kennedy defined Oceania as including Australasia, Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: There is a wide variety of native trees, adapted to all the various microclimates in New Zealand.
oceania: He divided Oceania into two subregions: Eastern Oceania, which included the islands of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia, and Southwestern Oceania, which included Australia and New Zealand.
oceania: In the tropical western Pacific, the monsoon and the related wet season during the summer months contrast with dry winds in the winter which blow over the ocean from the Asian landmass.
oceania: Brown also categorized Japan and Taiwan as being in the same part of the world as the islands of Oceania, and excluded them from The Countries of the World: Volume 5, which covered mainland Asia and Hong Kong.
oceania: The island chain borders both the Pacific Plate and the North American Plate, and is geologically a partially submerged volcanic extension of the Aleutian Range on the Alaskan mainland.
oceania: Most Oceanian countries are parliamentary democracies, with tourism serving as a large source of income for the Pacific island nations.
oceania: The most popular sport among Australian women is netball, while Australian rules football garners the highest spectatorship numbers and television ratings.
oceania: ISBN 978-0-520-20743-1.
oceania: Hawaii became a U.S.
oceania: state in 1959.
oceania: The Australian Securities Exchange in Sydney is the largest stock exchange in Australia and in the South Pacific.
oceania: Samoan male dances can be more snappy.
oceania: Oceania's largest export markets include Japan, China, the United States, India, South Korea, and the European Union.
oceania: Australasia comprises Australia, New Zealand, and neighbouring islands in the Pacific Ocean.
oceania: ISBN 978-0-521-80789-0.
oceania: Casteel and Jean-Claude Passeron, states that Oceania has traditionally been considered a continent in anthropological studies, similar to Africa, Asia, and the Americas.
oceania: Migrating from Southeast Asia, they appear to have occupied these islands as far east as the main islands in the Solomon Islands archipelago, including Makira and possibly the smaller islands farther to the east.
oceania: Distinctive ingredients or dishes include lamb; salmon; koura (crayfish); whitebait; shellfish including dredge oysters, pāua, mussels, scallops, pipi and tuatua; kumara (sweet potato); kiwifruit; tamarillo; and pavlova (considered a national dish).
oceania: Melbourne hosts the Australian Open every year, considered one of the four Grand Slam tournaments in tennis.
oceania: As such, it is not also culturally considered a part of the predominantly English-speaking Australasia.
oceania: Australia is also known for its cafe and coffee culture in urban centres.
oceania: Other Austronesian areas, such as Indonesia and the Philippines, were not included due to their closer cultural proximity to mainland Asia.
oceania: Oceania is also described as a continent, with mainland Australia regarded as its continental landmass.
oceania: Australia and New Zealand are the only highly developed independent nations in the region, although the economy of Australia is by far the largest and most dominant economy in the region and one of the largest in the world.
oceania: Auckland and Wellington are frequently ranked among the world's most liveable cities, with Auckland being ranked first in the world according to the Global Liveability Ranking.
oceania: New Zealand yields produce from land and sea – most crops and livestock, such as maize, potatoes, and pigs, were gradually introduced by the early European settlers.
oceania: Willem Janszoon, made the first completely documented European landing in Australia (1606), in Cape York Peninsula.
oceania: Australian rules football is the national sport in Nauru.
oceania: The two species of Brighamia – B.
oceania: Coined in 1812 by  geographer Conrad Malte-Brun.
oceania: 40,000 years ago by migrating across a land bridge from the mainland that existed during the last ice age.
oceania: Hawaii is dominated by the Democratic Party.
oceania: 40,000 years old.
oceania: Rugby union is one of the region's most prominent sports, and is the national sport of New Zealand, Samoa, Fiji, and Tonga.
oceania: The Pacific Islands Handbook (1945), by Robert William Robson, stated that, "Pacific Islands generally are regarded as Pacific islands lying within the tropics.
oceania: A company of Australians and a British warship besieged the Germans and their colonial subjects, ending with a German surrender.
oceania: Melanesia, to the southwest, includes New Guinea, the world's second largest island after Greenland and by far the largest of the Pacific islands.
oceania: The rock art of Aboriginal Australians is the longest continuously practiced artistic tradition in the world.
oceania: On his first voyage in the 18th century, James Cook, who later arrived at the highly developed Hawaiian Islands, went to Tahiti and followed the east coast of Australia for the first time.
oceania: Australia is situated in the middle of the tectonic plate, has occasional middle-sized earthquakes, and currently has no active volcanism (but some volcanoes in southeast Australia erupted within the last 10,000 years).
oceania: Hawaiian art includes wood carvings, feather work, petroglyphs, bark cloth (called kapa in Hawaiian and tapa elsewhere in the Pacific), and tattoos.
oceania: Fishing provides a major industry for many of the smaller nations in the Pacific, although many fishing areas are exploited by other larger countries, namely Japan.
oceania: Ross acknowledged that Oceania had historically been applied to this vast region but noted that, by his time, the Malay Archipelago was often excluded.
oceania: Among these are Bougainville, Hawaiʻi, and Solomon Islands.
oceania: Australia, New Zealand, and other nations took part in the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands between 2003 and 2017 after a request for aid.
oceania: According to the 1998 book Encyclopedia of Earth and Physical Sciences, Oceania refers to Australasia, Melanesia, Micronesia, Polynesia, and more than 10,000 islands scattered across the Pacific Ocean.
oceania: Regional Politics in Oceania: From Colonialism and Cold War to the Pacific Century (Cambridge UP, 2024), encyclopedic coverage; online review of this book
oceania: The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands were formed c.
oceania: It added there was controversy over the exact limits of Oceania, saying that, the encyclopaedia mentioned the lack of agreement among geographers about the exact boundaries of Oceania.
oceania: The South Pacific Forum was founded in 1971, and it became the Pacific Islands Forum in 2000.
oceania: The island nation of Australia is the only piece of land in the area which is large enough to typically be considered a continent.
oceania: The Japanese subsequently invaded New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and other Pacific islands.
oceania: Vanuatu is widely recognised as one of the premier vacation destinations for scuba divers wishing to explore coral reefss of the South Pacific region.
oceania: Like Australia, the Micronesian dependent territories of Guam and Northern Mariana Islands currently compete in the AFC instead of the OFC.
oceania: The Kermadec Islands, Lord Howe Island, and Norfolk Island are also considered to be subtropical islands.
oceania: Tourism New Zealand, the country's official tourism agency, is actively promoting the country as a destination worldwide.
oceania: Endowed with forest, mineral, and fish resources, Fiji is one of the most developed of the Pacific island economies, though it remains a developing country with a large subsistence agriculture sector.
oceania: Fiji has the highest percentage of Hindus in Oceania at 29.7% In absolute numbers, Australia has the largest population of Hindus in Oceania constituting 2.7% of the country's population.
oceania: It is classified as an Alpha World City by GaWC.
oceania: Common non-indigenous languages include English in Australia, New Zealand, Hawaii, and many other territories; French in New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna; Japanese in the Bonin Islands; and Spanish on Easter Island and the Galápagos Islands.
oceania: One of the first land offensives in Oceania was the occupation of German Samoa in August 1914 by New Zealand forces.
oceania: Cust considered Oceania's four subregions to be Australasia, Melanesia, Micronesia and Polynesia.
oceania: Tourism in New Zealand contributes NZ$7.3 billion (or 4%) of the country's GDP in 2013, as well as directly supporting 110,800 full-time equivalent jobs (nearly 6% of New Zealand's workforce).
oceania: As an island archipelago, New Zealand accumulated bird diversity, and when Captain James Cook arrived in the 1770s, he noted that the bird song was deafening.
oceania: In 2003 alone, according to state government data, there were over 6.4 million visitors to the Hawaiian Islands with expenditures of over $10.6 billion.
oceania: Other cultural influences come from neighbouring Asian countries, and through large-scale immigration from non-English-speaking nations.
oceania: Due to the mild year-round weather, tourist travel is popular throughout the year.
oceania: This definition consists of discrete political entities and so excludes the Bonin Islands, Hawaii, Clipperton Island, and the Juan Fernández Islands, along with Easter Island, which was annexed by Chile in 1888.
oceania: While not oceanic in nature, Taiwan and Malay Archipelago countries like Indonesia and the Philippines share Austronesian ethnolinguistic origins with Melanesia, Micronesia and Polynesia, hence their inclusion in the book.
oceania: Inhabitants of New Caledonia are French citizens.
oceania: Lewis, Martin W.; Wigen, Kären E.
oceania: The executive power is exercised by the government.
oceania: Hawaii had not yet become a U.S.
oceania: Moreover, a recent study, which included radiocarbon dates from what is thought to be very early material, suggests that the island was discovered and settled as recently as 1200.
oceania: In 1820, the first American missionaries arrived to preach Christianity and teach the Hawaiians Western ways.
oceania: The Marshall Islands were claimed by Spain in 1874.
oceania: In 1887, the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland referred to Australia as the area's westernmost land, while in 1870, British Reverend Alexander Mackay identified the Bonin Islands as its northernmost point, and Macquarie Island as its southernmost point.
oceania: Snow falls frequently on the highlands near the east coast, in the states of Victoria, New South Wales, Tasmania and in the Australian Capital Territory.
oceania: The Indonesian provinces of Papua and West Papua on the island of New Guinea are home to an estimated 44 uncontacted tribal groups.
oceania: The journal associated the term Oceania with the Melanesian, Micronesian, and Polynesian subdivisions, but not with the Indonesian or non-tropical subdivisions.
oceania: Native to Hawaii is the Hawaiian crow, which has been extinct in the wild since 2002.
oceania: It has a large following in Papua New Guinea, where it is the second most popular sport after Rugby League.
oceania: Conditions vary from extremely wet on the West Coast of the South Island to almost semi-arid in Central Otago and subtropical in Northland.
oceania: Australia and New Zealand were responsible for the flat white coffee.
oceania: The music of Hawaii includes traditional and popular styles, ranging from native Hawaiian folk music to modern rock and hip hop.
oceania: Germany established colonies in New Guinea in 1884, and Samoa in 1900.
oceania: European migration to New Zealand provided a major influx following the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi in 1840.
oceania: With regards to Papuan influence, autochthonous haplogroups support the hypothesis of a long history in Near Oceania, with some lineages suggesting a time depth of 60 thousand years.
oceania: There are two major political groups that usually form government, federally and in the states: the Australian Labor Party and the Coalition which is a formal grouping of the Liberal Party and its minor partner, the National Party.
oceania: He listed additional significant islands in the Pacific beyond those in the standard subregions of Oceania.
oceania: 70,000 years ago and arrived in Australia c.
oceania: Their language was named after them.
oceania: The ancestors of the Micronesians settled there over 4,000 years ago.
oceania: Milford Sound in the South Island is acclaimed as New Zealand's most famous tourist destination.
oceania: They are believed to have been Polynesian.
oceania: A decentralized chieftain-based system eventually evolved into a more centralized economic and religious culture centred on Yap and Pohnpei.
oceania: The plate contains an interior hot spot forming the Hawaiian Islands.
oceania: Although they likely migrated to Australia through Southeast Asia, they are not demonstrably related to any known Asian or Polynesian population.
oceania: Indigenous Australian rock art is the oldest and richest unbroken tradition of art in the world, dating as far back as 60,000 years and spread across hundreds of thousands of sites.
oceania: Much of the basement rock of New Zealand was once part of the super-continent of Gondwana, along with South America, Africa, Madagascar, India, Antarctica, and Australia.
oceania: "Australia and Oceania" from National Geographic
Oceania photographs, recordings, and digital objects drawn primarily from the Tuzin Archive for Melanesian Anthropology at the UC San Diego Library.
oceania: Australia's team the Wallabies have won the World Cup twice, despite Rugby union being less popular among Australians.
oceania: Melo Coutinho), the Tanimbar Islands, some of the Caroline Islands (by Gomes de Sequeira in 1525), and west Papua New Guinea (by Jorge de Menezes in 1526).
oceania: In her 1997 book Australia and Oceania, Australian historian Kate Darian-Smith defined the area as covering Australia, New Zealand, and the islands of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: The islands lie on the Nazca Plate with Easter Island and the Galápagos Islands, and have a significant south-central Pacific component to their marine fauna.
oceania: Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea, Wallacea, and the islands of the Pacific Ocean collectively possess 42% of the world's parrot species, including half of all Critically Endangered parrots, many of which are endemic to the region.
oceania: The UN categorizes Oceania, and by extension the Pacific area, as one of the major continental divisions of the world, along with Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Americas.
oceania: American geographer Sophia S.
oceania: The World Factbook define Heard Island and McDonald Islands as part of Antarctica, while placing Christmas Island and Cocos (Keeling) Islands as the westernmost extent of Oceania.
oceania: A major economic and cultural powerhouse of the Southern Hemisphere, Auckland is ranked as a Beta+ world city by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network.
oceania: The state's food exports include coffee, macadamia nuts, pineapple, livestock, sugarcane, and honey.
oceania: It further states:
oceania: Most regions of New Zealand belong to the temperate zone with a maritime climate (Köppen climate classification: Cfb) characterised by four distinct seasons.
oceania: The Pacific Islands Forum expanded during the early 2010s, and areas that were already included in the UN definition of Oceania, such as French Polynesia, gained membership.
oceania: The island states of Indonesia, Japan, the Philippines, Singapore, and Taiwan, all located within the bounds of the Pacific or associated marginal seas, are excluded from the UN definition; already in 1947 Dutch New Guinea was counted as part of Asia.
oceania: Sugar exports and the growing tourist industry are the major sources of foreign exchange.
oceania: Todd further included the Aleutian Islands in his definition of Oceania.
oceania: The country has one of the most globalised economies and depends greatly on international trade – mainly with Australia, Canada, China, the European Union, Japan, Singapore, South Korea and the United States.
oceania: The Ahmadiyya mosque in the Marshall Islands is the only mosque in Micronesia.
oceania: There are numerous difficulties with conducting archaeological excavations in the islands, due to their size, settlement patterns, and storm damage.
oceania: The Myth of Continents: a Critique of Metageography.
oceania: The koala, emu, platypus and kangaroo are national animals of Australia, and the Tasmanian devil is also one of the well-known animals in the country.
oceania: As of 2015, a large proportion of Hawaii's population have Asian ancestry – especially Filipino, Japanese, Korean and Chinese.
oceania: He further included in his definition Sakhalin, an island which is geologically part of the Japanese Archipelago, but that has been administered by Russia since World War II.
oceania: Australian forces attacked German New Guinea in September 1914.
oceania: The passerines of Australia, also known as songbirds or perching birds, include wrens, the magpie group, thornbills, corvids, pardalotes, lyrebirds.
oceania: The countries and territories in this table are categorised according to the scheme for geographic subregions used by the United Nations.
oceania: These regions are usually considered to be part of Maritime Southeast Asia.
oceania: 50,000 years ago.
oceania: Micronesia, which lies north of the equator and west of the International Date Line, includes the Mariana Islands in the northwest, the Caroline Islands in the centre, the Marshall Islands to the west and the islands of Kiribati in the southeast.
oceania: Oceania (UK:  OH-s(h)ee-AH-nee-ə, -⁠AY-, US:   OH-shee-A(H)N-ee-ə) is a geographical region including Australasia, Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: In Samoan politics, the Prime Minister of Samoa is the head of government.
oceania: Birds breeding on Pitcairn include the fairy tern, common noddy, and red-tailed tropicbird.
oceania: In Kiribati, a Parliamentary regime, the President of Kiribati is the head of state and government, and of a multi-party system.
oceania: At around the same time, art began to appear in New Guinea, including the earliest examples of sculpture in Oceania.
oceania: Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) studies quantify the magnitude of the Austronesian expansion and demonstrate the homogenising effect of this expansion.
oceania: Vanuatu is the only country in Oceania to call association football its national sport.
oceania: The islands, now politically associated with Alaska, have historically had inhabitants that were related to Indigenous Americans, in addition to having non-tropical biogeography similar to that of Alaska and Siberia.
oceania: He was the first known European explorer to reach these islands.
oceania: This has contributed $1 billion or more to Fiji's economy since 1995, but the Government of Fiji likely underestimates these figures due to the invisible economy inside the tourism industry.
oceania: Federated States of Micronesia, Marshall Islands, Nauru and Palau all have no presence, primarily due to lack of infrastructure and logistical difficulties related to Micronesia's remoteness.
oceania: In the politics of Papua New Guinea the Prime Minister is the head of government, and the head of state is the monarch of the United Kingdom, represented by a Governor-General.
oceania: In his 1879 book Australasia, British naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace commented that, geographers commonly used Oceania to refer to the Pacific islands, with Australia as its central landmass.
oceania: The Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei, and most of Indonesia are not usually considered to be part of the region of Oceania as it is understood today.
oceania: High islands are of volcanic origin, and many contain active volcanoes.
oceania: Some of the most prominent Oceanic battlegrounds were the Battle of Bita Paka, the Solomon Islands campaign, the Air raids on Darwin, the Kokoda Track, and the Borneo campaign.
oceania: Another dance performed by males is called the fa'ataupati or the slap dance, creating rhythmic sounds by slapping different parts of the body.
oceania: The subject matter typically carries themes of fertility or the supernatural.
oceania: The states of Hong Kong and Malaysia, located in both mainland Asia and marginal seas of the Pacific, are also excluded, as are Brunei, East Timor, and Indonesian New Guinea/Western New Guinea.
oceania: It is almost entirely oceanic crust.
oceania: It is here that James Cook made first contact with an Aboriginal tribe known as the Gweagal.
oceania: The highest recorded temperature in Oceania occurred in Oodnadatta, South Australia (2 January 1960) and in Onslow, Western Australia (13 January 2022), both of which recorded a Temperature of 50.7 °C (123.3 °F).
oceania: Scottish author Robert Hope Moncrieff considered Clipperton to be the easternmost point of Oceania in 1907, while Ian Todd also included it in his definition of Oceania in Island Realm: A Pacific Panorama.
oceania: Australia and New Zealand were grouped by Flick as Australasia and categorized as being in the same area of the world as the islands of Oceania.
oceania: Oceania was first explored by Europeans from the 16th century onwards.
oceania: The most popular overall sport in Australia is cricket, with their national team having won the Cricket World Cup a record five times.
oceania: New Caledonia, Hawai'i ʻi, and French Polynesia are highly developed too, but are not sovereign states.
oceania: Licensed under CC BY 4.0 (license statement/permission).
oceania: Contact between Austronesian and Papuan resulted in several instances in mixed languages such as Maisin.
oceania: Beginning c.
oceania: Desert or semi-arid land commonly known as the outback makes up by far the largest portion of land.
oceania: The Hawaiian religion is polytheistic and animistic, with a belief in many deities and spirits, including the belief that spirits are found in non-human beings and objects such as animals, the waves, and the sky.
oceania: Around 1200, Tahitian explorers discovered and began settling the area.
oceania: There is evidence of genetic and linguistic interchange between Australians in the far north and the Austronesian peoples of modern-day New Guinea and the islands, but this may be the result of recent trade and intermarriage.
oceania: In 1814 another French cartographer, Adrien-Hubert Brué, coined from this expression the shorter Océanie, which derives from the Latin word oceanus, and this from the Greek word ὠκεανός (ōkeanós), 'ocean'.
oceania: Almost 13,000 Portuguese immigrants had arrived by 1899; they also worked on the sugarcane plantations.
oceania: Other non-tropical areas below the equator, such as Chiloé Island, Macquarie Island, Tasmania, and the southern portions of mainland Australia and New Zealand, were not included in this category.
oceania: It was politically associated with Australia and Tasmania by 1870.
oceania: The earliest definite human remains found in Australia are those of Mungo Man, which have been dated at c.
oceania: The CIA World Factbook also categorizes Oceania as one of the major continental divisions of the world, but the name "Australia and Oceania" is used.
oceania: Australians view sport as an important part of their cultural identity, and the country performs well on the international stage, despite having a relatively small population.
oceania: The Anson archipelago included phantom islands such as Ganges Island and Los Jardines which were proven to not exist, as well as real islands such as Marcus Island and Wake Island.
oceania: The other main Melanesian groups from north to south are the Bismarck Archipelago, the Solomon Islands, the Santa Cruz Islands, Vanuatu, Fiji, and New Caledonia.
oceania: He added that Hawaii was the most northerly area to be inhabited by races associated with Oceania.
oceania: The Pacific Games (formerly known as the South Pacific Games) is a multi-sport event, much like the Olympics on a much smaller scale, with participation exclusively from countries around the Pacific; Australia and New Zealand competed in the games for the first time in 2015.
oceania: Most islands in the Pacific are high islands (volcanic islands), such as Easter Island, American Samoa, and Fiji, among others, having peaks up to 1300 m rising abruptly from the shore.
oceania: Popular Australian destinations include the Sydney Harbour (Sydney Opera House, Sydney Harbour Bridge, Royal Botanic Garden, etc.), Gold Coast (theme parks such as Warner Bros.
oceania: A parliamentary general election must be called no later than three years after the previous election.
oceania: According to scientific journal PLOS One, the Humboldt Current helps create a biogeographic barrier between the marine fauna of these islands and South America.
oceania: insignis – are represented in the wild by around 120 individual plants.
oceania: 1100 CE, the people of Easter Island would begin construction of nearly 900 moai (large stone statues).
oceania: Bartholomew described Oceania as one of six major world divisions, including Australia and Pacific islands.
oceania: These industries play a small role in the Hawaiian economy, due to the shipping distance to viable markets, such as the West Coast of the contiguous U.S.
oceania: In 1519, a Spanish expedition led by Ferdinand Magellan sailed down the east coast of South America, found and sailed through the strait that bears his name, and on 28 November 1520 entered the ocean which he named "Pacific".
oceania: Rand McNally & Company, an American publisher of maps and atlases, defined Oceania as including Australia and the Pacific islands while classifying the Malay Archipelago as part of Asia.
oceania: In 1789, the mutiny on the Bounty against William Bligh led to several of the mutineers escaping the Royal Navy and settling on Pitcairn Islands, which later became a British colony.
oceania: Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Parliament of Fiji.
oceania: Santa Cruz, a population located in Remote Oceania, is an anomaly with extreme frequencies of autochthonous haplogroups of Near Oceanian origin.
oceania: In Tonga, everyday life is heavily influenced by Polynesian traditions and especially by the Christian faith.
oceania: The attack on Pearl Harbor by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters, was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of 7 December 1941.
oceania: Islands in marginal seas of the Pacific were also covered in the book, including Alaska's Pribilof Islands and China's Hainan.
oceania: Portuguese navigators, between 1512 and 1526, reached the Maluku Islands (by António de Abreu and Francisco Serrão in 1512), Timor, the Aru Islands (Martim A.
oceania: Publication Missionary Review of the World claimed in 1895 that Oceania was divided into five groups: Australasia, Malesia, Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: The King is represented in Australia by the Governor-General at the federal level and by the Governors at the state level, who by convention act on the advice of his ministers.
oceania: In Hawaii, one endemic plant, Brighamia, now requires hand-pollination because its natural pollinator is presumed to be extinct.
oceania: It is extremely rare at sea level in the North Island.
oceania: A 2011 survey found that 92% in Melanesia, 93% in Micronesia and 96% in Polynesia described themselves as Christians.
oceania: Tyler described Australia as "the leviathan of the island groups of the world".
oceania: In terms of marine fauna, Clipperton shares similarities with areas of the Pacific which are much farther removed from the Americas.
oceania: They became known as the Chamorros.
oceania: The three remaining ships, led by Magellan and his captains Duarte Barbosa and João Serrão, then sailed north and caught the trade winds which carried them across the Pacific to the Philippines, where Magellan was killed.
oceania: Australia has hosted five editions of the Commonwealth Games and New Zealand three times.
oceania: Known indigenous tribes in Papua New Guinea have very little contact with local authorities aside from the authorities knowing who they are.
oceania: To the southwest of the region, in the Australian landmass, the climate is mostly desert or semi-arid, with the southern coastal corners having a temperate climate, such as oceanic and humid subtropical climate in the east coast and Mediterranean climate in the west.
oceania: Easter Island and the Galápagos Islands were defined by James as falling within the organization's geographical parameters.
oceania: Spanish and Dutch explorers followed, then British and French.
oceania: 3000 and 1000 BCE, speakers of Austronesian languages began spreading from Taiwan into Island Southeast Asia, as tribes whose natives were thought to have arrived through South China c.
oceania: New Caledonia sends two representatives to the French National Assembly and two senators to the French Senate.
oceania: In the archaeological record, there are well-defined traces of this expansion that allow the path it took to be followed and dated with some certainty.
oceania: rockii and B.
oceania: A more popular and practical definition excludes Indonesia, East Malaysia (Borneo), the Philippines, Taiwan, Japan, and other islands closely related to the Asian mainland, as well as the Aleutians and the small island groups situated near the Americas.
oceania: It is certainly not necessary to consider the Hawaiian Islands and Australia as being in the same part of the world; it is, however, permissible to unite in one group all the islands which are scattered over the great ocean.
oceania: On 1 May 1979, in recognition of the evolving political status of the Marshall Islands, the United States recognised the constitution of the Marshall Islands and the establishment of the government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
oceania: The most inclusive–but not always the most useful–embraces about 25,000 land areas between Asia and the Americas.
oceania: The island of Hawaii, for example, hosts 4 (out of 5 in total) climate groups on a surface as small as 10,430 km2 (4,028 sq mi) according to the Köppen climate types: tropical, arid, temperate, and polar.
oceania: The lowest temperature ever recorded in Oceania was −25.6 °C (−14.1 °F), at Ranfurly in Otago in 1903, with a more recent temperature of −21.6 °C (−6.9 °F) recorded in 1995 in nearby Ophir.
oceania: These early peoples lacked a writing system, and made works on perishable materials, so few records of them exist from this time.
oceania: As with Australia and New Zealand, Melanesia's New Caledonia has a significant non-indigenous European population, numbering around 71,000.
oceania: The first migration of Australo-Melanesians took place c.
oceania: Oceania was first explored by Europeans from the 16th century onward.
oceania: Related to these concepts are Near Oceania, that part of western Island Melanesia which has been inhabited for tens of millennia, and Remote Oceania, which is more recently settled.
oceania: Rugby union is the most popular sport among New Zealanders, and they are second only to South Africa for the most Rugby World Cup titles, having won the tournament three times.
oceania: The original UN definition of Oceania from 1947 included these same countries and semi-independent territories, which were mostly still colonies at that point.
oceania: The goanna is a predatory lizard native to the Australian mainland.
oceania: Items of great cultural value include the finely woven 'ie toga.
oceania: These adaptations are common in species from the large and well-known families Proteaceae (Banksia), Myrtaceae (Eucalyptus – gum trees), and Fabaceae (Acacia – wattle).
oceania: Both were uninhabited when discovered by Europeans during the 17th century.
oceania: The Baháʼí House of Worship in Tiapapata, Samoa, is one of seven designations administered in the Baháʼí Faith.
oceania: The national cuisine has been described as Pacific Rim, incorporating the native Māori cuisine and diverse culinary traditions introduced by settlers and immigrants from Europe, Polynesia, and Asia.
oceania: Since 1945, more than 7 million people have settled in Australia.
oceania: American geographer Jesse Olney's 1845 book A Practical System of Modern Geography defined Oceania as consisting of the many islands of the Pacific located southeast of Asia.
oceania: The rocks that now form the continent of Zealandia were nestled between Eastern Australia and Western Antarctica.
oceania: Excluded under most definitions of Oceania are the Pacific landmasses of Taiwan, the Ryukyu Islands, and the Japanese archipelago, which are all on the margins of Asia, as well as the Aleutian Islands and other Alaskan or Canadian islands.
oceania: Sculpture in Oceania first appears on New Guinea as a series of stone figures found throughout the island, but mostly in the mountainous highlands.
oceania: Within Australian political culture, the Coalition is considered centre-right and the Labor Party is considered centre-left.
oceania: In the late 20th century, some scholars theorized a long period of interaction, which resulted in many complex changes in genetics, languages, and culture among the peoples.
oceania: In the tropical and subtropical Pacific, the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) affects weather conditions.
oceania: Australia was also not included, as it was settled several thousand of years before the arrival of Austronesian-speaking peoples in Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: The geology of New Zealand is noted for its volcanic activity, earthquakes, and geothermal areas because of its position on the boundary of the Australian Plate and Pacific Plates.
oceania: Jupp, James (2001).
oceania: However, it is also the most popular sport in Kiribati, Solomon Islands and Tuvalu, and has a significant (and growing) popularity in Australia.
oceania: Prince Philip Movement is followed around Yaohnanen village on the southern island of Tanna in Vanuatu.
oceania: On 23 April 1770, British explorer James Cook made his first recorded direct observation of Aboriginal Australians at Brush Island near Bawley Point.
oceania: Since the mid-20th century, American popular culture has strongly influenced Australia, particularly through television and cinema.
oceania: Volcanic islands which are geologically associated with continental landmasses, such as the Aleutian Islands, Japan's Izu Islands, the Kuril Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and most of the Solomon Islands, were also excluded from his definition.
oceania: The book observed that a native Polynesian language was still understood on Easter Island, unlike on the other islands, which were uninhabited when discovered by Europeans and were mostly being used as prisons for convicts.
oceania: Art of Oceania properly encompasses the artistic traditions of the people indigenous to Australia and the Pacific Islands.
oceania: At 103 million square kilometres (40,000,000 sq mi), it is the largest tectonic plate.
oceania: By their definition, Near Oceania consists of New Guinea, the Bismarck Archipelago, and the Solomon Islands, except the Santa Cruz Islands.
oceania: The term Oceania is used because, unlike the other continental groupings, it is the ocean that links the parts of the region together.
oceania: Hawaii is a majority-minority state.
oceania: The brown tree snake is native to northern and eastern coasts of Australia, Papua New Guinea, Guam, and Solomon Islands.
oceania: In New Zealand, Hindus form 2.65% of the population of.
oceania: Berkeley: University of California Press.
oceania: The city's New Year's Eve celebrations are the largest in Oceania.
oceania: Clipperton is not politically associated with the Americas, as is the case with other oceanic islands near the Americas, having had almost no interaction with the continent throughout its history.
oceania: The 1982 edition of the South Pacific Handbook, by David Stanley, groups Australia, New Zealand, Norfolk Island, and Hawaiʻi together under an "Anglonesia" category.
oceania: The mix includes species with unusual biology, such as the kākāpō, which is the world's only flightless, nocturnal, lek-breeding parrot, but also many species that are similar to neighbouring land areas.
oceania: Cultural customs such as the Samoa 'ava ceremony are significant and solemn rituals at important occasions, including the bestowal of matai chiefly titles.
oceania: Olney divided up Oceania into three groups; Australasia (which included Australia, New Guinea, and New Zealand), Malesia and Polynesia (which included the combined islands of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia in his definition).
oceania: The Pacific Islands are ruled by a tropical rainforest and tropical savanna climate.
oceania: The birds of New Zealand evolved into an avifauna that included a large number of endemic species.
oceania: Thus, Oceania most commonly refers to the land areas of the South and Central Pacific.
oceania: The Big Bog on the island of Maui is the wettest place, receiving an average 10,271 mm (404.4 in) each year.
oceania: University of New South Wales Press.
oceania: Despite this, Australia is rarely seen as a part of the subregion.
oceania: Mercer Quality of Living Survey ranks Sydney tenth in the world in terms of quality of living, making it one of the most livable cities.
oceania: Approximately half of the population on these islands are European Australian mainlanders (with smaller numbers being European New Zealanders), while the other half are immigrants from China or the nearby Malay Archipelago.
oceania: Alfred Russel Wallace believed in 1879 that Oceania extended to the Aleutian Islands, which are among the northernmost islands of the Pacific.
oceania: 40 to 80 thousand years ago, and these migrants, Papuans, colonised much of Near Oceania.
oceania: Additionally, the book includes Taiwan and the entire Malay Archipelago as part of Oceania.
oceania: The culture of the people who lived on these islands was often distinct from that of Asia and pre-Columbian America.
oceania: Earthquakes are common, though usually not severe, averaging 3,000 per year.
oceania: The ninth season of the reality TV series Survivor was filmed in Vanuatu, entitled Survivor: Vanuatu – Islands of Fire.
oceania: Scottish academic John Merry Ross in 1879 considered Polynesia to cover the entire South and Central Pacific area, not just islands ethnographically within Polynesia.
oceania: The prehistories of many Micronesian islands, such as Yap, are not known very well.
oceania: There are 18 peaks of more than 3000 metres (9800 ft) in the South Island.
oceania: The United States also expanded into the Pacific, beginning with Baker Island and Howland Island in 1857, and with Hawaiʻi becoming a US territory in 1898.
oceania: 1200 CE, the people of Pohnpei, a Micronesian island, would embark on another megalithic construction, building Nan Madol, a city of artificial islands and a system of canals.
oceania: John Eperjesi's 2005 book The Imperialist Imaginary says that Since the mid-19th century, Western cartographers have used the term Oceania to organize and classify the Pacific region.
oceania: The largest and most populous country in Oceania is Australia, and the largest city is Sydney.
oceania: Fogg defined Oceania, or "the Maritime World," as being divided into three major subregions: Australasia, Malesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: The aptly named Pacific kingfisher is found in the Pacific Islands, as is the Red-vented bulbul, Polynesian starling, Brown goshawk, Pacific Swallow and the Cardinal myzomela, among others.
oceania: Native to Australia, New Guinea and proximate islands are birds of paradise, honeyeaters, Australasian treecreeper, Australasian robin, kingfishers, butcherbirds, and bowerbirds.
oceania: In 2012, Australia was the 12th largest national economy by nominal GDP and the 19th-largest measured by PPP-adjusted GDP.
oceania: In 2011, Hawaiʻi saw increasing arrivals and share of foreign tourists from Canada, Australia, and China increasing 13%, 24% and 21% respectively from 2010.
oceania: The South Pacific Commission is a developmental organization formed in 1947 and is currently known as the Pacific Community; its members include Australia and other Pacific Islands Forum members.
oceania: The economy diversified and by 2008, tourism had become the single biggest generator of foreign exchange.
oceania: In recent Australian and New Zealand censuses, large proportions of the population say they belong to "no religion" (which includes atheism, agnosticism, deism, and secular humanism).
oceania: In its broadest definition, Oceania embraces all islands and island groups of the Pacific Ocean that lie between Asia and the two American continents.
oceania: Most Indigenous Australian tribal groups subsisted on a simple hunter-gatherer diet of native fauna and flora, otherwise called bush tucker.
oceania: The new terms Near Oceania and Remote Oceania were proposed in 1973 by anthropologists Roger Green and Andrew Pawley.
oceania: 2,000 years ago, but they were uninhabited at the time of European discovery in the 16th century.
oceania: Puerto Rican immigration to Hawaii began in 1899 when Puerto Rico's sugar industry was devastated by two hurricanes, causing a worldwide shortage of sugar and a huge demand for sugar from Hawaii.
oceania: Conversely, New Caledonia has still had a similar history to the rest of Melanesia, and their French-speaking Europeans make up only 27% of the total population.
oceania: New Zealand's 1983 Closer Economic Relations agreement with Australia means that the economy aligns closely with that of Australia.
oceania: One of the most dramatic is the Great Barrier Reef off northeastern Australia with chains of reef patches.
oceania: The Spanish explorer Alonso de Salazar landed in the Marshall Islands in 1529.
oceania: Modern-day Indigenous Australians are loosely related to Melanesians, and Australia maintains political influence over Melanesia, which is mostly located on the same tectonic plate.
oceania: Todd defined the oceanic Bonin Islands as making up a Japanese language segment of Oceania, and excluded the main Japanese archipelago.
oceania: Fiji and Tonga became independent in 1970.
oceania: Since 1788, the primary influence behind Australian culture has been Anglo-Celtic Western culture, with some Indigenous influences.
oceania: The Oxford Handbook of World History (2011) describes the Oceania is often treated as a secondary topic in world history, appearing at the end of global narratives as a marginal region.
oceania: In its periphery, Oceania's islands would sprawl 28 degrees north to the Bonin Islands in the Northern Hemisphere, and 55 degrees south to Macquarie Island in the Southern Hemisphere.
oceania: Australia, New Zealand and the islands of Melanesia are more commonly grouped together as part of the Australasian biogeographical realm.
oceania: In 1946, Polynesians were granted French citizenship, and the islands' status was changed to an overseas territory; the islands' name was changed in 1957 to Polynésie Française (French Polynesia).
oceania: Easter Islanders claimed that a chief Hotu Matuꞌa discovered the island in one or two large canoes with his wife and extended family.
oceania: The coral reefs of the South Pacific are low-lying structures that have built up on basaltic lava flows under the ocean's surface.
oceania: The first settlers introduced British food to the continent, much of which is now considered typical Australian food, such as the Sunday roast.
oceania: The first people of the Northern Mariana Islands navigated to the islands and discovered it at some period between 4000 BCE to 2000 BCE from Southeast Asia.
oceania: Under a four subregion model, the islands of Oceania extend to New Guinea in the west, the Bonin Islands in the northwest, the Hawaiian Islands in the northeast, Easter Island and Sala y Gómez Island in the east, and Macquarie Island in the south.
oceania: Geological forces such as tectonic uplift of mountain ranges or clashes between tectonic plates occurred mainly in Australia's early history, when it was still a part of Gondwana.
oceania: The New Zealand recording industry began to develop from 1940 onwards and many New Zealand musicians have obtained success in Britain and the United States.
oceania: He did not explicitly label Oceania a continent in the book, but did note that it was one of the six major divisions of the world.
oceania: Cambridge University Press.
oceania: Less isolated oceanic islands that were once uninhabited, such as the Bonin Islands, the Galápagos Islands and the Juan Fernández Islands, have since been sparsely populated by citizens of their political administrators.
oceania: The 1960 constitution, which formally came into force with independence from New Zealand in 1962, builds on the British pattern of parliamentary democracy, modified to take account of Samoan customs.
oceania: New Zealand marks two national days of remembrance, Waitangi Day and ANZAC Day, and also celebrates many holidays such as the King's Birthday, Labour Day, and Christmas Day, as well as public anniversaries of the founding dates of most regions.
oceania: The Australian people: an encyclopedia of the nation, its people, and their origins.
oceania: Worcester described Oceania as a collection of numerous Pacific islands, categorizing it as one of the world's five major divisions.
oceania: state in 1947, and as such was part of the original UN definition of Oceania.
oceania: Webster broke Oceania up into two subdivisions: the continental group, which included Australia, the Japanese archipelago, the Malay Archipelago, and Taiwan, and the oceanic group, which included New Zealand and the islands of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: It additionally commented:
oceania: Micronesian colonists gradually settled the Marshall Islands during the 2nd millennium BCE, with inter-island navigation made possible using traditional stick charts.
oceania: In a 1947 article on the formation of the South Pacific Commission for the Pacific Affairs journal, author Roy E.
oceania: In 2015, there were 7.4 million visitor arrivals.
oceania: Regarding Australia and the Pacific, Chambers's New Handy Volume American Encyclopædia observed in 1885 that, the term "Oceania" has been used interchangeably with "Australasia," though often excluding the Malay Archipelago, which some writers referred to as "Malesia".
oceania: In his 1857 book A Treatise on Physical Geography, Francis B.
oceania: These regions, as well as the large East Asian islands of Taiwan, Hainan, and the Japanese archipelago, have varying degrees of cultural connections.
oceania: Australia is a federal parliamentary constitutional monarchy with Charles III at its apex as the King of Australia, a role that is distinct from his position as monarch of the other Commonwealth realms.
oceania: The predominant religion in Oceania is Christianity (73%).
oceania: New Zealand was categorized by him as being in Polynesia; and the only country in his definition of Australasia was Australia.
oceania: They are now often referred to as Maritime Southeast Asia, with Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Singapore being founding members of the ASEAN regional organization for Southeast Asia in 1967 (Brunei and East Timor did not exist as independent nations at that point).
oceania: Many remain preliterate and, at the national or international level, the names of tribes and information about them are extremely hard to obtain.
oceania: There are a considerable number of Pacific Islands outside the tropics.
oceania: Styles such as slack-key guitar are well known worldwide, while Hawaiian-tinged music is a frequent part of Hollywood soundtracks.
oceania: Between 2001 and 2007, Australia's Pacific Solution policy transferred asylum seekers to several Pacific nations, including the Nauru detention centre.
oceania: On 29 April, Cook and crew made their first landfall on the mainland of the continent at a place now known as the Kurnell Peninsula.
oceania: The Samoan word for dance is siva, which consists of unique, gentle movements of the body in time to music and which tell a story.
oceania: Chile's government also categorizes Easter Island, the Desventuradas Islands, and the Juan Fernández Islands as being part of a region titled Insular Chile.
oceania: It is believed that the first early human migration to Australia was achieved when this landmass formed part of the Sahul continent, connected to the island of New Guinea via a land bridge.
oceania: The book defined Oceania's major subregions as being Australia, Indonesia (which included all areas associated with the Malay Archipelago), Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: To ensure these plants set seed, biologists rappel down 910-metre (3,000 ft) cliffs to brush pollen onto their stigmas.
oceania: Many meanings have been given to the word Oceania.
oceania: The Journal of the Royal Statistical Society stated in 1892 that Australia was a large island within Oceania rather than a small continent.
oceania: The original inhabitants of the group of islands now named Melanesia were likely the ancestors of the present-day Papuan-speaking people.
oceania: Pohnpei of the Senyavin Islands in Micronesia is the wettest settlement in Oceania, and one of the wettest places on earth, with annual recorded rainfall exceeding 7,600 mm (300 in) each year in certain mountainous locations.
oceania: Along with India, most of Australasia lies on the Indo-Australian Plate with the latter occupying the Southern area.
oceania: In this book, the other two continents were categorized as being the New World (the Americas) and the Old World (Afro-Eurasia).
oceania: In addition, the series of sovereign island nations fringing Asia (Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines, East Malaysia, the Republic of Indonesia) is not ordinarily considered to be part of the area.
oceania: But in the case of the Galápagos, at least, this is different." The Juan Fernández Islands and the neighbouring Desventuradas Islands are today seen as the easternmost extension of the Indo-West Pacific biogeographic region.
oceania: Auckland is home to over half (51.6 percent) of New Zealand's overseas born population, including 72 percent of the country's Pacific Island-born population, 64 percent of its Asian-born population, and 56 percent of its Middle Eastern and African born population.
oceania: In 2006, Australia left the Oceania Football Confederation (OFC) for the Asian Football Confederation (AFC), and their men's team the Socceroos has qualified for every subsequent FIFA World Cup as an Asian entrant.
oceania: The Gilbert Islands (now known as Kiribati) and the Ellice Islands (now known as Tuvalu) came under Britain's sphere of influence in the late 19th century.
oceania: New Zealand's economy is the 53rd-largest in the world measured by nominal gross domestic product (GDP) and 68th-largest in the world measured by purchasing power parity (PPP).
oceania: Wallace insisted while the surface area of this wide definition was greater than that of Asia and Europe combined, the land area was only a little greater than that of Europe.
oceania: The Torres Strait Islanders are indigenous to the Torres Strait Islands, which are at the northernmost tip of Queensland near Papua New Guinea.
oceania: Conrad Malte-Brun in 1824 defined Oceania as covering Australia, New Zealand, the islands of Polynesia (which then included all the Pacific islands) and the Malay Archipelago.
oceania: The main produce from the Pacific is copra or coconut, but timber, beef, palm oil, cocoa, sugar, and ginger are also commonly grown across the tropics of the Pacific.
oceania: Sugar cane processing makes up one-third of industrial activity.
oceania: James stated the organization's scope encompassed all non-self-governing islands below the equator to the east of Papua New Guinea (which itself was included in the scope and then known as Dutch New Guinea).
oceania: Koppers wrote in the 2009 book Encyclopedia of Islands that, "as a whole, the islands of the Pacific Region are referred to as Oceania, the tenth continent on earth.
oceania: New Zealand has a large GDP for its population of 5.2 million, and sources of revenue are spread throughout the large island nation.
oceania: The Bonin Islands are in the same biogeographical realm as the geographically adjacent Micronesia, and are often grouped in with the subregion because of this.
oceania: New Zealand is also one of the most globalised economies and depends greatly on international trade.
oceania: By 1500 BCE, the Lapita culture, descendants of the second wave, would begin to expand and spread into the more remote islands.
oceania: A unique feature of Australia's fauna is the relative scarcity of native placental mammals, and dominance of the marsupials – a group of mammals that raise their young in a pouch, including the macropods, possums, and dasyuromorphs.
oceania: Aside from mainland Australia, areas that she identified as of high importance were Borneo, Hawaii, Indonesia's Java and Sumatra, New Guinea, New Zealand, the Philippines, French Polynesia's Society Islands, Tasmania, and Tonga.
oceania: New Zealand is identified as one of the world's most stable and well-governed states, with high government transparency and among the lowest perceived levels of corruption.
oceania: Through immigration and high Māori birth rates, New Zealand has attained the largest population of Polynesians in the world, while Australia has the third largest Polynesian population (consisting entirely of immigrants).
oceania: Cornell claimed that the Aleutian Islands were not part of Oceania in 1857.
oceania: The divergence and evolution that has occurred in the ensuing centuries has resulted in a distinctive Australian culture.
oceania: Petroglyphs, tattooing, painting, wood carving, stone carving, and textile work are other common art forms.
oceania: French writer Gustave d'Eichthal remarked in 1844 that Oceania's boundaries extended across the entire Pacific Ocean.
oceania: Indigenous Australians are the original inhabitants of the Australian continent and nearby islands who migrated from Africa to Asia c.
oceania: ISBN 0-19-553597-9.
oceania: This is due to their location in the centre of the Pacific, their biogeography and their oceanic geology.
oceania: Archaeological evidence suggests that Micronesians may have lived on the Bonin Islands c.
oceania: A second island type formed of coral is the uplifted coral platform, which is usually slightly larger than the low coral islands.
oceania: The Galápagos Islands, the Juan Fernández Islands, and the Revillagigedo Islands were identified as the easternmost areas of Oceania in the book.
oceania: The United States fought the Battle of Guam from 21 July to 10 August 1944, to recapture the island from Japanese military occupation.
oceania: Hawaii's tallest mountain Mauna Kea is 4,205 m (13,796 ft) above mean sea level.
oceania: It is flanked by the Indian Ocean to the west and the Southern Ocean to the south.
oceania: He wrote in The Globe Encyclopedia of Universal Information that, in its broadest sense, Polynesia could include islands spanning from Sumatra to the Galápagos, along with Australia.
oceania: The national government (malo) generally controls the legislative assembly.
oceania: International tourist spending accounted for 16% of New Zealand's export earnings (nearly NZ$10 billion).
oceania: The governor is elected statewide.
oceania: British physician and ethnologist James Cowles Prichard stated that the Aleutian and Kuril Islands, along with the coasts of Asia and America, marked the northern boundary of Oceania.
oceania: Predominant bird species in the country include the Australian magpie, Australian raven, the pied currawong, crested pigeons and the laughing kookaburra.
oceania: On 24 September 1853, under orders from Napoleon III, Admiral Febvrier Despointes took formal possession of New Caledonia.
oceania: The Australia-New Zealand continental fragment of Gondwana split from the rest of Gondwana in the late Cretaceous time (95–90 Ma).
oceania: The country's diverse scenery and compact size, plus government incentives, have encouraged some producers to film big budget movies in New Zealand, including Avatar, The Lord of the Rings, The Hobbit, The Chronicles of Narnia, King Kong and The Last Samurai.
oceania: Particularly along the north coast of New Guinea and in the islands north and east of New Guinea, the Austronesian people, who had migrated into the area somewhat more than 3,000 years ago, came into contact with these pre-existing populations of Papuan-speaking peoples.
oceania: Hawaiian exports include food and clothing.
oceania: PLOS One describes Insular Chile as having "cultural and ecological connections to the broader insular Pacific."
oceania: It notes that, "the term [has] also come under scrutiny by many geographers.
oceania: In their 2019 book Women and Violence: Global Lives in Focus, Kathleen Nadeau and Sangita Rayamajhi wrote:
oceania: Furthermore, 36 percent of the population reported having been born overseas, with top countries being Italy, Lebanon, Vietnam, and Iraq, among others.
oceania: The geographer Conrad Malte-Brun coined the French expression Terres océaniques ('Oceanic lands') c.
oceania: The current inhabitants are mostly European Australians, and the UN categorizes it as being in the Australasia subregion.
oceania: His definition of Polynesia included both Easter Island and Hawaii, which had not yet been annexed by either Chile or the United States.
oceania: In Papua New Guinea, the most popular sport is Rugby league.
oceania: Large areas of New Guinea are unexplored by scientists and anthropologists due to extensive deforestation and mountainous terrain.
oceania: Australia became part of the Indo-Australian Plate 45 to 40 million years ago, and this is in the process of separating again, with the Australian Plate being relevant to Oceania.
oceania: Despite centuries of European influence, Samoa maintains its historical customs, social and political systems, and language.
oceania: His expedition became the first recorded Europeans to have encountered its eastern coastline of Australia.
oceania: In 1842, Tahiti and Tahuata were declared a French protectorate, to allow Catholic missionaries to work undisturbed.
oceania: 7 to 30 million years ago, as shield volcanoes over the same volcanic hotspot that formed the Emperor Seamounts to the north and the Main Hawaiian Islands to the south.
oceania: He did not include the volcanic Kuril Islands and Ryukyu Islands, which similarly border both the Eurasian Plate and the Pacific Plate, nor did he include the neighbouring Kodiak archipelago in the North Pacific Ocean, which is firmly situated on the North American Plate.
oceania: In 1905, the British government transferred some administrative responsibility over southeast New Guinea to Australia (which renamed the area "Territory of Papua"), and in 1906, transferred all remaining responsibility to Australia.
oceania: In 2005, the World Bank praised New Zealand as the most business-friendly country in the world.
oceania: Native languages of Oceania fall into three major geographic groups:
oceania: American author Samuel Griswold Goodrich wrote in his 1854 book History of All Nations that, some 19th-century geographers classified the Pacific islands as a third continent called Oceania, alongside the New and Old Worlds.
oceania: The Australian Defence Force is by far the largest military force in Oceania.
oceania: French Catholic missionaries arrived on Tahiti in 1834; their expulsion in 1836 caused France to send a gunboat in 1838.
oceania: In the financial year 2014/15, tourism represented 3% of Australia's GDP contributing A$47.5 billion to the national economy.
oceania: Portuguese explorers, between 1512 and 1526, reached the Tanimbar Islands, some of the Caroline Islands, and west New Guinea.
oceania: As codified in the Hawaiian Constitution, there are three branches of government: executive, legislative, and judicial.
oceania: Cocos Island and Malpelo Island were not explicitly referenced in the book, despite being areas that would fall within this range.
oceania: In the 2018 census, 37% of New Zealanders affiliated themselves with Christianity, and 48% declared no religion.
oceania: Their definition does not include all of Australia's external territories, but is otherwise the same as the UN's definition, and is also used for statistical purposes.
oceania: This date range is based on glottochronological calculations and on three radiocarbon dates from charcoal that appears to have been produced during forest clearance activities.
oceania: The country has been broadened by globalisation and immigration, specifically from Oceania, Europe, and Asia.
oceania: Australia's Indian Ocean external territory Heard Island and McDonald Islands lie on the Antarctic Plate and are also thought of as being in Antarctica or no region at all, due to their extreme geographical isolation.
oceania: The most diverse country of Oceania when it comes to the environment is Australia, with tropical rainforests in the north-east, mountain ranges in the south-east, south-west, and east, and a desert in the centre.
oceania: The New Zealand dollar is the 10th-most traded currency in the world.
oceania: Hinduism is a minority faith in Oceania.
oceania: Hawaii also made a major contribution to country music with the introduction of the steel guitar.
oceania: The OFC was dominated by Australia for many years, and became known for one-sided results.
oceania: Cultural history in Australia.
oceania: Snow falls in New Zealand's South Island and at higher altitudes in the North Island.
oceania: Melbourne is also fairly multicultural, having the largest Greek-speaking population outside of Europe, and the second largest Asian population in Australia after Sydney.
oceania: Spanning the Eastern and Western hemispheres, at the centre of the water hemisphere, Oceania is estimated to have a land area of about 9,000,000 square kilometres (3,500,000 sq mi) and a population of around 46.3 million as of 2024, when including Australia but excluding the Malay Archipelago.
oceania: He also viewed Oceania as covering Australia, New Zealand, the Malay Archipelago and the islands of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: Fiji has a multiparty system with the Prime Minister of Fiji as head of government.
oceania: The earliest archaeological traces of civilization have been found on the island of Saipan, dated to 1500 BCE or slightly before.
oceania: New Caledonia remains an integral part of the French Republic.
oceania: As with other Polynesian cultures (Hawaiian, Tahitian, and Māori) with significant and unique tattoos, Samoans have two gender specific and culturally significant tattoos.
oceania: Cocos Island and Malpelo Island are the only landmasses located on the Cocos Plate, which is to the north of the Nazca Plate.
oceania: It is home to Earth’s third-largest remaining area of tropical rainforest, which covers much of the island of New Guinea.
oceania: The demographic table below shows the subregions and countries of geopolitical Oceania.
oceania: Additionally, it attracts significant attention across New Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
oceania: Puncak Jaya in Indonesia is the highest peak in Oceania at 4,884 m (16,024 ft).
oceania: In the 19th century, many geographers divided Oceania into mostly racially based subdivisions: Australasia, Malesia (encompassing the Malay Archipelago), Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: One surviving ship led by Juan Sebastián Elcano returned west across the Indian Ocean, and the other went north in the hope of finding the westerlies and reaching Mexico.
oceania: The flora of Fiji, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, and New Caledonia is tropical dry forest, with tropical vegetation that includes palm trees, Premna protrusa, Psydrax odorata, Gyrocarpus americanus, and Derris trifoliata.
oceania: Hawaii's musical contributions to the music of the United States are out of proportion to the state's small size.
oceania: However, Brown did not explicitly associate Japan or Taiwan with the term Oceania.
oceania: Some artists release Māori language songs and the Māori tradition-based art of kapa haka (song and dance) has made a resurgence.
oceania: November is the only month in which all the tropical cyclone basins are active.
oceania: Approximately 3.5 thousand years ago, a second expansion of Austronesian speakers arrived in Near Oceania, and the descendants of these people spread to the far corners of the Pacific, colonising Remote Oceania.
oceania: The northern parts of the country have a tropical climate.
oceania: They further include in this region Salas y Gómez, a small uninhabited island to the east of Easter Island.
oceania: Oceanian islands are of four basic types: continental islands, high islands, coral reefs, and uplifted coral platforms.
oceania: Abel Tasman circumnavigated and landed on parts of the Australian continental coast and discovered Van Diemen's Land (now Tasmania), New Zealand in 1642, and Fiji.
oceania: Australia's per-capita GDP is higher than that of the UK, Canada, Germany, and France in terms of purchasing power parity.
oceania: Movie World, Dreamworld and Sea World), Walls of Jerusalem National Park and Mount Field National Park in Tasmania, Royal Exhibition Building in Melbourne, the Great Barrier Reef in Queensland, The Twelve Apostles in Victoria, Uluru (Ayers Rock) and the Australian outback.
oceania: Archaeology, linguistics, and existing genetic studies indicate that Oceania was settled by two major waves of migration.
oceania: The Magellan-Elcano expedition achieved the first circumnavigation of the world and reached the Philippines, the Mariana Islands, and other islands of Oceania.
oceania: The arrival of European settlers in subsequent centuries resulted in a significant alteration in the social and political landscape of Oceania.
oceania: The Tasman Sea, and part of Zealandia, then locked together with Australia to form the Australian Plate (40 Ma), and a new plate boundary was created between the Australian Plate and Pacific Plate.
oceania: Samoa also has a significant Hindu population.
oceania: Native Hawaiians had neither metal nor woven cloth.
oceania: In 1948, American military journal Armed Forces Talk broke the islands of the Pacific up into five major subdivisions: Indonesia, Melanesia, Micronesia, Polynesia, and the non-tropical Islands.
oceania: The 'Asia–Pacific region' would comprise two quasi-continents.
oceania: Oceania's largest export markets include Japan, China, the United States, and South Korea.
oceania: They reached Tasmania c.
oceania: The Pacific theatre saw major action during the First and Second World Wars.
oceania: They are believed to be among the earliest human migrations out of Africa.
oceania: The South Island is dominated by the Southern Alps.
oceania: In the 2016 Census, 52% of the Australian population declared some variety of Christianity and 30% stated "no religion".
oceania: In popular usage, however, the designation has a more restricted application.
oceania: Fiji currently attracts almost half a million tourists each year, more than a quarter of whom come from Australia.
oceania: The New Zealand Parliament holds legislative power and consists of the King and the House of Representatives.
oceania: The most multicultural areas in Oceania, which have a high degree of immigration, are Australia, New Zealand, and Hawaii.
oceania: Australia and New Zealand became dominions in the 20th century, adopting the Statute of Westminster Act in 1942 and 1947, respectively.
oceania: The Pitcairn reed warbler, endemic to Pitcairn Island, was added to the endangered species list in 2008.
oceania: Hong Kong, partly located in another marginal sea of the Pacific (the South China Sea), was also included in his definition.
oceania: Before Europeans arrived in the area, the sea shielded Australia and south central Pacific islands from cultural influences that spread through large continental landmasses and adjacent islands.
oceania: Charles III is the King of New Zealand and the head of state.
oceania: The islands are typically grouped with others in the southeastern Pacific that were never inhabited by Polynesians.
oceania: Charles Marion Tyler's 1885 book The Island World of the Pacific Ocean considered Oceania to ethnographically encompass Australia, New Zealand, the Malay Archipelago, and the islands of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: Another one in Tuvalu belongs to the same sect.
oceania: Text taken from Global Forest Resources Assessment 2025​, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
oceania: Sydney is the most multicultural city in Oceania, having more than 250 different languages spoken, with about 40% of residents speaking a language other than English at home.
oceania: It is estimated that 4% to 6% of the genome in Melanesians (e.g., Papua New Guinean and Bougainville Islander) derives from the Denisova hominin, an ancient human species discovered in 2010, while no Eurasians or Africans displayed contributions of the Denisovan genes.
oceania: The cuisine of Hawaii is a fusion of many foods brought by immigrants to the Hawaiian Islands, including the earliest Polynesians and native Hawaiians, and American, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, Polynesian, and Portuguese origins.
oceania: Establishing a chronological timeframe for these pieces in most cases is difficult, but one has been dated to c.
oceania: The Bonin Islands at that time were a possession of Britain; Macquarie Island, to the south of Tasmania, is a subantarctic island in the Pacific.
oceania: Natural Resources, such as lead, zinc, nickel, and gold, are mined in Australia and Solomon Islands.
oceania: The Māori people constitute one of the major cultures of Polynesia.
oceania: The Refaluwasch or Carolinian people came to the Marianas in the 1800s from the Caroline Islands.
oceania: The overwhelming majority of people living in the Pacific islands work in the service industry, which includes tourism, education, and financial services.
oceania: Native Hawaiian musician and Hawaiian sovereignty activist Israel Kamakawiwoʻole, famous for his medley of "Somewhere Over the Rainbow/What a Wonderful World", was named "The Voice of Hawaii" by NPR in 2010 in its 50 great voices series.
oceania: The 2011 book Maritime Adaptations of the Pacific, by Richard W.
oceania: This is despite the geographical distance separating these areas from Hawaiʻi, which technically lies in the North Pacific.
oceania: New Zealand's landscape ranges from the fjord-like sounds of the southwest to the tropical beaches of the far north.
oceania: It is thought that by roughly 1400 BCE, "Lapita Peoples", so-named after their pottery tradition, appeared in the Bismarck Archipelago of north-west Melanesia.
oceania: She excluded Hawaii from her definition, but not Easter Island.
oceania: Unlike the United Nations, the World Factbook defines the still-uninhabited Clipperton Island as being a discrete political entity, and they categorize it as part of North America, presumably due to its relative proximity (situated 1,200 kilometres off Mexico on the Pacific Plate).
oceania: British linguist Robert Needham Cust argued in 1887 that the Malay Archipelago should be excluded since it had participated in Asian civilization.
oceania: The fa'a Samoa, or traditional Samoan way, remains a strong force in Samoan life and politics.
oceania: Tourists mostly come from Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
oceania: The information shown follows sources in cross-referenced articles; where sources differ, provisos have been clearly indicated.
oceania: New Zealand was originally settled by the Polynesian Māori, and has long maintained a political influence over the subregion.
oceania: New Zealand, as a culture, is a Western culture, which is influenced by the cultural input of the indigenous Māori and the various waves of multi-ethnic migration which followed the British colonisation of New Zealand.
oceania: Australia's Indian Ocean external territories of Christmas Island and Cocos (Keeling) Islands are situated within the bounds of the Australian Plate and have been geographically associated with Southeast Asia, due to their proximity to western Indonesia.
oceania: The ancient Chamorro left several megalithic ruins, including Latte stone.
oceania: Judaism, Sikhism and Jainism are also present.
oceania: Papua New Guinea is geographically the closest country to Australia, and is often geologically associated with Australia as it was once physiologically connected.
oceania: Tourism has been promoted, in part, by Vanuatu being the site of several reality-TV shows.
oceania: Politics of Tonga takes place in a framework of a constitutional monarchy, whereby the King of Tonga is the Head of State.
oceania: Inherent to their remoteness and because of the wide variety of island types, the Pacific Islands have developed unique social, biological, and geological characteristics." Koppers considered Oceania to encompass the entire 25,000 islands of the Pacific Ocean.
oceania: Certain Japanese islands off the main archipelago are not geologically associated with Asia.
oceania: Subsequent immigration has been chiefly from the British Isles, but also from continental Europe, the Pacific, the Americas, and Asia.
oceania: It is the lowest, flattest, and oldest landmass on Earth and it has had a relatively stable geological history.
oceania: Traditional religions are often animist, and prevalent among traditional tribes is the belief in spirits (masalai in Tok Pisin) representing natural forces.
oceania: Australia boasts the largest amount of manufacturing in the region, producing cars, electrical equipment, machinery and clothes.
oceania: Oceania is one of eight terrestrial biogeographic realms, which constitute the major ecological regions of the planet.
oceania: From the late 1970s, there was a significant increase in immigration from Asian and other non-European countries, making Australia a multicultural country.
oceania: The United Nations (UN) has used its own geopolitical definition of Oceania since its foundation in 1947, which utilizes four of the five subregions from the 19th century: Australasia, Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
oceania: As a result, much evidence is based on linguistic analysis.
oceania: Examples include Banaba (formerly Ocean Island) and Makatea in the Tuamotu group of French Polynesia.
oceania: The smallest Pacific nations rely on trade with Australia, New Zealand, and the United States for exporting goods and for accessing other products.
oceania: Unable to find the right winds, it was forced to return to the East Indies.
oceania: The 1985 edition of the South Pacific Handbook also groups the Galápagos Islands as being in Polynesia, while noting that they are not culturally a part of the subregion.
oceania: Tyler additionally profiled the Anson Archipelago, which during the 19th century was a designation for a widely scattered group of purported islands in the Northwestern Pacific Ocean between Japan and Hawaii.
oceania: Some of the more well known and distinctive bird species in New Zealand are the kiwi, kea, takahē, kākāpō, mohua, tūī, and the bellbird.
oceania: The majority of people living in Australia work in health care, retail and education sectors.
oceania: As of 2015, Honolulu was ranked high on world livability rankings, and was also ranked as the 2nd safest city in the U.S.
oceania: The broadest definition encompasses the islands between mainland Asia and the Americas.
oceania: The area of primary forest decreased in Oceania by 17 000 hectares per year in 1990–2000, 25 600 ha per year in 2000–2015 and 20 200 ha per year in 2015–2025.
oceania: The oldest member disappearing by way of the plate tectonics cycle is early-Cretaceous (145 to 137 million years ago).
oceania: Australia and New Zealand's trading arrangements are known as Closer Economic Relations.
oceania: They have hosted two Summer Olympics: Melbourne 1956 and Sydney 2000, and the city of Brisbane is also set to host the 2032 edition.
oceania: The attack led to the United States' entry into World War II.
oceania: The Pacific Plate, which makes up most of Oceania, is an oceanic tectonic plate that lies beneath the Pacific Ocean.
oceania: The history of Hawaii's economy can be traced through a succession of dominant industries; sandalwood, whaling, sugarcane, pineapple, the military, tourism, and education.
oceania: Disagreements between the US, the UK, and Germany over Samoa led to the Tripartite Convention of 1899.
oceania: From the early 20th century to 2007, the island was administratively part of French Polynesia, which itself was known as French Oceania up until 1957.
oceania: Chinese workers on Western trading ships settled in Hawaii starting in 1789.
oceania: 8,000 years ago to the edges of western Micronesia and on into Melanesia.
oceania: The Hawaiian Islands receive most of their precipitation during the winter months (October to April).
oceania: International and domestic tourism contribute, in total, NZ$24 billion to New Zealand's economy every year.
oceania: Some were used in magic, others to increase animal populations for hunting, while some were simply for amusement.
oceania: Fiji's Head of State is the President.
oceania: Some also theorize that Indigenous Australians are related to the Ainu people, who are the original inhabitants of Japan's Hokkaido, the Kuril Islands and the southern part of Sakhalin.
oceania: These rock paintings served several functions.
oceania: There are also Creoles formed from the interaction of Malay or the colonial languages with indigenous languages, such as Tok Pisin, Bislama, Chavacano, various Malay trade and creole languages, Hawaiian Pidgin, Norfuk, and Pitkern.
oceania: Some experts insist that Oceania encompasses even the cold Aleutian Islands and the islands of Japan.
oceania: New Zealand is a constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary democracy, although its constitution is not codified.
oceania: The sasa is also a traditional dance where rows of dancers perform rapid synchronised movements in time to the rhythm of wooden drums (pate) or rolled mats.
oceania: ISBN 978-0-86840-589-6.
oceania: Melbourne also ranked highly in the world's most liveable city list, and is a leading financial centre in the Asia–Pacific region.
oceania: Japan's Bonin and Ryukyu Islands are also considered to be subtropical islands, with the main Japanese archipelago being non-tropical.
oceania: Britain also established colonies in Australia in 1788, New Zealand in 1840, and Fiji in 1872, with much of Oceania becoming part of the British Empire.
oceania: Tourism in Australia is an important component of the Australian economy.
oceania: The Australian Museum in Sydney and the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne are the oldest and largest museums in Oceania.
oceania: They were named by Krusenstern, after English explorer John Marshall, who visited them together with Thomas Gilbert in 1788, en route from Botany Bay to Canton (two ships of the First Fleet).
oceania: The Polynesian people are considered to be, by linguistic, archaeological, and human genetic ancestry, a subset of the sea-migrating Austronesian people and tracing Polynesian languages places their prehistoric origins in the Malay Archipelago, and ultimately, in Taiwan.
oceania: Australia and New Zealand, along with other countries, are members of Asia–Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the East Asia Summit (EAS), which may become trade blocs in the future, particularly EAS.
oceania: Fogg defined Polynesia as covering the combined islands of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia, as well as the Ryukyu Islands.
oceania: Micronesia began to be settled several millennia ago, although there are competing theories about the origin and arrival of the first settlers.
oceania: It is used in statistical reports, by the International Olympic Committee, and by many atlases.
oceania: However, Prichard argued that these islands were generally not considered part of Oceania because their inhabitants were not connected to the indigenous peoples of the more remote Pacific islands.
oceania: Definitions of Oceania vary.
oceania: These territories and regions are subject to various additional categorisations, depending on the source and purpose of each description.
oceania: The artistic creations of native Oceanians vary greatly throughout the cultures and regions.
oceania: The King is represented by the Governor-General, whom he appoints on the advice of the Prime Minister.
oceania: The islands of the North Pacific, such as the Aleutians and the Kuriles, are usually excluded.
oceania: The coastal uplands and a belt of Brigalow grasslands lie between the coast and the mountains, while inland of the dividing range are large areas of grassland.
oceania: The Oxford Companion to Australian History.
oceania: The Story of the Kelly Gang (1906), the world's first feature length film, spurred a boom in Australian cinema during the silent film era.
oceania: Sir Isaac Isaacs was the first Australian-born Governor General of Australia and was the first Jewish vice-regal representative in the British Empire.
oceania: Melbourne: Oxford University Press.
oceania: Government Publishing Office's Area Handbook for Oceania from 1971 states that Australia and New Zealand are the principal large sovereignties of the area.
oceania: All summits over 2,900 m are within the Southern Alps, a chain that forms the backbone of the South Island; the highest peak of which is Aoraki / Mount Cook, at 3,754 metres (12,316 ft).
oceania: The campaign to take Samoa ended without bloodshed after over 1,000 New Zealanders landed on the German colony.
oceania: Chile's government have occasionally considered them to be within Oceania along with Easter Island.
oceania: Kennedy wrote:
oceania: The highest level of the sport is the Australian Football League (AFL), which was the fourth-best attended sporting league in the world during the 2010s.
oceania: Agriculture accounts for 18% of gross domestic product, although it employed some 70% of the workforce as of 2001.
oceania: The Indonesian subdivision consisted of the islands of the Malay Archipelago, while the non-tropical islands were categorized as being North Pacific islands, such as Alaska's Kodiak archipelago, the Aleutian Islands, Japan, the Kuril Islands, and Sakhalin.
oceania: When compared against other continental land areas, Oceania is the smallest and the second-least populated after Antarctica.
oceania: The linked map below shows the exclusive economic zones (EEZs) of the islands of Oceania and neighbouring areas, as a guide to the following table (few land boundaries can be drawn on a map of the Pacific at this scale).
oceania: Other religions in the region include Islam and Buddhism, which are prominent minority religions in Australia and New Zealand.
oceania: The islands of the Malay Archipelago, north of Australia, mainly lie on the continental shelf of Asia, and their inhabitants had more exposure to mainland Asian culture as a result of this closer proximity.
oceania: Prominent features of the Australian flora are adaptations to aridity and fire, which include scleromorphy and serotiny.
oceania: A few islands in the northwest, such as Guam, are susceptible to typhoons in the wet season.
oceania: Fiji's sevens team is one of the most successful in the world, as is New Zealand's.
oceania: Teo, Hsu-Ming; White, Richard (2003).
oceania: The Japanese were turned back at the Battle of the Coral Sea and the Kokoda Track campaign before they were finally defeated in 1945.
oceania: They are designed to dispel the outdated categories of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia; many scholars now replace those categories with Green's terms since the early 1990s, but the old categories are still used in science, popular culture and general usage.
oceania: Coconuts, ginger, and copra are also significant.
oceania: Hawaii, although being in the tropics, experiences many different climates, depending on latitude and its geography.
oceania: By 75 Ma, Zealandia was essentially separate from Australia and Antarctica, although only shallow seas might have separated Zealandia and Australia in the north.
oceania: Two years later, Australia's Celebrity Survivor was filmed at the same location used by the U.S.
oceania: The tuatara is a notable reptile endemic to New Zealand.
oceania: Hainan, which neighbours Taiwan, also has Austronesian ethnolinguistic origins, although it was not included in the book.
