oligopoly: There are legal restrictions on cartels in most countries, with regulations and enforcement against cartels having been enacted since the late 1990s.
oligopoly: The Cournot–Nash model is the simplest oligopoly model.
oligopoly: Oligopolistic firms must take into consideration the possible reactions of all competing firms and the firms' countermoves.
oligopoly: In this situation, if a firm raises prices, it will lose all its customers.
oligopoly: The higher the four-firm concentration ratio is, the less competitive the market is.
oligopoly: Along non-price dimensions, collusion is harder to sustain.
oligopoly: In most countries, the telecommunications sector is characterized by an oligopolistic market structure.
oligopoly: This model predicts that more firms will enter the industry in the long run, since market price for oligopolists is more stable.
oligopoly: R
          
            M
          
        
        =
        
          C
          
            M
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle R_{M}=C_{M}}
oligopoly: In particular, the level of dead weight loss is hard to measure.
oligopoly: The Bertrand model is more applicable for industries with low capacity constraints, such as banking and insurance.
oligopoly: This model allows the market to be split into two groups of firms.
oligopoly: Because of this jump discontinuity in the marginal revenue curve, marginal cost could change without necessarily changing the price or quantity.
oligopoly: If a firm lowers prices below the existing price, their competitors will follow to retain their market share and the firm's output will increase only marginally.
oligopoly: However, there are a series of simplified models that attempt to describe market behavior under certain circumstances.
oligopoly: However, the stability and effectiveness of a cartel are limited, and members tend to break from the alliance in order to gain short-term benefits.
oligopoly: M
        −
        
          Q
          
            2
          
        
        −
        2
        
          Q
          
            1
          
        
        =
        
          C
          
            M
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle M-Q_{2}-2Q_{1}=C_{M}}
oligopoly: Bertrand's oligopoly.
oligopoly: After competing in prices for a while, firms would eventually reach an equilibrium where prices would be the same as marginal costs of production.
oligopoly: Each firm produces where 
  
    
      
        P
        =
        
          MC
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle P={\text{MC}}}
  
, resulting in zero profits.
oligopoly: In this situation, each company in the oligopoly has a large share in the industry and plays a pivotal, unique role.
oligopoly: One major difference between varying industries is capacity constraints.
oligopoly: In this model, the Nash equilibrium can be found by determining how each firm reacts to a change in the output of the other firm, and repeating this analysis until a point is reached where neither firm desires to act any differently, given their predictions of the other firm's responsive behaviour.
oligopoly: The firm's marginal revenue curve is discontinuous and not differentiable, having a gap at the kink.
oligopoly: Other industries identified as oligopolistic include banks, telecommunications, and airlines.
oligopoly: The curve is, therefore, more price-elastic for price increases and less so for price decreases.
oligopoly: Ivaldi, M., Jullien, B., Rey, P., Seabright, P., & Tirole, J.
oligopoly: The first group's aim is to optimally adjust their output to maximise profits, while the second group's aim is to optimally adjust their prices.
oligopoly: One form of collusive oligopoly is a cartel, a monopolistic organisation and relationship formed by manufacturers who produce or sell a certain kind of goods in order to monopolise the market and obtain high profits by reaching an agreement on commodity price, output and market share allocation.
oligopoly: "Kinked" demand curves appear similar to traditional demand curves but are distinguished by a hypothesised convex bend with a discontinuity at the bend–"kink".
oligopoly: An example of the Cournot-Bertrand model in real life can be seen in the market of alcoholic beverages.
oligopoly: This is a situation similar to perfect competition, where oligopolists have their own market structure.
oligopoly: If firms in an oligopoly collude, information between firms then may become perfect.
oligopoly: According to game theory, the decisions of one firm influence, and are influenced by, the decisions of other firms.
oligopoly: For example in Armenia, where business elites enjoy oligopoly, 19% of the whole economy is monopolized, making it the most monopolized country in the region.
oligopoly: Interdependence in oligopolies is reduced when firms collude, because there is a lessened need for firms to anticipate the actions of other firms in relation to prices.
oligopoly: The FOC can be calculated by setting the first derivative of the objective function to zero.
oligopoly: The leniency program and screening are currently two popular mechanisms.
oligopoly: Tacit collusion is becoming a more popular topic in the development of anti-trust law in most countries.
oligopoly: This measure expresses, as a percentage, the market share of the four largest firms in any particular industry.
oligopoly: Few firms in the market: When there are few firms in the market, the actions of one firm can influence the actions of the others.
oligopoly: Behavioural screening is typically implemented when a cartel formation or agreement has already been reached, with authorities subsequently looking into firms' data to determine if price variance is low or experiences significant price changes.
oligopoly: Interdependence: A distinctive feature of oligopolies is interdependence.
oligopoly: As different industries have different characteristics, oligopoly models differ in their applicability within each industry.
oligopoly: Profit maximisation
Price setting: Firms in an oligopoly market structure tend to set prices rather than adopt them.
oligopoly: In a perfectly competitive market, there is zero interdependence because no firm is large enough to affect market prices.
oligopoly: The variety and complexity of the models exist because numerous firms can compete on the basis of price, quantity, technological innovations, marketing, and reputation.
oligopoly: The Bertrand equilibrium is the same as the competitive result.
oligopoly: In this model, the firms simultaneously choose prices (see Bertrand competition).
oligopoly: Screening
There are two screening methods that are currently available for competition authorities: structural screening and behavioural screening.
oligopoly: Although aggressive, these laws typically only apply when firms engage in formal collusion, such as cartels.
oligopoly: In Canada, supermarkets have been identified as oligopolistic, largely falling under only three chains.
oligopoly: Equation 1.2 is the reaction function for firm 
  
    
      
        2
      
    
    {\displaystyle 2}
  
.
oligopoly: Whenever there is a formal agreement for such collusion between companies that usually compete with one another, the practice is known as a cartel.
oligopoly: Corporations may often thus evade legal consequences through tacit collusion, as collusion can only be proven through direct communication between companies.
oligopoly: Assume that marginal cost is 
  
    
      
        
          C
          
            M
          
        
        =
        12
      
    
    {\displaystyle C_{M}=12}
  
.
oligopoly: The reaction function can be derived by calculating the first-order condition (FOC) of the firms' optimal profits.
oligopoly: In Australia, the Federal Competition and Consumer Act 2010 details the prohibition and regulation of anti-competitive agreements and practices.
oligopoly: Firms may face differing cost functions, in which case the reaction functions and equilibrium quantities would not be identical.
oligopoly: Harrington, J.
oligopoly: Partial oligopolies are able to price-make rather than price-take.
oligopoly: The economics of tacit collusion.
oligopoly: If a firm raises its price above the current existing price, competitors will not follow and the acting firm will lose market share.
oligopoly: Stackelberg's duopoly.
oligopoly: Generally, where there are two homogenous products, a rational consumer's preference between the products will be indifferent, assuming the products share common prices.
oligopoly: Hypothetically, this could lead to an efficient outcome approaching perfect competition.
oligopoly: In this model, the firms simultaneously choose quantities (see Cournot competition).
oligopoly: A loose oligopoly occurs when the four-firm concentration is in the range of 40-60.
oligopoly: If a firm lowers price, 
  
    
      
        P
        <
        
          MC
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle P<{\text{MC}}}
  
, then it will lose money on every unit sold.
oligopoly: The market demand curve is assumed to be linear, and marginal costs constant.
oligopoly: Journal of economic behavior & organization, 73(2), 273–293.
oligopoly: Consequently, existing firms may have more incentive to deviate.
oligopoly: Within post-socialist economies, oligopolies may be particularly pronounced.
oligopoly: In other words, firms will lose less for deviation and thus have more incentive to undercut collusion prices when more join the market.
oligopoly: If the assumptions hold, then:
oligopoly: The development of this oligopoly is believed to have resulted in a reduction of competition in the retail sector, coincides with the decline of independent high street retailers, and may also be affecting suppliers and farmers through monopsony.
oligopoly: Thus, the first derivative at that point is undefined and leads to a jump discontinuity in the marginal revenue curve.
oligopoly: For prices above the prevailing price, the curve is relatively elastic.
oligopoly: The model assumptions are:
oligopoly: The kinked demand curve for a joint profit-maximizing oligopoly industry can model the behaviors of oligopolists' pricing decisions other than that of the price leader.
oligopoly: The gap in the marginal revenue curve means that marginal costs can fluctuate without changing equilibrium price and quantity Thus, prices tend to be rigid.
oligopoly: Schendel and Balestra contend that at least some players in a price war can profit from participation.
oligopoly: Recognising this vulnerability, established sellers will reach a tacit understanding to raise entry barriers to prevent new companies from entering the market.
oligopoly: The model assumes that there are two equally positioned firms; the firms compete on the basis of quantity rather than price, and each firm makes decisions on the assumption that the other firm's behaviour is unchanging.
oligopoly: Economies of scale are seen prevalently when two firms in oligopolistic market agree to a merger, as it allows the firm to not only diversify their market but also increase in size and output production, with negligible relative increases in output costs.
oligopoly: The motivation behind the kink is that in an oligopolistic or monopolistic competitive market, firms will not raise their prices because even a small price increase will lose many customers.
oligopoly: Nonetheless, in the presence of fierce competition among market participants, oligopolies may develop without collusion.
oligopoly: Both Cournot model and Bertrand model consist of the two-stage game; the Cournot model is more suitable for firms in industries that face capacity constraints, where firms set their quantity of production first, then set their prices.
oligopoly: Firms in an oligopoly who benefit from economies of scale have a distinct advantage over firms who do not.
oligopoly: A common aspect of oligopolies is the ability to engage in price competition selectively.
oligopoly: The production times of alcoholic beverages differ greatly creating different economic environments within the market.
oligopoly: Colluding firms are able to maximise profits at a level above the normal market equilibrium.
oligopoly: When the four-firm concentration ration is higher than 60, the market can be classified as a tight oligopoly.
oligopoly: Where companies in an industry need to offer a diverse range of products and services, such as in the manufacturing and service industries, such industries are subject to imperfect oligopoly.
oligopoly: Many industries have been cited as oligopolistic, including civil aviation, electricity providers, the telecommunications sector, rail freight markets, food processing, funeral services, sugar refining, beer making, pulp and paper making, and automobile manufacturing.
oligopoly: Cournot's duopoly.
oligopoly: Additional sources of barriers to entry often result from government regulation favouring existing firms.
oligopoly: Collusion closes the gap in the asymmetry of information typically present in a market of competing firms.
oligopoly: Many jurisdictions deem collusion to be illegal as it violates competition laws and is regarded as anti-competition behaviour.
oligopoly: Buyers, however, only have imperfect knowledge as to price, cost, and product quality.
oligopoly: The only Nash equilibrium is 
  
    
      
        
          P
          
            A
          
        
        =
        
          P
          
            B
          
        
        =
        
          MC
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle P_{A}=P_{B}={\text{MC}}}
  
.
oligopoly: However, some economists have argued that this does not always apply in real world contexts.
oligopoly: Whereas, the production of brandy requires minimal time to age, thus the price is set by the producers and the supply is determined by the quantity demanded at that price.
oligopoly: As competition in an oligopoly can be greater when there are more competitors in an industry, it is theoretically harder to sustain cartels in an industry with a larger number of firms, as there will be less collusive profit for each firm.
oligopoly: If the firms are colluding in the oligopoly, they can set the price at a high profit-maximising level.
oligopoly: Even though empirical studies suggest that firms can easily make much higher profits by agreeing on charging a price higher than marginal costs, highly rational firms would still not be able to stay at a price higher than marginal cost.
oligopoly: This model is not accepted by some economists who believe that firms in the same industry cannot compete with different strategic variables.
oligopoly: Economists Kreps and Scheinkman's research demonstrates that varying economic environments are required in order for firms to compete in the same industry while using different strategic variables.
oligopoly: The EU competition law in Europe prohibits anti-competitive practices such as price-fixing and competitors manipulating market supply and trade.
oligopoly: Nonetheless, this model has been applied and observed in both real-world examples and theoretical contexts.
oligopoly: Non-price competition: Generally, the oligopolistic enterprise with the largest scale and lowest cost will become the price setter in this market.
oligopoly: Anticipation among firms about potential counteractions leads to price rigidity, with firms usually only willing to adjust prices and quantities of output in accordance with a price leader.
oligopoly: The Nash equilibrium can thus be obtained by solving the equations simultaneously or graphically.
oligopoly: For prices below the point, the curve is relatively inelastic.
oligopoly: A generalization of the Bertrand model is the Bertrand–Edgeworth model, which allows for capacity constraints and a more general cost function.
oligopoly: In the US, the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission was created to fight collusion among cartels.
oligopoly: Reaction functions are not necessarily symmetric.
oligopoly: In contrast, a closed oligopoly is where there are prominent barriers to market entry which preclude other firms from easily entering the market.
oligopoly: Perfect and imperfect knowledge: Oligopolies have perfect knowledge of their own cost and demand functions, but their inter-firm information may be incomplete.
oligopoly: Strategic planning by oligopolists needs to take into account the likely responses of the other market participants.
oligopoly: The assumptions of the model are:
oligopoly: These sorts of mergers are typically seen when companies expand into large business groups by appreciating and increasing capital to buy smaller companies in the same markets, which consequently increases the profit margins of the business.
oligopoly: Competition Policy Research Center Discussion Paper, CPDP-18-E.
oligopoly: Some of the better-known models are the dominant firm model, the Cournot–Nash model, the Bertrand model and the kinked demand model.
oligopoly: In the Cournot model and Bertrand model, it is assumed that all the firms are competing with the same choice variable, either output or price.
oligopoly: In a monopolistically-competitive market, each firm's effects on market conditions are so negligible that they can be safely ignored by competitors.
oligopoly: A loose oligopoly, on the other hand, has many interdependent firms which often collude to maximise profits.
oligopoly: The equilibrium is the intersection of the two firm's reaction functions, which show how one firm reacts to the quantity choice of the other firm.
oligopoly: A partial oligopoly is one where a single firm dominates an industry through saturation of the market, producing a high percentage of total output and having large influence over market conditions.
oligopoly: Bertrand's model assumes that firms are selling homogeneous products and therefore have the same marginal production costs, and firms will focus on competing in prices simultaneously.
oligopoly: Imperfect (or 'differentiated') oligopolies, on the other hand, involve firms producing commodities which are heterogenous.
oligopoly: The price set by it will maximise its own interests, such that other small-scale enterprises may also benefit.
oligopoly: Oligopolies tend to compete on terms other than price, as non-price competition, such as promotional efforts, is less risky.
oligopoly: The mechanism behind this model is that even by undercutting just a small increment of its price, a firm would be able to capture the entire market share.
oligopoly: In a monopoly, there are no competitors to be concerned about.
oligopoly: cellular telephone market.
oligopoly: An example of an economic cartel is OPEC, where oligopolistic countries control the worldwide oil supply, leaving a profound influence on the international price of oil.
oligopoly: Markets can be classified into tight and loose oligopolies using the four-firm concentration ratio, which measures the percentage market share of the top four firms in the industry.
oligopoly: Whilst Bertrand price competition is a useful abstraction of markets in many settings, due to its lack of ability to capture human behavioural patterns, the approach has been criticised for being inaccurate in predicting prices.
oligopoly: As a result, firms in oligopolistic markets often resort to collusion as means of maximising profits.
oligopoly: Entry barriers include high investment requirements, strong consumer loyalty for existing brands, regulatory hurdles and economies of scale.
oligopoly: The Cournot-Bertrand model is a hybrid of these two models and was first developed by Bylka and Komar in 1976.
oligopoly: A perfect (sometimes called a 'pure') oligopoly is where the commodities produced by the firms are homogenous (i.e., identical or materially the same in nature) and the elasticity of substitute commodities is near infinite.
oligopoly: The following game-theoretical oligopoly models attempt to describe and predict the behaviour of oligopolies:
oligopoly: In this model, the firms move sequentially to determine their quantities (see Stackelberg competition).
oligopoly: However, empirical evidence has shown this conclusion to be ambiguous.
oligopoly: The study of product differentiation indicates that oligopolies might also create excessive levels of differentiation in order to stifle competition, as they could gain certain marker power by offering somewhat differentiated products.
oligopoly: Similarly, sellers will be relatively indifferent between purchase commitments in relation to homogenous products.
oligopoly: This high degree of interdependence stands in contrast with the lack of interdependence in other market structures.
oligopoly: Firms in an oligopoly are mutually interdependent, as any action by one firm is expected to affect other firms in the market and evoke a reaction or consequential action.
oligopoly: The fermentation of distilled spirits takes a significant amount of time; therefore, output is set by producers, leaving the market conditions to determine price.
oligopoly: In an oligopoly, firms operate under imperfect competition.
oligopoly: Abnormal long-run profits: High barriers of entry prevent sideline firms from entering the market to capture excess profits.
oligopoly: It is currently unknown what the overall effect of leniency programs is.
oligopoly: In an oligopolistic market of a primary industry, such as agriculture or mining, commodities produced by oligopolistic enterprises will have strong homogeneity; as such, such markets are described as perfect oligopolies.
oligopoly: Leniency programs have been implemented by countries including the US, Japan and Canada.
oligopoly: As a quantitative description of oligopoly, the four-firm concentration ratio is often utilised and is the most preferable ratio for analyzing market concentration.
oligopoly: For example, EU competition law has prohibited some unreasonable anti-competitive practices, such as directly or indirectly fixing selling prices, manipulating market supplies and controlling trade among competitors.
oligopoly: Thus, the welfare analysis of oligopolies is sensitive to the parameter values used to define the market's structure.
oligopoly: Intertemporal price discrimination and competition.
oligopoly: Greater market transparency, for instance, would decrease collusion, as oligopolistic companies expect retaliation sooner where changes in their prices and quantity of sales are clear to their rivals.
oligopoly: An oligopoly (from Ancient Greek  ὀλίγος (olígos) 'few' and  πωλέω (pōléō) 'to sell') is a market in which pricing control lies in the hands of a few sellers.
oligopoly: High barriers to entry and exit: Important barriers include government licenses, economies of scale, patents, access to expensive and complex technology, and strategic actions by incumbent firms designed to discourage or destroy nascent firms.
oligopoly: For example, as of fourth quarter 2008, the combined total market share of Verizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint, and T-Mobile comprises 97% of the U.S.
oligopoly: The fierce price competitiveness, created by a sticky-upward demand curve, causes firms to use non-price competition in order to accrue greater revenue and market share.
oligopoly: Every oligopolistic company with strong commodity homogeneity in its industry is reluctant to raise or lower prices, as competing firms will be aware of a firm's market actions and will respond appropriately.
oligopoly: These barriers allow existing firms in the oligopoly market to maintain a certain price on commodities and services in order to maximise profits.
oligopoly: Structural screening refers to the identification of industry traits or characteristics, such as homogeneous goods, stable demand, less existing participants, which are prone to cartel formation.
oligopoly: In the US, the United States Department of Justice Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission are tasked with stopping collusion.
oligopoly: Their marginal costs are lower, such that the firm's equilibrium at 
  
    
      
        M
        R
        =
        M
        C
      
    
    {\displaystyle MR=MC}
  
 would be higher.
oligopoly: Corporate leniency programs and the role of the antitrust authority in detecting collusion.
oligopoly: As a result of their significant market power, firms in oligopolistic markets can influence prices through manipulating the supply function.
oligopoly: Even if this requires cutting prices, all companies benefit because they reduce the risk of loss created by new competition.
oligopoly: Nonetheless, leniency programs may be abused, their efficacy has been questioned, and they ultimately allow some colluding firms to experience less harsh penalties.
oligopoly: However, even a large price decrease will gain only a few customers because such an action will begin a price war with other firms.
