opera: The first known opera from Turkey (the Ottoman Empire) was Arshak II, which was an Armenian opera composed by an ethnic Armenian composer Tigran Chukhajian in 1868 and partially performed in 1873.
opera: The most famous modern Hungarian opera is Béla Bartók's Duke Bluebeard's Castle.
opera: Other important composers from Argentina include Felipe Boero and Alberto Ginastera.
opera: Francis Poulenc is one of the very few post-war composers of any nationality whose operas (which include Dialogues des Carmélites) have gained a foothold in the international repertory.
opera: Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan, all of which types of musical entertainments frequently spoofed operatic conventions; these genres contributed significantly to the emergence of the separate but closely related art of musical theatre in the late 19th century.
opera: The first Kyrgyz opera, Ai-Churek, premiered in Moscow at the Bolshoi Theatre on 26 May 1939, during Kyrgyz Art Decade.
opera: Nevertheless, native forms would develop in spite of this influence.
opera: Opera solos during this period were accompanied by the basso continuo group, which consisted of the harpsichord, "plucked instruments" such as lute and a bass instrument.
opera: During the 19th century, parallel operatic traditions emerged in central and eastern Europe, particularly in Russia and Bohemia.
opera: Many contemporary 21st century opera composers have emerged such as Missy Mazzoli, Kevin Puts, Tom Cipullo, Huang Ruo, David T.
opera: These masques contained songs and dances.
opera: On the other hand, Richard Strauss accepted Wagnerian ideas but took them in wholly new directions, along with incorporating the new form introduced by Verdi.
opera: Besides Arne, the other dominating force in English opera at this time was George Frideric Handel, whose opera serias filled the London operatic stages for decades and influenced most home-grown composers, like John Frederick Lampe, who wrote using Italian models.
opera: His resistance to serialism (an attitude he reversed following Schoenberg's death) proved to be an inspiration for many other composers.
opera: Another role for the orchestra during this period was playing an orchestral ritornello to mark the end of a singer's solo.
opera: Despite these hindrances, his aim (and that of his collaborator John Dryden) was to establish serious opera in England, but these hopes ended with Purcell's early death at the age of 36.
opera: Allen at Project Gutenberg.
opera: A particular singer's voice may change drastically over his or her lifetime, rarely reaching vocal maturity until the third decade, and sometimes not until middle age.
opera: Despite his foreign birthplace, Lully established an Academy of Music and monopolised French opera from 1672.
opera: Gossec's Le triomphe de la République (1793).
opera: They include operas such as Káťa Kabanová and The Cunning Little Vixen, the Sinfonietta and the Glagolitic Mass.
opera: Earlier, it was common for that part to be sung by any female voice, or even a castrato.
opera: After these, he continued to develop his style, composing perhaps the greatest French grand opera, Don Carlos, and ending his career with two Shakespeare-inspired works, Otello and Falstaff, which reveal how far Italian opera had grown in sophistication since the early 19th century.
opera: Other composers who made individual contributions to German opera in the early 20th century include Alexander von Zemlinsky, Erich Korngold, Franz Schreker, Paul Hindemith, Kurt Weill and the Italian-born Ferruccio Busoni.
opera: The first years of the Soviet Union saw the emergence of new national operas, such as the Koroğlu (1937) by the Azerbaijani composer Uzeyir Hajibeyov.
opera: Another feature of late 20th-century opera is the emergence of contemporary historical operas, in contrast to the tradition of basing operas on more distant history, the re-telling of contemporary fictional stories or plays, or on myth or legend.
opera: Gluck's reforms have had resonance throughout operatic history.
opera: Brown, Howard Mayer, "Opera", The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians.
opera: Blow's immediate successor was the better known Henry Purcell.
opera: Castrati such as Farinelli and Senesino, as well as female sopranos such as Faustina Bordoni, became in great demand throughout Europe as opera seria ruled the stage in every country except France.
opera: 1800", United and Diversity in European Culture c.
opera: Retrieved 15 February 2011.
opera: In 1637, the idea of a "season" (often during the carnival) of publicly attended operas supported by ticket sales emerged in Venice.
opera: Nevertheless, rather than copying the style of Offenbach, the operettas of Strauss II had distinctly Viennese flavour to them.
opera: They became so popular, however, that they were soon being offered as separate productions.
opera: The taste for embellishment on behalf of the superbly trained singers, and the use of spectacle as a replacement for dramatic purity and unity drew attacks.
opera: In his mature music dramas, Tristan und Isolde, Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg, Der Ring des Nibelungen and Parsifal, he abolished the distinction between aria and recitative in favour of a seamless flow of "endless melody".
opera: After composing music for the Diaghilev-produced ballets Petrushka (1911) and The Rite of Spring (1913), Stravinsky turned to neoclassicism, a development culminating in his opera-oratorio Oedipus rex (1927).
opera: As the form evolved, the first movement may incorporate fanfare-like elements and took on the pattern of so-called "sonatina form" (sonata form without a development section), and the slow section became more extended and lyrical.
opera: In July 2012, the first online community opera was premiered at the Savonlinna Opera Festival.
opera: Peri's Euridice opens with a brief instrumental ritornello, and Monteverdi's L'Orfeo (1607) opens with a toccata, in this case a fanfare for muted trumpets.
opera: Wagner also brought a new philosophical dimension to opera in his works, which were usually based on stories from Germanic or Arthurian legend.
opera: Although musical theatre is closely related to opera, the two are considered to be distinct from one another.
opera: In 19th-century opera, in some operas, the overture, Vorspiel, Einleitung, Introduction, or whatever else it may be called, was the portion of the music which takes place before the curtain rises; a specific, rigid form was no longer required for the overture.
opera: Edwards, Henry Sutherland (1862).
opera: Carl Maria von Weber established German Romantic opera in opposition to the dominance of Italian bel canto.
opera: His opera Artaxerxes (1762) was the first attempt to set a full-blown opera seria in English and was a huge success, holding the stage until the 1830s.
opera: He advocated that opera seria had to return to basics and that all the various elements—music (both instrumental and vocal), ballet, and staging—must be subservient to the overriding drama.
opera: Today, operas are only rarely performed in translation.
opera: Titled Free Will, it was created by members of the Internet group Opera By You.
opera: In 2009 the British Glyndebourne Festival Opera offered for the first time an online digital video download of its complete 2007 production of Tristan und Isolde.
opera: was achieved on 24 December 1951, with the live broadcast of Amahl and the Night Visitors, an opera in one act by Gian Carlo Menotti.
opera: At the same time, the French masque was gaining a firm hold at the English Court, with even more lavish splendour and highly realistic scenery than had been seen before.
opera: Lully's operas also show a concern for expressive recitative which matched the contours of the French language.
opera: Leoš Janáček gained international recognition in the 20th century for his innovative works.
opera: These developments mirrored the growth of Russian nationalism across the artistic spectrum, as part of the more general Slavophilism movement.
opera: The HD video opera transmissions are presented via the same HD digital cinema projectors used for major Hollywood films.
opera: Bel canto lines are typically florid and intricate, requiring supreme agility and pitch control.
opera: Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
opera: In this respect, jigs anticipate the ballad operas of the 18th century.
opera: Over time, some directors began to stand up and use hand and arm gestures to lead the performers.
opera: The Most Happy Fella (1952) is quasi-operatic and has been revived by the New York City Opera.
opera: Exceptions include the English National Opera, the Opera Theatre of Saint Louis, Opera Theater of Pittsburgh, and Opera South East, which favour English translations.
opera: The words of an opera are known as the libretto (meaning "small book").
opera: The main characters of the play tend not to be involved in the musical scenes, which means that Purcell was rarely able to develop his characters through song.
opera: Simon, Henry W.: A Treasury of Grand Opera, Simon and Schuster, New York, 1946.
opera: Once the Metastasian ideal had been firmly established, comedy in Baroque-era opera was reserved for what came to be called opera buffa.
opera: Such a "work" (the literal translation of the Italian word "opera") is typically a collaboration between a composer and a librettist and incorporates a number of the performing arts, such as acting, scenery, costume, and sometimes dance or ballet.
opera: It also saw the advent of grand opera typified by the works of Daniel Auber and Giacomo Meyerbeer as well as Carl Maria von Weber's introduction of German Romantische Oper (Romantic Opera).
opera: In the 18th century, Lully's most important successor was Jean-Philippe Rameau, who composed five tragédies en musique as well as numerous works in other genres such as opéra-ballet, all notable for their rich orchestration and harmonic daring.
opera: This opera, and the ones that would follow in Verdi's career, revolutionised Italian opera, changing it from merely a display of vocal fireworks, with Rossini's and Donizetti's works, to dramatic story-telling.
opera: Even the Met only has a seven-month season."
opera: San Francisco Opera began prerecorded video transmissions in March 2008.
opera: Following the bel canto era, a more direct, forceful style was rapidly popularised by Giuseppe Verdi, beginning with his biblical opera Nabucco.
opera: During the early 1700s, some composers began to use the string orchestra to mark certain aria or recitatives "...as special"; by 1720, most arias were accompanied by an orchestra.
opera: About 1683, John Blow composed Venus and Adonis, often thought of as the first true English-language opera.
opera: New York: W.
opera: The opera is based on the Kyrgyz heroic epic Manas.
opera: Another phenomenon of this period was the 'propaganda opera' celebrating revolutionary successes, e.g.
opera: Opera seria had its weaknesses and critics.
opera: In the 1800s, during the Classical period, the principal first violinist, also known as the concertmaster, would lead the orchestra while sitting.
opera: An early leader of this movement was Ferruccio Busoni, who in 1913 wrote the libretto for his neoclassical number opera Arlecchino (first performed in 1917).
opera: The popularity of opera continued through the verismo era in Italy and contemporary French opera through to Giacomo Puccini and Richard Strauss in the early 20th century.
opera: The Italian word derives from the Latin word opera, a singular noun meaning "work" and also the plural of the noun opus.
opera: This situation continued throughout the 18th and 19th centuries, including in the work of Michael William Balfe, and the operas of the great Italian composers, as well as those of Mozart, Beethoven, and Meyerbeer, continued to dominate the musical stage in England.
opera: The development of Russian-language opera was supported by the Russian composers Vasily Pashkevich, Yevstigney Fomin and Alexey Verstovsky.
opera: The move away from traditional tonality in opera had begun with Richard Wagner, and in particular the Tristan chord.
opera: A History of Opera.
opera: After World War II, opera scholarship improved, artists refocused on the original versions, and translations fell out of favour.
opera: Perhaps the most interesting response came from Claude Debussy.
opera: Major opera companies have begun presenting their performances in local cinemas throughout the United States and many other countries.
opera: ISBN 0-674-37501-7.
opera: Other notable 20th-century names include Ravel, Dukas, Roussel, Honegger and Milhaud.
opera: In 1673, Thomas Shadwell's Psyche, patterned on the 1671 'comédie-ballet' of the same name produced by Molière and Jean-Baptiste Lully.
opera: Gluck strove to achieve a "beautiful simplicity".
opera: Apel, Willi, ed.
opera: Before such elements were forced out of opera seria, many libretti had featured a separately unfolding comic plot as sort of an "opera-within-an-opera".
opera: But Mozart's contribution to opera seria was more mixed; by his time it was dying away, and in spite of such fine works as Idomeneo and La clemenza di Tito, he would not succeed in bringing the art form back to life again.
opera: These motifs never are expanded upon, and just as the audience expects a character to launch into a long melody, a new character speaks, introducing a new phrase.
opera: Little, Terence Blanchard, Jennifer Higdon, Tobias Picker, Michael Ching, Anthony Davis, and Ricky Ian Gordon.
opera: La bohème went out to 671 screens worldwide.
opera: View at Internet Archive.
opera: (Philip Glass also makes use of atonality, though his style is generally described as minimalist, usually thought of as another 20th-century development.)
However, operatic modernism's use of atonality also sparked a backlash in the form of neoclassicism.
opera: During the late 19th century, the Austrian composer Johann Strauss II, an admirer of the French-language operettas composed by Jacques Offenbach, composed several German-language operettas, the most famous of which was Die Fledermaus.
opera: The current emphasis on a wide vocal range was primarily an invention of the Classical period.
opera: Strauss continued to produce a highly varied body of operatic works, often with libretti by the poet Hugo von Hofmannsthal.
opera: Mozart with Lorenzo Da Ponte.
opera: Until the mid-1950s, it was acceptable to produce operas in translations even if these had not been authorised by the composer or the original librettists.
opera: Opera was brought to Russia in the 1730s by the Italian operatic troupes and soon it became an important part of entertainment for the Russian Imperial Court and aristocracy.
opera: The terminology of the various kinds of operatic voices is described in detail below.
opera: Wagner was one of the most revolutionary and controversial composers in musical history.
opera: The tradition was developed in the 19th century by Beethoven with his Fidelio (1805), inspired by the climate of the French Revolution.
opera: This was an afterpiece that came at the end of a play.
opera: This success was followed by The Cruelty of the Spaniards in Peru (1658) and The History of Sir Francis Drake (1659).
opera: Well after his Rimsky-Korsakov-inspired works The Nightingale (1914), and Mavra (1922), Stravinsky continued to ignore serialist technique and eventually wrote a full-fledged 18th-century-style diatonic number opera The Rake's Progress (1951).
opera: Nevertheless, some smaller companies have found ways of drawing new audiences.
opera: Markham (1909).
opera: However, the real birth of Russian opera came with Mikhail Glinka and his two great operas A Life for the Tsar (1836) and Ruslan and Lyudmila (1842).
opera: at Project Gutenberg
Leopold, Silke, "The Idea of National Opera, c.
opera: Rossini's Guillaume Tell helped found the new genre of grand opera, a form whose most famous exponent was another foreigner, Giacomo Meyerbeer.
opera: Although supertitles were first almost universally condemned as a distraction, today many opera houses provide either supertitles, generally projected above the theatre's proscenium arch, or individual seat screens where spectators can choose from more than one language.
opera: By the 1820s, Gluckian influence in France had given way to a taste for Italian bel canto, especially after the arrival of Rossini in Paris.
opera: Tyrrell, John.
opera: Stanisław Moniuszko's opera Straszny Dwór (in English The Haunted Manor) (1861–64) represents a nineteenth-century peak of Polish national opera.
opera: Some composers, notably Wagner, have written their own libretti; others have worked in close collaboration with their librettists, e.g.
opera: Meyerbeer's works, such as Les Huguenots, emphasised virtuoso singing and extraordinary stage effects.
opera: ISBN 978-0-393-05721-8.
opera: These terms, although not fully describing a singing voice, associate the singer's voice with the roles most suitable to the singer's vocal characteristics.
opera: It was performed live at the festival and streamed live on the internet.
opera: These subtitles target not only the hard of hearing but the audience generally, since a sung discourse is much harder to understand than a spoken one—even in the ears of native speakers.
opera: Other Ukrainian opera composers include Mykola Lysenko (Taras Bulba and Natalka Poltavka), Heorhiy Maiboroda, and Yuliy Meitus.
opera: The 19th century saw the rise of the continuous music drama.
opera: The first to succeed however, was Gluck.
opera: Charles Burney wrote that Arne introduced "a light, airy, original, and pleasing melody, wholly different from that of Purcell or Handel, whom all English composers had either pillaged or imitated".
opera: The bass repertoire is wide and varied, stretching from the comedy of Leporello in Don Giovanni to the nobility of Wotan in Wagner's Ring Cycle, to the conflicted King Phillip of Verdi's Don Carlos.
opera: The first Brazilian opera for a libretto in Portuguese was A Noite de São João, by Elias Álvares Lobo.
opera: Beginning in 2006, a number of major opera houses began to present live high-definition video transmissions of their performances in cinemas all over the world.
opera: In the late 17th century and early 18th century, the Theater am Gänsemarkt in Hamburg presented German operas by Keiser, Telemann and Handel.
opera: In England, opera's antecedent was the 17th-century jig.
opera: Other terms originating in the star casting system of the Parisian theatres are baryton-martin and soprano falcon.
opera: Victoria and Albert Museum.
opera: "The biggest chunk of operatic training is in linguistics and musicianship", explains mezzo-soprano Dolora Zajick.
opera: Because of this, operas such as Lucia di Lammermoor or Don Carlos are today deemed canonical in both their French and Italian versions.
opera: However, it took until mid 20th century for Iranian composers to start experiencing with the field, especially as the construction of the Roudaki Hall in 1967, made possible staging of a large variety of works for stage.
opera: In the 20th century, other operas created by Polish composers included King Roger by Karol Szymanowski and Ubu Rex by Krzysztof Penderecki.
opera: Many opera companies attempted to attract a younger audience to halt the larger trend of greying audiences for classical music since the last decades of the 20th century.
opera: Rather than long, suspended melodies, Falstaff contains many little motifs and mottos, that, rather than being expanded upon, are introduced and subsequently dropped, only to be brought up again later.
opera: In Russian Eastern Europe, several national operas began to emerge.
opera: For the true contralto, the range of parts is more limited, which has given rise to the insider joke that contraltos only sing "witches, bitches, and britches" roles.
opera: Opera would never be the same after Wagner and for many composers his legacy proved a heavy burden.
opera: It is less grandiose than grand opera, but without the spoken dialogue of opèra comique.
opera: The Metropolitan Opera began a series of live high-definition video transmissions to cinemas around the world in 2006.
opera: Savonlinna Opera Festival provided professional soloists, an 80-member choir, a symphony orchestra, and the stage machinery.
opera: After reaching Vienna in 1892 and London in 1895 it rapidly became part of the repertory of every major opera company worldwide.
opera: The first opera written in Russian was Tsefal i Prokris by the Italian composer Francesco Araja (1755).
opera: The key figure of Hungarian national opera in the 19th century was Ferenc Erkel, whose works mostly dealt with historical themes.
opera: Opera composers such as Domenico Sarro, Leonardo Vinci, Giambattista Pergolesi, Leonardo Leo, and Johann Adolph Hasse added new instruments to the opera orchestra and gave the instruments new roles.
opera: Dafne, however, is lost.
opera: I sing Italian, Czech, Russian, French, German, English."
In the 1980s, supertitles (sometimes called surtitles) began to appear.
opera: Notable examples in this style were produced by Monsigny, Philidor and, above all, Grétry.
opera: London: Wm.
opera: Johann Fausten.
opera: The Cambridge Companion to Twentieth-Century Opera.
opera: The bel canto opera movement flourished in the early 19th century and is exemplified by the operas of Rossini, Bellini, Donizetti, Pacini, Mercadante and many others.
opera: Early performances of opera were too infrequent for singers to make a living exclusively from the style, but with the birth of commercial opera in the mid-17th century, professional performers began to emerge.
opera: It was the first opera specifically composed for television in America.
opera: He first won fame with the scandalous Salome and the dark tragedy Elektra, in which tonality was pushed to the limits.
opera: In rivalry with imported Italian opera productions, a separate French tradition was founded by the Italian-born French composer Jean-Baptiste Lully at the court of King Louis XIV.
opera: The performance is typically given in an opera house, accompanied by an orchestra or smaller musical ensemble, which since the early 19th century has been led by a conductor.
opera: This fashion of opera directed opera from Verdi, onward, exercising tremendous influence on his successors Giacomo Puccini, Richard Strauss, and Benjamin Britten.
opera: This is attributable to their uneven invention and libretti, and perhaps also their staging requirements – The Jacobin, Armida, Vanda and Dimitrij need stages large enough to portray invading armies.
opera: "[I have to understand] not only what I'm singing, but what everyone else is singing.
opera: Efforts resulted in lowering the average age of the Met's audience to 58 in 2018, the average age at Berlin State Opera was reported as 54, and Paris Opera reported an average age of 48.
opera: Chinese contemporary classical opera, a Chinese language form of Western style opera that is distinct from traditional Chinese opera, has had operas dating back to The White-Haired Girl in 1945.
opera: Just as intermedi had once been performed in between the acts of stage plays, operas in the new comic genre of intermezzi, which developed largely in Naples in the 1710s and 1720s, were initially staged during the intermissions of opera seria.
opera: His Der Freischütz (1821) shows his genius for creating a supernatural atmosphere.
opera: Berlioz's epic masterpiece Les Troyens, the culmination of the Gluckian tradition, was not given a full performance for almost a hundred years.
opera: Although Arne imitated many elements of Italian opera, he was perhaps the only English composer at that time who was able to move beyond the Italian influences and create his own unique and distinctly English voice.
opera: Today composers such as Thomas Adès continue to export English opera abroad.
opera: Perhaps, the most famous Iranian opera is Rostam and Sohrab by Loris Tjeknavorian premiered not until the early 2000s.
opera: By the time Wagnerian operas were introduced, the complexity of the works and the huge orchestras used to play them gave the conductor an increasingly important role.
opera: Monteverdi had moved to the city from Mantua and composed his last operas, Il ritorno d'Ulisse in patria and L'incoronazione di Poppea, for the Venetian theatre in the 1640s.
opera: In Italian opera after about 1800, the "overture" became known as the sinfonia.
opera: With the rise of recording technology, singers such as Enrico Caruso and Maria Callas became known to much wider audiences that went beyond the circle of opera fans.
opera: Inigo Jones became the quintessential designer of these productions, and this style was to dominate the English stage for three centuries.
opera: With Wagner came an emphasis on vocal heft for his protagonist roles, with this vocal category described as Heldentenor; this heroic voice had its more Italianate counterpart in such roles as Calaf in Puccini's Turandot.
opera: This overture style was also used in English opera, most notably in Henry Purcell's Dido and Aeneas.
opera: Handel also uses the French overture form in some of his Italian operas such as Giulio Cesare.
opera: Eventually this role of music director became termed the conductor, and a podium was used to make it easier for all the musicians to see him or her.
opera: In Parker (1994).
opera: Fisher also notes the term Sinfonia avanti l'opera (literally, the "symphony before the opera") was "an early term for a sinfonia used to begin an opera, that is, as an overture as opposed to one serving to begin a later section of the work".
opera: The role of the hero was usually written for the high-pitched male castrato voice, which was produced by castration of the singer before puberty, which prevented a boy's larynx from being transformed at puberty.
opera: Literally "beautiful singing", bel canto opera derives from the Italian stylistic singing school of the same name.
opera: Popular musicals such as Show Boat, West Side Story, Brigadoon, Sweeney Todd, Passion, Evita, The Light in the Piazza, The Phantom of the Opera and others tell dramatic stories through complex music and in the 2010s they are sometimes seen in opera houses.
opera: Melodic or semi-melodic passages occurring in the midst of, or instead of, recitative, are also referred to as arioso.
opera: Lighter opéra comique also enjoyed tremendous success in the hands of Boïeldieu, Auber, Hérold and Adam.
opera: Russian, Czech, Polish and Hungarian Opera to 1900".
opera: ISBN 0-385-26339-2.
opera: His modernised ballad opera, Love in a Village (1762), began a vogue for pastiche opera that lasted well into the 19th century.
opera: However, the honour of being the first opera still to be regularly performed goes to Claudio Monteverdi's L'Orfeo, composed for the court of Mantua in 1607.
opera: In the latter, the actors declaim portions of speech to a specified rhythm over instrumental accompaniment, peculiarly similar to the older German genre of Melodrama.
opera: Male singers can be classified by vocal range as bass, bass-baritone, baritone, baritenor, tenor and countertenor, and female singers as contralto, mezzo-soprano and soprano.
opera: In Milan, Italy, 60% of La Scala's annual budget of €115 million is from ticket sales and private donations, with the remaining 40% coming from public funds.
opera: Yet most of the major German composers of the time, including Handel himself, as well as Graun, Hasse and later Gluck, chose to write most of their operas in foreign languages, especially Italian.
opera: The French disliked castrati, preferring their male heroes to be sung by an haute-contre (a high tenor), of which Joseph Legros (1739–1793) was a leading example.
opera: By the 19th century, accompagnato had gained the upper hand, the orchestra played a much bigger role, and Wagner revolutionised opera by abolishing almost all distinction between aria and recitative in his quest for what Wagner termed "endless melody".
opera: During the late 18th century up until the mid-19th century, Italian opera was immensely popular in Spain, supplanting the native form.
opera: Starting under the influence of Weber and Meyerbeer, he gradually evolved a new concept of opera as a Gesamtkunstwerk (a "complete work of art"), a fusion of music, poetry and painting.
opera: Opera is a key part of Western classical music, and Italian tradition in particular.
opera: Since his theatre was not licensed to produce drama, he asked several of the leading composers (Lawes, Cooke, Locke, Coleman and Hudson) to set sections of it to music.
opera: In the early 1850s, Verdi produced his three most popular operas: Rigoletto, Il trovatore and La traviata.
opera: Examples of famous operas in the bel canto style include Rossini's Il barbiere di Siviglia and La Cenerentola, as well as Bellini's Norma, La sonnambula and I puritani and Donizetti's Lucia di Lammermoor, L'elisir d'amore and Don Pasquale.
opera: Many of the most challenging tenor roles in the repertory were written during the bel canto era, such as Donizetti's sequence of 9 Cs above middle C during La fille du régiment.
opera: It was written around 1597, largely under the inspiration of an elite circle of literate Florentine humanists who gathered as the "Camerata de' Bardi".
opera: The French overture as found in Jean-Baptiste Lully's operas consist of a slow introduction in a marked "dotted rhythm", followed by a lively movement in fugato style.
opera: In 2005, La Scala received 25% of Italy's total state subsidy of €464 million for the performing arts.
opera: Antonín Dvořák's nine operas, except his first, have librettos in Czech and were intended to convey the Czech national spirit, as were some of his choral works.
opera: The first German opera was Dafne, composed by Heinrich Schütz in 1627, but the music score has not survived.
opera: The role of the male hero was usually entrusted to a castrato, and by the 18th century, when Italian opera was performed throughout Europe, leading castrati who possessed extraordinary vocal virtuosity, such as Senesino and Farinelli, became international stars.
opera: Composers such as Richard Strauss, Claude Debussy, Giacomo Puccini, Paul Hindemith, Benjamin Britten and Hans Pfitzner pushed Wagnerian harmony further with a more extreme use of chromaticism and greater use of dissonance.
opera: Verdi's operas resonated with the growing spirit of Italian nationalism in the post-Napoleonic era, and he quickly became an icon of the patriotic movement for a unified Italy.
opera: Since 2009, complete performances can be downloaded and are live streamed.
opera: In the UK, Arts Council England provides funds to Opera North, the Royal Opera House, Welsh National Opera, and English National Opera.
opera: After Rameau's death, the Bohemian-Austrian composer Gluck was persuaded to produce six operas for the Parisian stage in the 1770s.
opera: Italian opera set the Baroque standard.
opera: In February 2015, concerns over English National Opera's business plan led to the Arts Council placing it "under special funding arrangements" in what The Independent termed "the unprecedented step" of threatening to withdraw public funding if the council's concerns were not met by 2017.
opera: In Falstaff, Verdi sets the pre-eminent standard for the form and style that would dominate opera throughout the twentieth century.
opera: The approach of the English Commonwealth closed theatres and halted any developments that may have led to the establishment of English opera.
opera: At the turn of the century, a distinct national opera movement also began to emerge in Georgia under the leadership Zacharia Paliashvili, who fused local folk songs and stories with 19th-century Romantic classical themes.
opera: The libretto was written by Joomart Bokonbaev, Jusup Turusbekov, and Kybanychbek Malikov.
opera: La traviata was also novel.
opera: Cambridge, Massachusetts: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.
opera: In between the bass and the tenor is the baritone, which also varies in weight from say, Guglielmo in Mozart's Così fan tutte to Posa in Verdi's Don Carlos; the actual designation "baritone" was not standard until the mid-19th century.
opera: Knowledge of European languages, especially Italian, French, and German, is today an important part of the training for professional singers.
opera: In the 2013 season, the festival streamed all six of its productions online.
opera: These final two works showed Verdi at his most masterfully orchestrated, and are both incredibly influential, and modern.
opera: In 1644, Sigmund Staden produced the first Singspiel, Seelewig, a popular form of German-language opera in which singing alternates with spoken dialogue.
opera: Finally, Wagner built his own opera house at Bayreuth with part of the patronage from Ludwig II of Bavaria, exclusively dedicated to performing his own works in the style he wanted.
opera: Following Purcell, the popularity of opera in England dwindled for several decades.
opera: and Allison Brewster Franzetti: The Book of 101 Opera Librettos: Complete Original Language Texts with English Translations, Black Dog & Leventhal Publishers, 1996.
opera: Wagner's operas were scored with unprecedented scope and complexity, adding more brass instruments and huge ensemble sizes: indeed, his score to Das Rheingold calls for six harps.
opera: In traditional number opera, singers employ two styles of singing: recitative, a speech-inflected style, and self-contained arias.
opera: For example, "Germany has about 80 year-round opera houses [as of 2004], while the U.S., with more than three times the population, does not have any.
opera: Vocal duets, trios and other ensembles often occur, and choruses are used to comment on the action.
opera: Between 2012 and 2015, these four opera companies along with the English National Ballet, Birmingham Royal Ballet and Northern Ballet accounted for 22% of the funds in the Arts Council's national portfolio.
opera: His later, mature works incorporate his earlier studies of national folk music in a modern, highly original synthesis, first evident in the opera Jenůfa, which was premiered in 1904 in Brno.
opera: This was the equivalent of the German singspiel, where arias alternated with spoken dialogue.
opera: Smaller companies in the US have a more fragile existence, and they usually depend on a "patchwork quilt" of support from state and local governments, local businesses, and fundraisers.
opera: ISBN 978-1-884822-79-7
Rous, Samuel Holland (1919).
opera: ISBN 0-19-816282-0 – via Internet Archive.
opera: Opera is a form of Western theatre in which music is a fundamental component and dramatic roles are taken by singers.
opera: In addition to radio and television broadcasts of opera performances, which have had some success in gaining new audiences, broadcasts of live performances to movie theatres have shown the potential to reach new audiences.
opera: These separate plots were almost immediately resurrected in a separately developing tradition that partly derived from the commedia dell'arte, a long-flourishing improvisatory stage tradition of Italy.
opera: As a result, critics began to regard the orchestra as performing a role analogous to that of a literary narrator."
As the role of the orchestra and other instrumental ensembles changed over the history of opera, so did the role of leading the musicians.
opera: They added wind instruments to the strings and used orchestral instruments to play instrumental solos, as a way to mark certain arias as special.
opera: History of the Opera, from its Origin in Italy to the Present Time.
opera: The Mantua court of the Gonzagas, employers of Monteverdi, played a significant role in the origin of opera employing not only court singers of the concerto delle donne (till 1598), but also one of the first actual "opera singers", Madama Europa.
opera: The operatic innovations of Arnold Schoenberg and his successors are discussed in the section on modernism.
opera: These pieces were encouraged by Oliver Cromwell because they were critical of Spain.
opera: The string orchestra typically only played when the singer was not singing, such as during a singer's "...entrances and exits, between vocal numbers, [or] for [accompanying] dancing".
opera: In Latin America, opera started as a result of European colonisation.
opera: Stories of The Operas with Illustrations....
opera: Comprehensive opera performances database, Operabase
Opera-Inside, opera and aria guides, biographies, history
StageAgent – synopses and character descriptions for most major operas Archived 6 January 2010 at the Wayback Machine
What's it about?
opera: With the English Restoration, foreign (especially French) musicians were welcomed back.
opera: Also in the 20th century, American composers like George Gershwin (Porgy and Bess), Scott Joplin (Treemonisha), Leonard Bernstein (Candide), Gian Carlo Menotti, Douglas Moore, and Carlisle Floyd began to contribute English-language operas infused with touches of popular musical styles.
opera: Operatic modernism truly began in the operas of two Viennese composers, Arnold Schoenberg and his student Alban Berg, both composers and advocates of atonality and its later development (as worked out by Schoenberg), dodecaphony.
opera: The tenor voice, from the Classical era onwards, has traditionally been assigned the role of male protagonist.
opera: Tim Blanning and Hagen Schulze (New York: Oxford University Press, 2006), 19–34.
opera: Cooke, Mervyn (2005).
opera: Francesco Algarotti's Essay on the Opera (1755) proved to be an inspiration for Christoph Willibald Gluck's reforms.
opera: The Oxford Illustrated History of Opera.
opera: Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
opera: Italian libretti remained dominant in the classical period as well, for example in the operas of Mozart, who wrote in Vienna near the century's close.
opera: European opera houses and festivals including The Royal Opera in London, La Scala in Milan, the Salzburg Festival, La Fenice in Venice, and the Maggio Musicale in Florence have also transmitted their productions to theatres in cities around the world since 2006, including 90 cities in the U.S.
opera: Then Strauss changed tack in his greatest success, Der Rosenkavalier, where Mozart and Viennese waltzes became as important an influence as Wagner.
opera: It was composed by Vladimir Vlasov, Abdylas Maldybaev and Vladimir Fere.
opera: Theatre and Performance.
opera: From the Bel Canto era to Verdi, composers would sometimes supervise versions of their operas in both Italian and French.
opera: Subtitles in one or more languages have become standard in opera broadcasts, simulcasts, and DVD editions.
opera: The Story of Opera.
opera: But the drama is understated, enigmatic and completely un-Wagnerian.
opera: cities carry the showings.
opera: ISSN 1471-6836 (electronic).
opera: This is evident in his first reform opera, Orfeo ed Euridice, where his non-virtuosic vocal melodies are supported by simple harmonies and a richer orchestra presence throughout.
opera: It was frequently libellous and scandalous and consisted in the main of dialogue set to music arranged from popular tunes.
opera: However, in 1656, the dramatist Sir William Davenant produced The Siege of Rhodes.
opera: Opera seria was elevated in tone and highly stylised in form, usually consisting of secco recitative interspersed with long da capo arias.
opera: More recently Sir Harrison Birtwistle has emerged as one of Britain's most significant contemporary composers from his first opera Punch and Judy to his most recent critical success in The Minotaur.
opera: In general, orchestras got bigger, new instruments were added, such as additional percussion instruments (e.g., bass drum, cymbals, snare drum, etc.).
opera: The 20th century saw many experiments with modern styles, such as atonality and serialism (Arnold Schoenberg and Alban Berg), neoclassicism (Igor Stravinsky), and minimalism (Philip Glass and John Adams).
opera: Porgy and Bess (1935), influenced by jazz styles, and Candide (1956), with its sweeping, lyrical passages and farcical parodies of opera, both opened on Broadway but became accepted as part of the opera repertory.
opera: The changing role of the orchestra in opera is described in more detail below.
opera: LCCN 42029956.
opera: In 2007, Met performances were shown in over 424 theatres in 350 U.S.
opera: The role of the orchestra in accompanying the singers changed over the 19th century, as the Classical style transitioned to the Romantic era.
opera: Many French critics angrily rejected Wagner's music dramas while many French composers closely imitated them with variable success.
opera: Other opera composers of the time include Marschner, Schubert and Lortzing, but the most significant figure was undoubtedly Wagner.
opera: Dafne by Jacopo Peri was the earliest composition considered opera, as understood today.
opera: Janáček's later works are his most celebrated.
opera: By far the most successful of the operas is Rusalka which contains the well-known aria "Měsíčku na nebi hlubokém" ("Song to the Moon"); it is played on contemporary opera stages frequently outside the Czech Republic.
opera: Yet another sub-classification can be made according to acting skills or requirements, for example the basso buffo who often must be a specialist in patter as well as a comic actor.
opera: For example, opera houses in Italy routinely staged Wagner in Italian.
opera: However, Antônio Carlos Gomes is generally regarded as the most outstanding Brazilian composer, having a relative success in Italy with its Brazilian-themed operas with Italian librettos, such as Il Guarany.
opera: The theatre company of Abel Seyler pioneered serious German-language opera in the 1770s, marking a break with the previous simpler musical entertainment.
opera: Italian opera held a great sway over German-speaking countries until the late 18th century.
opera: Its 400 members from 43 countries wrote the libretto, composed the music, and designed the sets and costumes using the Wreckamovie web platform.
opera: The members of the Camerata considered that the "chorus" parts of Greek dramas were originally sung, and possibly even the entire text of all roles; opera was thus conceived as a way of "restoring" this situation.
opera: ISBN 0-521-78009-8.
opera: Significantly, Dafne was an attempt to revive the classical Greek drama, part of the wider revival of antiquity characteristic of the Renaissance.
opera: These afforded great opportunity for virtuosic singing and during the golden age of opera seria the singer really became the star.
opera: His most important follower Francesco Cavalli helped spread opera throughout Italy.
opera: Also among the vanguard was the Russian Igor Stravinsky.
opera: It uses three generally homophonic movements: fast–slow–fast.
opera: The overture was frequently followed by a series of dance tunes before the curtain rose.
opera: The production was transmitted via satellite to 105 countries.
opera: In the Baroque era, the musicians were usually directed by the harpsichord player, although the French composer Lully is known to have conducted with a long staff.
opera: One reason for this was an attempt to attract members of the growing merchant class, newly wealthy, but still not as cultured as the nobility, to the public opera houses.
opera: Olivier Messiaen's lengthy sacred drama Saint François d'Assise (1983) has also attracted widespread attention.
opera: This is carried out in detail in the Fach system of German speaking countries, where historically opera and spoken drama were often put on by the same repertory company.
opera: In the first decade of the 21st century, the librettist of an early Birtwistle opera, Michael Nyman, has been focusing on composing operas, including Facing Goya, Man and Boy: Dada, and Love Counts.
opera: In the 20th century, English opera began to assert more independence, with works of Ralph Vaughan Williams and in particular Benjamin Britten, who in a series of works that remain in standard repertory today, revealed an excellent flair for the dramatic and superb musicality.
opera: Arne was the first English composer to experiment with Italian-style all-sung comic opera, with his greatest success being Thomas and Sally in 1760.
opera: Modern opera conductors have a challenging role: they have to direct both the orchestra in the orchestra pit and the singers on stage.
opera: In some forms of opera, such as singspiel, opéra comique, operetta, and semi-opera, the recitative is mostly replaced by spoken dialogue.
opera: In the 18th century, a number of Italian sopranos gained international renown and often engaged in fierce rivalry, as was the case with Faustina Bordoni and Francesca Cuzzoni, who started a fistfight with one another during a performance of a Handel opera.
opera: Composers such as Strauss, Britten, Shostakovich and Stravinsky adopted and expanded upon this style.
opera: As of June 2008, approximately 125 theatres in 117 U.S.
opera: Italian libretti were the norm, even when a German composer like Handel found himself composing the likes of Rinaldo and Giulio Cesare for London audiences.
opera: The mid-to-late 19th century was a golden age of opera, led and dominated by Giuseppe Verdi in Italy and Richard Wagner in Germany.
opera: For the main articles, see soprano, mezzo-soprano, contralto, tenor, baritone, bass, countertenor and castrato.
opera: A later work by Peri, Euridice, dating from 1600, is the first opera score to have survived until the present day.
opera: Many of Benjamin Britten's operas are scored for as few as 13 instrumentalists; Mark Adamo's two-act realization of Little Women is scored for 18 instrumentalists.
opera: TV broadcasts typically include subtitles even if intended for an audience who knows the language well (for example, a RAI broadcast of an Italian opera).
opera: ISSN 0008-199X (print).
opera: The only exceptions were ballad operas, such as John Gay's The Beggar's Opera (1728), musical burlesques, European operettas, and late Victorian era light operas, notably the Savoy operas of W.
opera: Their operas formed another genre, the opéra lyrique, combined opéra comique and grand opera.
opera: The Victrola Book of the Opera.
opera: London: Walter Scott Publishing Co.
opera: It tells the story of courtesan, and it includes elements of verismo or "realistic" opera, because rather than featuring great kings and figures from literature, it focuses on the tragedies of ordinary life and society.
opera: In this climate, the operas of the French-born composer Hector Berlioz struggled to gain a hearing.
opera: Opera seria was the most prestigious form of Italian opera, until Christoph Willibald Gluck reacted against its artificiality with his "reform" operas in the 1760s.
opera: European public funding to opera has led to a disparity between the number of year-round opera houses in Europe and the United States.
opera: Over the 18th century, arias were increasingly accompanied by the orchestra.
opera: As in Wagner's works, the orchestra plays a leading role in Debussy's unique opera Pelléas et Mélisande (1902) and there are no real arias, only recitative.
opera: (1997), 672 pages, ISBN 1-85828-138-5
Opera: A Concise History, by Leslie Orrey and Rodney Milnes, World of Art, Thames & Hudson
"Opera", Herbert Weinstock and Barbara Russano Hanning, Encyclopædia Britannica
Abbate, Carolyn; Parker, Roger (2012).
opera: During the Revolutionary and Napoleonic period, composers such as Étienne Méhul, Luigi Cherubini and Gaspare Spontini, who were followers of Gluck, brought a new seriousness to the genre, which had never been wholly "comic" in any case.
opera: Discusses the aesthetics of opera.
opera: During that period, the Council undertook an analysis of its funding for large-scale opera and ballet companies, setting recommendations and targets for the companies to meet prior to the 2015–2018 funding decisions.
opera: Many foreign composers such as Baldassare Galuppi, Giovanni Paisiello, Giuseppe Sarti, and Domenico Cimarosa (as well as various others) were invited to Russia to compose new operas, mostly in the Italian language.
opera: The orchestra has also provided an instrumental overture before the singers come onstage since the 1600s.
opera: Another exception are opera productions intended for a young audience, such as Humperdinck's Hansel and Gretel and some productions of Mozart's The Magic Flute.
opera: Camden, New Jersey: Victor Talking Machine Company.
opera: ISBN 0-333-73432-7, 1-56159-228-5
The Viking Opera Guide, edited by Amanda Holden (1994), 1,328 pages, ISBN 0-670-81292-7
The Oxford Dictionary of Opera, by John Warrack and Ewan West (1992), 782 pages, ISBN 0-19-869164-5
Opera, the Rough Guide, by Matthew Boyden et al.
opera: Schoenberg also occasionally used Sprechstimme.
opera: Since the invention of radio and television, operas were also performed on (and written for) these media.
opera: Jules Massenet, Camille Saint-Saëns and Léo Delibes all composed works which are still part of the standard repertory, examples being Massenet's Manon, Saint-Saëns' Samson et Dalila and Delibes' Lakmé.
opera: They were followed by composers such as Philip Glass (Einstein on the Beach), Mark Adamo, John Corigliano (The Ghosts of Versailles), Robert Moran, John Adams (Nixon in China), André Previn and Jake Heggie.
opera: Two French voice types, premiere dugazon and deuxieme dugazon, were named after successive stages in the career of Louise-Rosalie Lefebvre (Mme.
opera: Harvard Dictionary of Music (2nd ed.).
opera: In Wagner and the work of subsequent composers, such as Benjamin Britten, the orchestra "often communicates facts about the story that exceed the levels of awareness of the characters therein.
opera: Opera did not remain confined to court audiences for long.
opera: In 1765 Melchior Grimm published "Poème lyrique", an influential article for the Encyclopédie on lyric and opera librettos.
opera: William Davenant produced The Tempest in the same year, which was the first musical adaption of a Shakespeare play (composed by Locke and Johnson).
opera: Mozart's Singspiele, Die Entführung aus dem Serail (1782) and Die Zauberflöte (1791) were an important breakthrough in achieving international recognition for German opera.
opera: Despite the popularity of Italian opera seria throughout much of Europe during the Baroque period, Italian opera never gained much of a foothold in France, where its own national operatic tradition was more popular instead.
opera: Dorschel, Andreas, 'The Paradox of Opera', The Cambridge Quarterly 30 (2001), no.
opera: Another aspect of modernist opera is the shift away from long, suspended melodies, to short quick mottos, as first illustrated by Giuseppe Verdi in his Falstaff.
opera: Several composers of the period, including Niccolò Jommelli and Tommaso Traetta, attempted to put these ideals into practice.
opera: Schoenberg's theories have influenced (either directly or indirectly) significant numbers of opera composers ever since, even if they themselves did not compose using his techniques.
opera: Farinelli was one of the most famous singers of the 18th century.
opera: The career of the first major female star (or prima donna), Anna Renzi, dates to the mid-17th century.
opera: It was fully staged in 1945 in Armenia.
opera: In the 18th century, Italian opera continued to dominate most of Europe (except France), attracting foreign composers such as George Frideric Handel.
opera: Lists of operas, including a general list as well as by theme, by country, by medium, and by venue
List of fictional literature featuring opera
Opera management
Radio opera
Chronological list of operatic sopranos
opera: In recent years many of the "trouser roles" from the Baroque era, originally written for women, and those originally sung by castrati, have been reassigned to countertenors.
opera: At the same time, by the middle of the 18th century another genre was gaining popularity in France: opéra comique.
opera: This was a style introduced by Pietro Mascagni's Cavalleria rusticana and Ruggero Leoncavallo's Pagliacci that came to dominate the world's opera stages with such popular works as Giacomo Puccini's La bohème, Tosca, and Madama Butterfly.
opera: The first opera ever written in the Americas was 1701's La púrpura de la rosa, by Tomás de Torrejón y Velasco, a Peruvian composer born in Spain; a decade later, 1711's Partenope, by the Mexican Manuel de Zumaya, was the first opera written from a composer born in Latin America (music now lost).
opera: Smetana's eight operas created the bedrock of the Czech opera repertory, but of these only The Bartered Bride is performed regularly outside the composer's homeland.
opera: Subsequent composers have tended to follow Wagner's example, though some, such as Stravinsky in his The Rake's Progress, have bucked the trend.
opera: Composers thus influenced include the Englishman Benjamin Britten, the German Hans Werner Henze, and the Russian Dmitri Shostakovich.
opera: Basses have a long history in opera, having been used in opera seria in supporting roles, and sometimes for comic relief (as well as providing a contrast to the preponderance of high voices in this genre).
opera: Later Italian composers, such as Berio and Nono, have experimented with modernism.
opera: The first of these, Rigoletto, proved the most daring and revolutionary.
opera: Ukrainian opera was developed by Semen Hulak-Artemovsky (1813–1873) whose most famous work Zaporozhets za Dunayem (A Cossack Beyond the Danube) is regularly performed around the world.
opera: (Men sometimes sing in the "female" vocal ranges, in which case they are termed sopranist or countertenor.
opera: According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the Italian word was first used in the sense "composition in which poetry, dance, and music are combined" in 1639; the first recorded English usage in this sense dates to 1648.
opera: Opera in Argentina developed in the 20th century after the inauguration of Teatro Colón in Buenos Aires—with the opera Aurora, by Ettore Panizza, being heavily influenced by the Italian tradition, due to immigration.
opera: London's Daily Telegraph agreed, describing The Yeomen of the Guard as "a genuine English opera, forerunner of many others, let us hope, and possibly significant of an advance towards a national lyric stage".
opera: New York Times critic Anthony Tommasini has suggested that "companies inordinately beholden to standard repertory" are not reaching younger, more curious audiences.
opera: In Ben Jonson's Lovers Made Men (1617), "the whole masque was sung after the Italian manner, stilo recitativo".
opera: The soprano voice has typically been used as the voice of choice for the female protagonist of the opera since the latter half of the 18th century.
opera: In Wagnerian operas, the forefronting of the orchestra went beyond the overture.
opera: Starting with Cadmus et Hermione, Lully and his librettist Quinault created tragédie en musique, a form in which dance music and choral writing were particularly prominent.
opera: After Verdi, the sentimental "realistic" melodrama of verismo appeared in Italy.
opera: Parker, Roger, ed.
opera: MacMurray, Jessica M.
opera: They show the influence of Rameau, but simplified and with greater focus on the drama.
opera: As government and private patronage of the arts decreased throughout the 20th century, new works were often commissioned and performed with smaller budgets, very often resulting in chamber-sized works, and short, one-act operas.
opera: Simultaneously some domestic musicians of Ukrainian origin like Maxim Berezovsky and Dmitry Bortniansky were sent abroad to learn to write operas.
opera: The first third of the 19th century saw the high point of the bel canto style, with Gioachino Rossini, Gaetano Donizetti and Vincenzo Bellini all creating signature works of that style.
opera: The success of Jenůfa (often called the "Moravian national opera") at Prague in 1916 gave Janáček access to the world's great opera stages.
opera: In Wagnerian operas such as the Ring Cycle, the orchestra often played the recurrent musical themes or leitmotifs, a role which gave a prominence to the orchestra which "...elevated its status to that of a prima donna".
opera: In it, Verdi blurs the distinction between the aria and recitative as it never before was, leading the opera to be "an unending string of duets".
opera: The Metropolitan Opera in the US (often known as the Met) reported in 2011 that the average age of its audience was 60.
opera: At the same time, the influence of Richard Wagner was felt as a challenge to the French tradition.
opera: The Italian word opera means "work", both in the sense of the labour done and the result produced.
opera: The opening movement was normally in duple metre and in a major key; the slow movement in earlier examples was short, and could be in a contrasting key; the concluding movement was dance-like, most often with rhythms of the gigue or minuet, and returned to the key of the opening section.
opera: These works include complex polyphonic ensembles and reflect musical developments of their times.
opera: Leading Italian-born composers of opera seria include Alessandro Scarlatti, Antonio Vivaldi and Nicola Porpora.
opera: Originally understood as an entirely sung piece, in contrast to a play with songs, opera has come to include numerous genres, including some that include spoken dialogue such as Singspiel and Opéra comique.
opera: Weber, Mozart, and Wagner, in particular, were influenced by his ideals.
opera: In Iran, opera gained more attention after the introduction of Western classical music in the late 19th century.
opera: In Italy, a distinct form called "overture" arose in the 1680s, and became established particularly through the operas of Alessandro Scarlatti, and spread throughout Europe, supplanting the French form as the standard operatic overture by the mid-18th century.
opera: A revived interest in opera occurred in the 1730s which is largely attributed to Thomas Arne, both for his own compositions and for alerting Handel to the commercial possibilities of large-scale works in English.
opera: Oxford University Press
DiGaetani, John Louis: An Invitation to the Opera, Anchor Books, 1986/91.
opera: Schoenberg's early musico-dramatic works, Erwartung (1909, premiered in 1924) and Die glückliche Hand display heavy use of chromatic harmony and dissonance in general.
opera: Among his most often performed operas are Hunyadi László and Bánk bán.
opera: The emergence of the Internet has also affected the way in which audiences consume opera.
opera: The orchestration of orchestra parts also developed over the 19th century.
