oracle_corporation: It was also announced that Oracle will offer cloud services using Advanced Micro Devices' upcoming MI450 artificial intelligence chips.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Corporation originally leased two buildings on the Oracle Parkway site, moving its finance and administration departments from the corporation's former headquarters on Davis Drive, Belmont, California.
oracle_corporation: Oracle and Google (the defendant) tried to negotiate an agreement for Oracle to license Java to Google, which would have allowed Google to use Java in developing programs for mobile devices using the Android operating system.
oracle_corporation: On September 19, 2020, the Trump administration approved of the sale of TikTok's US operations to Oracle "[delaying] — by one week — restrictions that were originally to take effect" on September 20 as indicated by the United States Department of Commerce.
oracle_corporation: Understanding both customers and technology, Ellison designed database tables that he used to demonstrate the power of SQL to customers.
oracle_corporation: Eventually, Oracle purchased the complex and constructed four additional buildings.
oracle_corporation: Even IBM participated in the "billboard wars".
oracle_corporation: In 2007, Mark Hurd was ranked No.
oracle_corporation: Jeff Henley: vice chairman (since September 2014), previously chairman (2004–2014) and CFO (1991–2004).
oracle_corporation: They and Sippl described "a vicious cycle" of companies battling each other over, for example, whose distributed database had the best two-phase commit:
oracle_corporation: By the mid-1980s the company described its database as "the last DBMS", bragging that Oracle now had larger database revenue than dBASE maker Ashton-Tate, and stating that Microsoft, Ashton-Tate, and Sybase's planned Microsoft SQL Server "jumped on Oracle's SQL bandwagon".
oracle_corporation: Chizen, Senior Adviser to Permira Advisers and Former CEO of Adobe
George H.
oracle_corporation: He left to found and lead Salesforce in 1999.
oracle_corporation: pressured the E.U.
oracle_corporation: In December 2020, Oracle announced that it was moving its world headquarters from Redwood Shores to Austin, Texas.
oracle_corporation: Ellison stated in 1992 that Oracle had made "an incredible business mistake".
oracle_corporation: He died in 1994.
oracle_corporation: Ingres was its first major competitor; Oracle's strategy of focusing on one opponent at a time.
oracle_corporation: It created a strategic footprint in our customers.
oracle_corporation: When the site tried to go live on October 1, 2013, it failed, and registrations had to be taken using paper applications until the site could be fixed.
oracle_corporation: Oracle, the plaintiff, acquired ownership of the Java computer programming language when it acquired Sun Microsystems in January 2010.
oracle_corporation: legal history.
oracle_corporation: According to Bloomberg, Oracle's CEO-to-employee pay ratio is 1,205:1.
oracle_corporation: As of March 2026, Oracles TikTok stake was worth an estimated ~$2B.
oracle_corporation: EnterpriseDB, based on PostgreSQL, has recently made inroads by proclaiming that its product delivers Oracle-compatible SQL and procedural language features at a much lower price-point.
oracle_corporation: Oracle E-Business Suite
PeopleSoft Enterprise
PeopleSoft EnterpriseOne (Later renamed, JD Edwards EnterpriseOne)
PeopleSoft World (Later renamed, JD Edwards World)
Siebel
JD Edwards
Merchandise Operations Management (Formerly Retek)
Planning & Optimisation
Store Operations (Formerly 360Commerce)
oracle_corporation: On July 15, 2013, Oracle transferred its stock listing from Nasdaq to the New York Stock Exchange.
oracle_corporation: district court jury in Oakland, California, found that SAP AG must pay Oracle Corp $1.3 billion for copyright infringement, awarding damages that could be the largest-ever for copyright infringement.
oracle_corporation: In September 2025, Oracle and OpenAI signed a $300 billion contract for 4.5 gigawatts of power capacity over five years.
oracle_corporation: The awarded amount is one of the 10 or 20 largest jury verdicts in U.S.
oracle_corporation: 82 in the 2018 Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by total revenue.
oracle_corporation: Larry Ellison's sailing team competes as Oracle Team USA.
oracle_corporation: In addition to the damages payment, SAP has already paid Oracle $120 million for its legal fees.
oracle_corporation: Even publicly complimenting other rivals "to take the pressure off", Held said, while effective, caused it to neglect Sybase as a threat.
oracle_corporation: Complete."
As of late 2010: "Hardware and Software, Engineered to Work Together"
As of mid 2015: "Integrated Cloud Applications and Platform Services"
oracle_corporation: MacDonald credited Oracle with "being marketing oriented before any of the competitors ...
oracle_corporation: Bob Miner: co-founder of the company and co-architect of Oracle Database.
oracle_corporation: Many at Oracle wanted to discontinue applications; the first several versions were weak, they competed with the company's independent software vendors and value-added reseller partners, and applications were never profitable for Oracle until after 2000.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) is a web-based monitoring and management tool for Oracle products (and for some third-party software), including database management, middleware management, application management, hardware and virtualization management and cloud management.
oracle_corporation: Each class contains numerous methods, which instruct a program or app to do a certain task.
oracle_corporation: The smaller, later-founded database vendors viewed Oracle as their top enemy, with Bob MacDonald of Informix Software calling Oracle "the evil empire", while Humphries described his company as "the Klingons of" the bay.
oracle_corporation: Conversely, when Sybase had technical problems "it was: how do you put every ounce of product marketing, sales effort and focus on that".
oracle_corporation: The pre-developed code is organized into separate "packages" which each contain a set of "classes".
oracle_corporation: Communications
Construction and engineering (formerly the Primavera GBU)
Energy and Water
Financial services
Food and Beverages
Health sciences
Hospitality
Retail
oracle_corporation: On March 22, 2007, Oracle filed a lawsuit against SAP.
oracle_corporation: Oracle is one of the approved employers of ACCA and the median employee compensation rate was $89,887.
oracle_corporation: On March 12, 1986, the company had its initial public offering.
oracle_corporation: The newsletter said that revenue in fiscal 1983 would be about $8 million and would double in 1984.
oracle_corporation: I mean, it was amazing how you could get product management, marketing, and sales focused.
oracle_corporation: In 1995, Oracle Systems Corporation changed its name to Oracle Corporation, officially named Oracle, but is sometimes referred to as Oracle Corporation, the name of the holding company.
oracle_corporation: In April 2026, it was reported that Oracle laid off nearly 12,000 staff in India, according to the impacted employees.
oracle_corporation: The investigation reportedly included a $1,200 offer to janitors at the Association for Competitive Technology to look through Microsoft's trash.
oracle_corporation: Ellison wanted to make Oracle's product compatible with System R, but failed to do so as IBM kept the error codes for its DBMS a secret.
oracle_corporation: In October 2025, Oracle and Microsoft announced a partnership to enhance supply chain efficiency and responsiveness for manufacturers.
oracle_corporation: Official website 
Oracle Corporation on OpenSecrets, a website that tracks and publishes data on campaign finance and lobbying 
Business data for Oracle Corporation: 
Oracle Corporation companies grouped at OpenCorporates
oracle_corporation: In 2004, Oracle's sales grew at a rate of 14.5% to $6.2 billion, giving it 41.3% and the top share of the relational-database market (InformationWeek – March 2005), with market share estimated at up to 44.6% in 2005 by some sources.
oracle_corporation: In 2026, IHG Hotels & Resorts onboarded OPERA Cloud as its official PMS.
oracle_corporation: Larry Rowe of Ingres said "you could never come up with a strategy to beat Oracle because whatever you said today, two days later Ellison was saying it with more marketing dollars".
oracle_corporation: He left Oracle in 1982.
oracle_corporation: These services are used to build, deploy, integrate and extend applications in the cloud.
oracle_corporation: Oracle acknowledged IBM as the standard while emphasizing its own superiority, touting "total IBM SQL compatibility" while IBM's software ran "only on IBM mainframes".
oracle_corporation: According to Oracle Corporation, the majority of SAP's customers use Oracle databases.
oracle_corporation: With the group's help, Oracle went on to acquire the contract.
oracle_corporation: If he went into an account, one of our best guys was in right after them to make sure that they didn't win that business.
oracle_corporation: It was important for somebody else to lose".
oracle_corporation: In 2018, Oracle opened a new office in the neighboorhod of East Riverside in southeast Austin, Texas.
oracle_corporation: market transfer.
oracle_corporation: to allow Oracle to acquire Sun.
oracle_corporation: Oracle has competed for new database licenses on UNIX, GNU, and Windows operating systems primarily against IBM's Db2 and Microsoft SQL Server.
oracle_corporation: One cable revealed that the U.S.
oracle_corporation: In 2024, Catz said to Israeli business news outlet CTech, "For employees, it's clear: if you're not for America or Israel, don't work here".
oracle_corporation: As September 25, 2025, TikTok was bought by Silver Lake and Abu Dhabi's MGX.
oracle_corporation: Codd on relational database management systems (RDBMS) named "A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared Data Banks." He heard about the IBM System R database from an article in an IBM research journal provided by Oates.
oracle_corporation: If you think they have great technology then they do have a great marketing machine.
oracle_corporation: The Chairman of Oracle Corporation, Larry Ellison, defended his company's hiring of an East Coast detective agency, calling the snooping a "public service".
oracle_corporation: In January 2025, President Donald Trump announced Stargate, a joint venture by Oracle, OpenAI, SoftBank and investment firm MGX to invest $500 billion over four years in artificial intelligence infrastructure in the US.
oracle_corporation: This became a problem when the future sales subsequently failed to materialize.
oracle_corporation: And, our large customers wanted to consider us a strategic partner, rather than just a vendor of technology.
oracle_corporation: SAP recognized that Oracle had started to become a competitor in a market where SAP had the leadership, and saw an opportunity to lure in customers from those companies that Oracle Corporation had acquired.
oracle_corporation: Some saw this not only as an attempt to compete with Amazon but also with Google and Salesforce, which acquired Looker and Tableau Software, respectively.
oracle_corporation: In September 2025, Oracle announced it was promoting Clay Magouyrk, president of cloud infrastructure, and Mike Sicilia, president of industries, to become co-CEOs.
oracle_corporation: After the accord has been approved, Oracle can ask a federal appeals court to reinstate the earlier jury verdict.
oracle_corporation: SAP's CEO Henning Kagermann stated that "Even a single inappropriate download is unacceptable from my perspective.
oracle_corporation: Lane, who helped the company recover from what Ken Jacobs later described as a "near death experience", in which Oracle required an investment from a Japanese steel company to meet payroll.
oracle_corporation: This crisis came about because of Oracle's "up-front" marketing strategy, in which sales people urged potential customers to buy the largest possible amount of software all at once.
oracle_corporation: Oracle has continued to make updates to its generative AI service, which is built and supported on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure and large language models (LLM) from Cohere as of 2023, Meta's Llama as of 2024, and xAI's Grok 3 as of 2025.
oracle_corporation: Despite the SAP partnership with Microsoft, and the increasing integration of SAP applications with Microsoft products (such as Microsoft SQL Server, a competitor to Oracle Database), Oracle and SAP continue their cooperation.
oracle_corporation: Mark Hurd: former CEO (2014–2019), previously co-president (2010–2014).
oracle_corporation: The DoJ added its heft to an already existing whistleblower lawsuit filed by Paul Frascella, who was once senior director of contract services at Oracle.
oracle_corporation: It is located on the former site of Marine World/Africa USA, which moved from Redwood Shores to Vallejo in 1986.
oracle_corporation: The team won the America's Cup twice, in 2010 (as BMW Oracle Racing) and in 2013, despite being penalized for cheating.
oracle_corporation: In 2025, Accor onboarded it as its official PMS, moving away from Mews (software).
oracle_corporation: In September 2011, U.S.
oracle_corporation: TikTok's operations ===
On September 13, 2020, Bloomberg News reported that Oracle won a bidding war with other U.S.-based companies to take over social media company TikTok's operations in the United States following the company's pressure to forcibly be shut down by the Trump administration.
oracle_corporation: It gave us a whole stack, a credible stack.
oracle_corporation: In September 2024, Oracle announced new investments and the release of Oracle Clinical Digital Assistant, a generative AI system that automatically creates consultation documentation and proposes orders.
oracle_corporation: Oracle had announced that it would appeal both the decision and damages, but the decision stayed.
oracle_corporation: Oracle released its Autonomous Database in 2018, Oracle Database 23ai in 2024, and issued its newest release Oracle AI Database 26ai in 2025.
oracle_corporation: After Ashcroft's resignation from government, he founded a lobbying firm, The Ashcroft Group, which Oracle hired in 2005.
oracle_corporation: It's let me tell you how much better I am than the guy down the street to the point of taking out billboards.
oracle_corporation: The company was believed to be planning another mass layoff round within a month.
oracle_corporation: By 1996 Informix, after acquiring Illustra, became Oracle's most important rival.
oracle_corporation: Oracle will own 45% of the app in the US, and ByteDance 35% after delays with the ban for the 4th time.
oracle_corporation: The company's Ken Jacobs later said:
oracle_corporation: In June 2024, Oracle announced a $1 billion investment in Spain to enhance artificial intelligence and cloud computing.
oracle_corporation: Oracle and SAP (the latter through its recently acquired subsidiary TomorrowNow) competed in the third-party enterprise software maintenance and support market.
oracle_corporation: The company allows these services to be provisioned on demand over the Internet.
oracle_corporation: Conversely, another Oracle ad quoted Microsoft's Bill Gates, Sun's Scott McNealy, Hewlett-Packard's John A.
oracle_corporation: However, it claims that SAP personnel and SAP customers had no access to Oracle intellectual property via TomorrowNow.
oracle_corporation: The company hired so many from top universities that Humphries compared it to "Cargill buying crops".
oracle_corporation: Oracle called the lawsuit "an abuse of the judicial process" and said that had it known SAP's Léo Apotheker was about to be hired as HP's new CEO, any support for HP's Itanium servers would not have been implied.
oracle_corporation: On December 20, 2021, Oracle announced that it agreed to acquire Cerner Corporation (now Oracle Health and Oracle Life Sciences) for approximately US$28.3 billion, creating a dedicated Industry Business Unit within the company.
oracle_corporation: In 2023, it was a market leader among PMSs.
oracle_corporation: 16 on Fortune's list of the 25 Most Powerful People in Business.
oracle_corporation: Spun off a technology group within Oracle in 1992.
oracle_corporation: Business intelligence vendors can be categorized into the "big four" consolidated BI firms such as Oracle, who has entered BI market through a recent trend of acquisitions (including Hyperion Solutions), and the independent "pure play" vendors such as MicroStrategy, Actuate, and SAS.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Financials was ranked in the Top 20 Most Popular Accounting Software Infographic by Capterra in 2014, beating out SAP and a number of its other competitors.
oracle_corporation: Berg, chairman of Northside Services and former CEO of International Creative Management
Michael Boskin, Professor of Economics and Hoover Institution Senior Fellow at Stanford University
Bruce R.
oracle_corporation: The distinctive Oracle Parkway buildings, nicknamed the Emerald City, served as sets for the futuristic headquarters of the fictional company "NorthAm Robotics" in the Robin Williams film Bicentennial Man (1999).
oracle_corporation: At the time, it was the largest-ever U.S.
oracle_corporation: As of 2025 Ellison remains a top executive but no longer CEO.
oracle_corporation: In 2010, Oracle launched Fusion Applications to unify the features and technologies of acquisitions PeopleSoft, Siebel Systems, and JD Edwards, into a single suite.
oracle_corporation: SAP said it was disappointed by the verdict and might appeal.
oracle_corporation: Oracle has a large office complex located on the San Francisco Peninsula in the Redwood Shores area of Redwood City.
oracle_corporation: In April 2024, Oracle announced it was moving its world headquarters from Austin to a new complex in Nashville, Tennessee.
oracle_corporation: In 2025, The Intercept spoke with Oracle employees who supported Palestine, but were afraid to speak out in their workplace.
oracle_corporation: (According to Oracle executive Mike Humphries, Miner told him that the new company had the choice of the CIA database project or another offer to develop a compiler for the PDP-4, and the founders flipped a coin to decide.)
Miner served as a senior programmer, and Oates also worked in development.
oracle_corporation: Wrote the first business plan for the company.
oracle_corporation: IEEE Annals of the History of Computing.
oracle_corporation: On September 1, 2011, a federal judge overturned the judgment and offered a reduced amount or a new trial, calling Oracle's original award "grossly" excessive.
oracle_corporation: Also in 2025, the company announced additional investments in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands for US$5 billion and US$3 billion, respectively.
oracle_corporation: The acquisition of Cerner was completed on June 8, 2022, for US$28.3 billion in cash.
oracle_corporation: Also in December 2021, Oracle announced the acquisition of Federos, an artificial intelligence (AI) and automation tools company for network performance.
oracle_corporation: IBM's endorsement of SQL in Db2 in the early 1980s benefited Oracle and forced rivals like Ingres and Informix Corporation to adopt SQL to compete.
oracle_corporation: Stu Schuster of Sybase said "Larry taught us a lot about marketing".
oracle_corporation: In November 2005, a book detailing the war between Oracle and Informix was published, titled The Real Story of Informix Software and Phil White.
oracle_corporation: And within 12 months, Informix was basically on the floor.
oracle_corporation: A series of acquisitions by Oracle Corporation began, most notably with those of PeopleSoft, Siebel Systems, and Hyperion.
oracle_corporation: Oracle chose a new trial.
oracle_corporation: operations, with Oracle, MGX and private equity firm Silver Lake each owning a 15% stake in the venture, while ByteDance retained a 19.9% stake.
oracle_corporation: district court judge, "to save time and expense of [a] new trial".
oracle_corporation: It was such amazingly focused effort.
oracle_corporation: Selling them (and acquiring vendors such as JD Edwards and PeopleSoft, the latter being the second hostile takeover in the history of software) nonetheless allowed Oracle to compete with SAP; by the mid-2000s it was the world's largest enterprise software vendor.
oracle_corporation: In October 2006, the Golden State Warriors and the Oracle Corporation announced a 10-year agreement in which the Oakland Arena would become known as the Oracle Arena.
oracle_corporation: While other database companies' brochures emphasized technical features, Oracle advertisements showed an Oracle jet fighter shooting down Ashton-Tate and Borland biplanes; dBASE, IBM, and Db2 were among the many competitors Oracle marketing criticized by name.
oracle_corporation: He died in 2022.
oracle_corporation: The Sun acquisition was closely watched by free software users and some companies, due to the fear that Oracle might end Sun's traditional support of free projects.
oracle_corporation: Held later described his company's philosophy as "it's not good enough for Oracle to win.
oracle_corporation: The three founders decided that Ellison was the worst programmer so he became the salesman.
oracle_corporation: On November 23, 2010, a U.S.
oracle_corporation: Sixty-eight Oracle employees signed an open letter criticizing the company's ties to Israel.
oracle_corporation: HP argued Oracle's canceling support damaged HP's Itanium server brand.
oracle_corporation: In February 2023, the company announced it was going to invest $1.5 billion into the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, including opening a data center in the country's capital, Riyadh.
oracle_corporation: It gave a detailed chronology of the battle of Informix against Oracle, and how Informix Software's CEO Phil White landed in jail because of his obsession with overtaking Ellison.
oracle_corporation: In 2004, Oracle began to increase its interest in the enterprise-applications market (in 1989, Oracle had already released Oracle Financials).
oracle_corporation: Parrett, former CEO of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Naomi O.
oracle_corporation: They issued statements of solidarity, paid double salaries to Israeli employees, and donated to organizations connected to Israel's wartime response.
oracle_corporation: Oracle will store data of US TikTok users on its cloud computers, and it will be involved in the new TikTok spinoff's cybersecurity.
oracle_corporation: The sales people then booked the value of future license sales in the current quarter, thereby increasing their bonuses.
oracle_corporation: Bruce Scott: The first hired employee (after the co-founders; employee number 4) at Oracle (then Software Development Laboratories).
oracle_corporation: The CEO's compensation in 2017 was $108,295,023.
oracle_corporation: After negotiations failed, Google created its own programming platform, which was based on Java, and contained 37 copied Java packages as well as new packages developed by Google.
oracle_corporation: SAP would offer those customers special discounts on the licenses for its enterprise applications.
oracle_corporation: Oracle board member until 1993.
oracle_corporation: pushing the envelope on selling the future way ahead of the rest of us".
oracle_corporation: Larry Ellison, Bob Miner, and Ed Oates co-founded Oracle on June 16, 1977, in Santa Clara, California, as Software Development Laboratories (SDL).
oracle_corporation: Umang Gupta: former vice president and general manager (1981–1984).
oracle_corporation: And we could now sell at a higher point into the companies, into the board room.
oracle_corporation: Oracle has since made many enhancements to this product and development continues as of 2008.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Corporation maintains a number of product lines, such as:
oracle_corporation: The alliance claimed that Oracle Cloud and Microsoft Azure would be directly connected, allowing customers of each to store data on both cloud computing platforms and run software on either Oracle or Azure.
oracle_corporation: Additionally, Oracle Corporation acquired and developed the following additional database technologies:
oracle_corporation: The lawsuit was settled in July 2024 for $115 million.
oracle_corporation: In April 2024, Oracle announced plans to build its largest office hub, with 8,500 jobs, in Nashville, Tennessee.
oracle_corporation: However, two weeks after its introduction, David Litchfield, Alexander Kornbrust, Cesar Cerrudo and others demonstrated a suite of successful attacks against Oracle products.
oracle_corporation: By February 1983 the Rosen Electronics Letter said that Oracle was "the most comprehensive offering we've seen" among databases, with good marketing and a substantial installed base encouraging developers to write software for it.
oracle_corporation: The intense war between Informix CEO Phil White and Ellison made front-page news in Silicon Valley for three years.
oracle_corporation: S2CID 17907189.
oracle_corporation: In 1989, Oracle moved its world headquarters to the Redwood Shores neighborhood of Redwood City, California, though its campus was not completed until 1995.
oracle_corporation: Besides being headquartered near each other in the San Francisco Bay area, database technology experts attended the same universities and served on the same standards committees (with Jim Gray serving as neutral arbiter as companies tried to get competing proposals enacted).
oracle_corporation: Ed Oates: co-founder of the company.
oracle_corporation: Ellison hired ("bring in adults", Jerry Held said) new executives Jeff Henley and Raymond J.
oracle_corporation: In April 2025, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) issued a warning to Oracle customers to secure their environments.
oracle_corporation: From the 2022 Formula One season, Oracle signed a five-year deal worth $500 million to become title sponsors of Red Bull Racing, after already being a sponsor effective from the 2021 season.
oracle_corporation: In April 2025, Oracle incorporated HeatWave GenAI into its database.
oracle_corporation: Beginning as consultants with a background in large-scale memory after a project for Ampex, Ellison took inspiration from the 1970 paper written by Edgar F.
oracle_corporation: This resulted in an antitrust trial against Microsoft.
oracle_corporation: We had a thing, "Where in the world is Phil White," because Phil White was their best sales person.
oracle_corporation: It was settled in 2011.
oracle_corporation: Oracle's main competitors in the database market include IBM and Microsoft, and in enterprise applications, SAP.
oracle_corporation: In all instances, the company settled with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
oracle_corporation: No timeframe was given.
oracle_corporation: Retired from Oracle in 1996.
oracle_corporation: Oracle eventually had to restate its earnings twice, and also settled (out of court) class-action lawsuits arising from its having overstated its earnings.
oracle_corporation: On August 1, 2012, a California judge said in a tentative ruling that Oracle must continue porting its software at no cost until HP discontinues its sales of Itanium-based servers.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Corporation is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Austin, Texas.
oracle_corporation: We regret very much that this occurred." Additionally, SAP announced that it had "instituted changes" in TomorrowNow's operational oversight.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Cloud provides Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), Software as a Service (SaaS) and Data as a Service (DaaS).
oracle_corporation: Informix claimed that Oracle had hired away Informix engineers to disclose important trade secrets about an upcoming product.
oracle_corporation: Cerner is the largest international supplier of health information technology, such as electronic health records (EHR), revenue cycle solutions, and biomedical device integration platforms, and has its headquarters in Kansas City, Missouri, US.
oracle_corporation: doi:10.1109/MAHC.2012.56.
oracle_corporation: In January 2026, social media platform TikTok announced it finalized a deal to change ownership of its U.S.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Corporation's main competitors in the database arena remain IBM Db2 and Microsoft SQL Server, and to a lesser extent Sybase and Teradata, with free databases such as PostgreSQL and MySQL also having a significant share of the market.
oracle_corporation: Software developers "became accustomed to using Java's designations at the package, class, and method level".
oracle_corporation: And, in one year, we kind of turned the focus from Sybase to Informix, and basically they never knew what hit them.
oracle_corporation: Some new employees worked as receptionists or distributed coffee until more suitable positions became available.
oracle_corporation: In an effort to compete with Amazon Web Services and its products, Oracle announced in 2019 it was partnering with former rival Microsoft.
oracle_corporation: The litigants alleged that through such surveillance, the company violated the Federal Electronic Communications Privacy Act, California's state constitution, the California Invasion of Privacy Act, competition law, and California Common Law.
oracle_corporation: On July 3, 2007, SAP admitted that TomorrowNow employees had made "inappropriate downloads" from the Oracle support website.
oracle_corporation: The acquisition was delayed for several months by the European Commission because of concerns about MySQL, but was unconditionally approved in the end.
oracle_corporation: SDL changed its name to Relational Software, Inc (RSI) in 1979, then again to Oracle Systems Corporation in 1983, to align itself more closely with its flagship product Oracle Database.
oracle_corporation: Subsequently, the product was released several times, with the newest issue released as 12c in 2018.
oracle_corporation: Sales and marketing people were both fierce rivals and often moved between the companies, even as engineers socialized with each other.
oracle_corporation: The ads weren't to let me show you how my product helps you solve your business problem, Mr.
oracle_corporation: In September 2016, the two sides reached a settlement valued at over $100 million to the state, and a six-year agreement for Oracle to continue modernizing state software and IT.
oracle_corporation: Humphries described the cause ("building for years") as a combination of technical problems that benefited rivals, and the sales force using side letters and other improper tactics to meet the company's longstanding goal of doubling revenue each year.
oracle_corporation: Larry Ellison, executive chairman and CTO
Safra Catz, executive vice chair
Jeff Henley, vice chairman
Awo Ablo, President of Programs and Strategy
Jeffrey S.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Corporation's chief security officer Mary Ann Davidson said that, rather than representing a literal claim of Oracle's products' impregnability, she saw the campaign in the context of fourteen independent security evaluations that Oracle Corporation's database server had passed.
oracle_corporation: In March 2026, Oracle signed a voluntary "ratepayer protection pledge" where companies pledge to build or buy energy needed to power data centers at a different rate to regular consumers, allowing them to keep utility bills down substantially.
oracle_corporation: Oracle in the late 1980s began selling enterprise software running on the database, starting with financial software, then manufacturing.
oracle_corporation: It really surprises me when people say Oracle's a great marketing machine because by definition, if you think a company has great marketing, they don't.
oracle_corporation: In 2016, she was ranked tenth on Fortune's Most Powerful Women list.
oracle_corporation: Oracle's purchase of Cerner was part of an effort to introduce Oracle products into the healthcare market, particularly in the United States although Oracle plans to expand Cerner's global operations.
oracle_corporation: Some legacy Cerner servers experienced unauthorized access, but Oracle has not confirmed the scale of impact.
oracle_corporation: On March 22, 2007, Oracle sued SAP, accusing it of fraud and unfair competition.
oracle_corporation: Total remaining performance obligations surged to $130 billion, reflecting strong demand for AI infrastructure capacity.
oracle_corporation: Oracle was described as a "trusted tech partner" by TikTok.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Fusion Middleware is a family of middleware software products, including application server, system integration, business process management (BPM), user interaction, content management, identity management and business intelligence (BI) products.
oracle_corporation: SAP AG Oracle alleged that TomorrowNow, which provides discount support for legacy Oracle product lines, used the accounts of former Oracle customers to systematically download patches and support documents from Oracle's website and to appropriate them for SAP's use.
oracle_corporation: The company sells database software (particularly the Oracle Database), enterprise applications, and cloud infrastructure and hardware.
oracle_corporation: On August 3, 2012, SAP and Oracle agreed on a judgment for $306 million in damages, pending approval from the U.S.
oracle_corporation: Oracle's core application software is a suite of enterprise software products, including enterprise resource planning (ERP), human capital management (HCM), customer experience (CX) and supply chain management (SCM) software.
oracle_corporation: It's available across 236 countries and territories.
oracle_corporation: During the investigation, Oracle was accused of attempting to purchase trash from a janitor at the Association for Competitive Technology.
oracle_corporation: In January 2010, Oracle completed its acquisition of Sun Microsystems, valued at more than $7 billion, a move that transformed Oracle from solely a software company to a manufacturer of both software and hardware.
oracle_corporation: Young, and Apple Computer's John Sculley as agreeing with Ellison on Oracle's database breakthroughs.
oracle_corporation: However, the two companies never reached an agreement.
oracle_corporation: Oracle has previously used this portal for around four hundred million dollars a year in revenue.
oracle_corporation: Co-founded in Santa Clara, California, in 1977 by Bob Miner, Ed Oates, and current chairman of the board and chief technology officer Larry Ellison, Oracle is among the 20 largest companies in the world by market cap, and ranked 66th on the Forbes Global 2000 as of 2025.
oracle_corporation: So marketing has never been a focus.
oracle_corporation: The company has also been working to integrate generative AI into its other services.
oracle_corporation: It was such a concerted effort.
oracle_corporation: In the market for business intelligence software, many other software companies, both small and large, have successfully competed in quality with Oracle and SAP products.
oracle_corporation: The agreement ended after the 2018–2019 NBA season when the Warriors relocated to the Chase Center in San Francisco.
oracle_corporation: As of September 2021, he owned 42% of the company.
oracle_corporation: Oracle Corporation's GBUs include:
oracle_corporation: The campus also represented the headquarters of Cyberdyne Systems in the movie Terminator Genisys (2015).
oracle_corporation: The goal is to help Spanish businesses and the public sector with digital transformation and to meet European Union regulations.
oracle_corporation: Oracle was ranked No.
oracle_corporation: A year later, Oracle announced similar partnerships with Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud, making the Oracle database available in all four major hyperscaler providers.
oracle_corporation: From 2001 to 2021, Sean Tucker's stunt biplane was sponsored by Oracle and performed frequently at air shows around the US.
oracle_corporation: HP was awarded $3 billion in damages against Oracle in 2016.
oracle_corporation: This investment will create a new cloud region in Madrid in partnership with Telefónica.
oracle_corporation: Cover Oregon
Oracle Applications
Oracle Certification Program
Oracle Clinical
Oracle Database
Oracle Linux
Oracle User Group
oracle_corporation: Informix finally dropped its lawsuit against Oracle in 1997.
oracle_corporation: State Department Embassy cables were leaked to WikiLeaks.
oracle_corporation: In August 2014, Oracle Corporation sued Cover Oregon for breach of contract, and then later that month the state of Oregon sued Oracle Corporation, in a civil complaint for breach of contract, fraud, filing false claims and "racketeering".
oracle_corporation: In January 2019, the San Francisco Giants entered into a 20-year agreement to rename its stadium Oracle Park.
oracle_corporation: Safra Catz: executive vice chair (since September 2025), previously CEO (2014–2025), co-president (since 2004) and CFO.
oracle_corporation: Berkeley DB, which offers embedded database processing
Oracle Rdb, a relational database system running on OpenVMS platforms.
oracle_corporation: Seligman, Senior Partner at Ostriker von Simson
oracle_corporation: INSPEC Accession Number 13640647.
oracle_corporation: The same year, the company announced investments in Japan and Malaysia for US$8 billion and US$6.5 billion, respectively.
oracle_corporation: They replaced Safra Catz, who held the position for 11 years, and transitioned to a new role as executive vice chair.
oracle_corporation: While admitting liability, SAP estimated the damages at no more than $40 million, while Oracle claimed that they are at least $1.65 billion.
oracle_corporation: The lawsuit alleged that Oracle engaged in "deliberate and purposeful surveillance of the general population via their digital and online existence", specifically focusing on Oracle operating a surveillance machine that tracked and recorded personal data in real-time.
oracle_corporation: Marc Benioff: former protégé of Ellison and the youngest to be promoted to vice president at the time.
oracle_corporation: Since the acquisition, Oracle has discontinued OpenSolaris and StarOffice, and sued Google over the Java patents Oracle acquired from Sun.
oracle_corporation: Charles Phillips: former co-president and director (2003–2010); replaced by Mark Hurd.
oracle_corporation: This complex was home to Oracle world headquarters from 1989 to 2020.
oracle_corporation: Bibcode:2013IAHC...35b..10M.
oracle_corporation: For the second quarter of fiscal year 2026 (ending November 2025), Oracle reported total revenue of $14.1 billion, with cloud infrastructure (IaaS) revenue growing 68% year-over-year to $4.1 billion.
oracle_corporation: He died in 2019.
oracle_corporation: The Java software includes sets of pre-developed software code to allow programs and apps to accomplish common tasks in a consistent manner.
oracle_corporation: The Primavera products of Oracle's Construction & Engineering Global Business Unit (CEGBU) consist of project-management software.
oracle_corporation: In 2011, Oracle settled with the General Services Administration for $199.5 million in a lawsuit filed under the False Claims Act.
oracle_corporation: Oracle acquired Rdb in 1994 from Digital Equipment Corporation.
oracle_corporation: In Oracle Corporation v.
oracle_corporation: Scott served as the co-author and co-architect of the Oracle database up to Version 3.
oracle_corporation: Oracle has acquired the following technology companies:
oracle_corporation: Oracle claimed that its Oracle Cloud Infrastructure was not breached and that no customer data from it was exposed.
oracle_corporation: Led product design and development for Oracle Database (1977–1992).
oracle_corporation: 35 (2): 10–23.
oracle_corporation: In some cases these companies became the starting points for global business units (GBUs) targeting particular vertical markets.
oracle_corporation: Jacobs said, by contrast:
oracle_corporation: In 2023, Oracle and Microsoft expanded their partnership to deliver Oracle database services on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure running inside Microsoft Azure.
oracle_corporation: Schuster and Held recalled "a not very pleasant environment because it was so directly competitive".
oracle_corporation: The name also drew from the codename of a 1977 project for the Central Intelligence Agency, Oracle's first customer; the company received permission to use the code name for the new product.
oracle_corporation: The lawsuit argues that the government received deals inferior to those Oracle gave to its commercial clients.
oracle_corporation: So, it has, actually, had a big impact on the way our sales force could sell.
oracle_corporation: Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
oracle_corporation: "The Oracle Story: 1984–2001".
oracle_corporation: Larry's belief has fundamentally always been that marketing isn't critical; he's famous for saying, "If you're not building the product and you're not selling it, tell me what it is you do." Because those are the things that he felt were important.
oracle_corporation: In December 2021, Oracle announced the acquisition of Cerner, a health information technology company.
oracle_corporation: The deal closed in early July 2022 after receiving final approval from European regulators, making it Oracle's largest acquisition and one of the largest in corporate history.
oracle_corporation: By 1995 Oracle had 44% of the $2.4 billion relational database market; Sybase had 17% and Informix had 16%.
oracle_corporation: Some analysts have suggested the suit could form part of a strategy by Oracle Corporation to decrease competition with SAP in the market for third-party enterprise software maintenance and support.
