orchestra: Concert orchestra is an alternative term, as in the BBC Concert Orchestra and the RTÉ Concert Orchestra.
orchestra: 8, Mahler pushes the furthest boundaries of orchestral size, employing large forces.
orchestra: Most sections also have an assistant principal (or co-principal or associate principal), or in the case of the first violins, an assistant concertmaster, who often plays a tutti part in addition to replacing the principal in their absence.
orchestra: An orchestra ( ; OR-ki-strə) is a large instrumental ensemble typical of classical music or jazz, which combines instruments from different families.
orchestra: In the classical era, the orchestra became more standardized with a small to medium-sized string section and a core wind section consisting of pairs of oboes, flutes, bassoons and horns, sometimes supplemented by percussion and pairs of clarinets and trumpets.
orchestra: In the mid 20th century, several attempts were made in Germany and the United States to confine the instrumentation of the symphonic orchestra exclusively to groups of one instrument.
orchestra: In some cases, university or conservatory music students may also be members of community orchestras.
orchestra: The exceptions are his Symphony No.
orchestra: In Percy Grainger's The Warriors which includes three conductors: the primary conductor of the orchestra, a secondary conductor directing an off-stage brass ensemble, and a tertiary conductor directing percussion and harp.
orchestra: As time progressed, and as the Romantic period saw changes in accepted modification with composers such as Berlioz and Mahler; some composers used multiple harps and sound effect such as the wind machine.
orchestra: Other instruments such as the piano, accordion, and celesta may sometimes be grouped into a fifth section such as a keyboard section or may stand alone, as may the concert harp and electric and electronic instruments.
orchestra: They may also attend to organizational matters, such as scheduling rehearsals, planning a concert season, hearing auditions and selecting members, and promoting their ensemble in the media.
orchestra: Contract performers may be hired for individual concerts when the orchestra is doing an exceptionally large late-Romantic era orchestral work, or to substitute for a permanent member who is sick.
orchestra: While the oboe often provides the tuning note for the orchestra (due to a 300-year-old convention), there is generally no designated principal of the woodwind section (though in woodwind ensembles, the flute is often the presumptive leader).
orchestra: Gruppen was premiered in Cologne, in 1958, conducted by Stockhausen, Bruno Maderna and Pierre Boulez.
orchestra: A section string player plays in unison with the rest of the section, except in the case of divided (divisi) parts, where upper and lower parts in the music are often assigned to "outside" (nearer the audience) and "inside" seated players.
orchestra: These trends have brought about the phenomenon of polyconductor music, wherein separate sub-conductors conduct each group of musicians.
orchestra: These include the flugelhorn and cornet.
orchestra: Every instrumental group (or section) has a principal who is generally responsible for leading the group and playing orchestral solos.
orchestra: The term orchestra derives from the Greek ὀρχήστρα (orchestra), the name for the area in front of a stage in ancient Greek theatre reserved for the Greek chorus.
orchestra: In 2012, women made up 6% of the orchestra's membership.
orchestra: In some cases, school orchestras are string orchestras, consisting only of students playing string instruments, with students playing woodwinds, brass and percussion grouped together as a concert band.
orchestra: This brought about a revolution in orchestral composition and set the style for orchestral performance for the next eighty years.
orchestra: These were "at first undoubtedly intended to be played at the head of a programme".
orchestra: Usually, one principal conductor conducts the sub-conductors, thereby shaping the overall performance.
orchestra: The conductor typically stands on a raised podium with a large music stand for the full score, which contains the musical notation for all the instruments and voices.
orchestra: The first women members hired in professional orchestras have been harpists.
orchestra: Section percussionists play parts assigned to them by the principal percussionist.
orchestra: An article in The Strad states that all orchestral musicians, even those in the top orchestras, occasionally fake certain passages.
orchestra: Communication is typically non-verbal during a performance (this is strictly the case in art music, but in jazz big bands or large pop ensembles, there may be occasional spoken instructions, such as a "count in").
orchestra: The Vienna Philharmonic, for example, did not accept women to permanent membership until 1997, far later than comparable orchestras (the other orchestras ranked among the world's top five by Gramophone in 2008).
orchestra: In this configuration, the symphonic orchestra consisted entirely of free-reed chromatic accordions which were modified to recreate the full range of orchestral sounds and timbres during the performance of orthodox Western classical music.
orchestra: In the 20th and 21st century, orchestras found a new patron: governments.
orchestra: Composers like John Adams often employ Romantic-size orchestras, as in Adams' opera Nixon in China; Philip Glass and others may be more free, yet still identify size-boundaries.
orchestra: A chamber orchestra (sometimes a concert orchestra) is a smaller ensemble of not more than around fifty musicians.
orchestra: ISBN 978-0-684-15535-7.
orchestra: Tutti wind and brass players generally play a unique but non-solo part.
orchestra: 9, and William Walton's Belshazzar's Feast, and many other works as a member of the orchestral ensemble.
orchestra: One of the "great unmentionable [topics] of orchestral playing" is "faking", the process by which an orchestral musician gives the false "...
orchestra: The Orchestra: A history.
orchestra: Some modern orchestras also do without conductors, particularly smaller orchestras and those specializing in historically accurate (so-called "period") performances of baroque and earlier music.
orchestra: Some wealthy aristocrats had an orchestra in residence at their estate, to entertain them and their guests with performances.
orchestra: This way, the "sound masses" could be spatialized, as in an electroacoustic work.
orchestra: 1720–1800), the practice of using chordal instruments to play basso continuo was gradually phased out, and it disappeared completely by 1800.
orchestra: Piccolo, contrabassoon, and trombones add to the triumphal finale of his Symphony No.
orchestra: A lutenist or theorbo player could lead by lifting the instrument neck up and down to indicate the tempo of a piece, or to lead a ritard during a cadence or ending.
orchestra: While community orchestra members are mostly unpaid amateurs, in some orchestras, a small number of professionals may be hired to act as principal players and section leaders.
orchestra: The term "orchestra" can also be applied to a jazz ensemble, for example in the performance of big-band music.
orchestra: They choose the works to be performed and study their scores, to which they may make certain adjustments (e.g., regarding tempo, articulation, phrasing, repetitions of sections, and so on), work out their interpretation, and relay their vision to the performers.
orchestra: A professional musician who is hired to perform for a single concert is sometimes called a "sub".
orchestra: As well, as part of the early music movement, some 20th and 21st century orchestras have revived the Baroque practice of having no conductor on the podium for Baroque pieces, using the concertmaster or a chord-playing basso continuo performer (e.g., harpsichord or organ) to lead the group.
orchestra: are still predominantly male." A 2014 BBC article stated that the "...
orchestra: One of the challenges with using two conductors is that the second conductor may get out of synchronization with the main conductor, or may mis-convey (or misunderstand) the principal conductor's gestures, which can lead to the offstage instruments being out of time.
orchestra: These government subsidies make up part of orchestra revenue, along with ticket sales, charitable donations (if the orchestra is registered as a charity) and other fundraising activities.
orchestra: Wagner's works for the stage were scored with unprecedented scope and complexity: indeed, his score to Das Rheingold calls for six harps.
orchestra: The 20th century orchestra was far more flexible than its predecessors.
orchestra: The first is a Baroque orchestra (i.e., J.S.
orchestra: During the 20th century, the modern orchestra was generally standardized with the modern instrumentation listed below.
orchestra: These advances would lead Hector Berlioz to write a landmark book on instrumentation, which was the first systematic treatise on using instrumental sound as an expressive element of music.
orchestra: With the invention of successive technologies, including sound recording, radio broadcasting, television broadcasting and Internet-based streaming and downloading of concert videos, orchestras have been able to find new revenue sources.
orchestra: For several decades after his death, symphonic instrumentation was faithful to Beethoven's well-established model, with few exceptions.
orchestra: Community orchestras typically consist mainly of adult amateur musicians.
orchestra: School orchestras are typically led by a music teacher.
orchestra: A piccolo and a pair of trombones help deliver the effect of storm and sunshine in the Sixth, also known as the Pastoral Symphony.
orchestra: The reduced numbers in performance are usually confined to the string section, since the numbers here have traditionally been flexible (as multiple players typically play from the same part).
orchestra: In the Baroque music era (1600–1750), orchestras were often led by the concertmaster, or by a chord-playing musician performing the basso continuo parts on a harpsichord or pipe organ, a tradition that some 20th-century and 21st-century early music ensembles continue.
orchestra: One source of financial difficulties that received notice and criticism was high salaries for music directors of US orchestras, which led several high-profile conductors to take pay cuts in recent years.
orchestra: The Wagner tuba, a modified member of the horn family, appears in Richard Wagner's cycle Der Ring des Nibelungen and several other works by Strauss, Igor Stravinsky (as featured in The Rite of Spring), Béla Bartók, and others; it also has a notably prominent role in Anton Bruckner's Symphony No.
orchestra: The excerpts are typically the most technically challenging parts and solos from the orchestral literature.
orchestra: 7 in E Major.
orchestra: introduction of 'blind' auditions, where a prospective instrumentalist performs behind a screen so that the judging panel can exercise no gender or racial prejudice, has seen the gender balance of traditionally male-dominated symphony orchestras gradually shift."
orchestra: Conducting is the art of directing a musical performance, such as an orchestral or choral concert.
orchestra: A small number of symphonies also contain vocal parts (e.g., Beethoven's Ninth Symphony).
orchestra: In February 1996, the Vienna Philharmonic's principal flute, Dieter Flury, told Westdeutscher Rundfunk that accepting women would be "gambling with the emotional unity (emotionelle Geschlossenheit) that this organism currently has".
orchestra: Orchestras also play with instrumental soloists in concertos.
orchestra: In operas and ballets, the orchestra accompanies the singers and dancers, respectively, and plays overtures and interludes where the melodies played by the orchestra take centre stage.
orchestra: Orchestras also perform overtures, a term originally applied to the instrumental introduction to an opera.
orchestra: Many, however, find more conventional orchestral configuration to provide better possibilities for color and depth.
orchestra: The violins are divided into two groups, first violin and second violin, with the second violins playing in lower registers than the first violins, playing an accompaniment part, or harmonizing the melody played by the first violins.
orchestra: orchestras have reduced their overall personnel, as well as the number of players appearing in performances.
orchestra: Music administrators such as Michael Tilson Thomas and Esa-Pekka Salonen argued that new music, new means of presenting it, and a renewed relationship with the community could revitalize the symphony orchestra.
orchestra: In some cases, the principal of a string section may use a slightly different bowing than the concertmaster, to accommodate the requirements of playing their instrument (e.g., the double-bass section).
orchestra: Many orchestras in North America and Europe receive part of their funding from national, regional level governments (e.g., state governments in the U.S.) or city governments.
orchestra: These include the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment, the London Classical Players under the direction of Sir Roger Norrington and the Academy of Ancient Music under Christopher Hogwood, among others.
orchestra: In the late 20th century and early 21st century, some orchestras use a video camera pointed at the principal conductor and a closed-circuit TV set in front of the offstage performers, instead of using two conductors.
orchestra: To convey their ideas and interpretation, a conductor communicates with their musicians primarily through hand gestures, typically (though not invariably) with the aid of a baton, and may use other gestures or signals, such as eye contact with relevant performers.
orchestra: There were large differences in size, instrumentation and playing styles—and therefore in orchestral soundscapes and palettes — between the various European regions.
orchestra: Professional players who were interviewed were of a consensus that faking may be acceptable when a part is not written well for the instrument, but faking "just because you haven't practised" the music is not acceptable.
orchestra: Leadership might also be provided by one of the chord-playing instrumentalists playing the basso continuo part which was the core of most Baroque instrumental ensemble pieces.
orchestra: Typically, this would be a harpsichord player, a pipe organist, or a lutist or theorbo player.
orchestra: Examples include the Australian Chamber Orchestra, Amsterdam Sinfonietta & Candida Thompson and the New Century Chamber Orchestra.
orchestra: The third horn in the "Eroica" Symphony arrives to provide not only some harmonic flexibility but also the effect of "choral" brass in the Trio movement.
orchestra: The orchestra and its instruments, New York: The Symphony society of New York
Spitzer, John; Zaslaw, Neal (2004).
orchestra: Beethoven carefully calculated the expansion of this particular timbral "palette" in Symphonies 3, 5, 6, and 9 for an innovative effect.
orchestra: ISBN 978-0-19-816434-0.
orchestra: The most promising candidates from the first round of auditions are invited to return for a second or third round of auditions, which allows the conductor and the panel to compare the best candidates.
orchestra: Some contract musicians may be hired to replace permanent members for the period that the permanent member is on parental leave or disability leave.
orchestra: There is also a principal second violin, a principal viola, a principal cello, and a principal bass.
orchestra: The terms symphony orchestra and philharmonic orchestra may be used to distinguish different ensembles from the same locality, such as the London Symphony Orchestra and the London Philharmonic Orchestra.
orchestra: Few orchestras could fill auditoriums, and the time-honored season-subscription system became increasingly anachronistic, as more and more listeners would buy tickets on an ad-hoc basis for individual events.
orchestra: In the 1850s the concert overture began to be supplanted by the symphonic poem.
orchestra: School orchestras
These orchestras consist of students from elementary or secondary school.
orchestra: With this history in mind, the orchestra can be analysed in five eras: the Baroque era, the Classical era, early/mid-Romantic music era, late-Romantic era and combined Modern/Postmodern eras.
orchestra: In 1922, the idea of a conductor-less orchestra was revived in post-revolutionary Soviet Union.
orchestra: To ensure that the offstage instrumentalist(s) play in time, sometimes a sub-conductor will be stationed offstage with a clear view of the principal conductor.
orchestra: Youth orchestras
These orchestras consist of teens and young adults drawn from an entire city or region.
orchestra: It is not uncommon for contemporary composers to use unconventional instruments, including various synthesizers, to achieve desired effects.
orchestra: Beethoven's instrumentation almost always included paired flutes, oboes, clarinets, bassoons, horns and trumpets.
orchestra: Orchestras are usually led by a conductor who directs the performance with movements of the hands and arms, often made easier for the musicians to see by using a short wooden rod known as a conductor's baton.
orchestra: Cornets appear in Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's ballet Swan Lake, Claude Debussy's La Mer, and several orchestral works by Hector Berlioz.
orchestra: A conductor's directions will almost invariably be supplemented or reinforced by verbal instructions or suggestions to their musicians in rehearsal prior to a performance.
orchestra: The primary duties of the conductor are to set the tempo, ensure correct entries by various members of the ensemble, and "shape" the phrasing where appropriate.
orchestra: However, in rehearsals, frequent interruptions allow the conductor to give verbal directions as to how the music should be played or sung.
orchestra: A chamber orchestra is usually a smaller ensemble; a major chamber orchestra might employ as many as fifty musicians, but some are much smaller.
orchestra: Orchestras also play during operas, ballets, some musical theatre works and some choral works (both sacred works such as Masses and secular works).
orchestra: The conductor also prepares the orchestra by leading rehearsals before the public concert, in which the conductor provides instructions to the musicians on their interpretation of the music being performed.
orchestra: In some cases, university orchestras are open to all students from a university, from all programs.
orchestra: Orchestras play a wide range of repertoire, including symphonies, opera and ballet overtures, concertos for solo instruments, and pit ensembles for operas, ballets, and some types of musical theatre (e.g., Gilbert and Sullivan operettas).
orchestra: The works of Gustav Mahler were particularly innovative; in his later symphonies, such as the mammoth Symphony No.
orchestra: The concertmaster leads the pre-concert tuning and handles musical aspects of orchestra management, such as determining the bowings for the violins or the entire string section.
orchestra: VPO president Clemens Hellsberg said the VPO now uses completely screened blind auditions.
orchestra: One reason that musicians fake is because there are not enough rehearsals.
orchestra: In the Baroque music era (1600–1750), most orchestras were led by one of the musicians, typically the principal first violin, called the concertmaster.
orchestra: Thus, Wagner envisioned an ever-more-demanding role for the conductor of the theatre orchestra, as he elaborated in his influential work On Conducting.
orchestra: It has been performed in 1996 by Simon Rattle, John Carewe and Daniel Harding.
orchestra: The leader of the first violin section – commonly called the concertmaster – also plays an important role in leading the musicians.
orchestra: The typical orchestra grew in size throughout the 18th and 19th centuries, reaching a peak with the large orchestras of as many as 120 players called for in the works of Richard Wagner and later Gustav Mahler.
orchestra: Finally, the drastic drop in revenues from recording, related to changes in the recording industry itself, began a period of change that has yet to reach its conclusion.
orchestra: The Baroque orchestra ranged from smaller orchestras (or ensembles) with one player per part, to larger-scale orchestras with many players per part.
orchestra: Examples of the smaller variety were Bach's orchestras, for example in Koethen, where he had access to an ensemble of up to 18 players.
orchestra: The typical symphony orchestra consists of four groups of related musical instruments called the woodwinds, brass, percussion, and strings.
orchestra: Others have returned to the tradition of a principal player, usually a violinist, being the artistic director and running rehearsal and leading concerts.
orchestra: Examples include the ending of "Neptune" from Gustav Holst's The Planets.
orchestra: The conductor unifies the orchestra, sets the tempo, and shapes the sound of the ensemble.
orchestra: A keyboard player could lead the ensemble with their head, or by taking one of the hands off the keyboard to lead a more difficult tempo change.
orchestra: Instead, each principal confers with the others as equals in the case of musical differences of opinion.
orchestra: The most sought-after positions are permanent, tenured positions in the orchestra.
orchestra: Symphonies are notated in a musical score, which contains all the instrument parts.
orchestra: The Birth of the Orchestra: History of an institution, 1650–1815.
orchestra: Principals of a string section will also lead entrances for their section, typically by lifting the bow before the entrance, to ensure the section plays together.
orchestra: The conductor uses the score to study the symphony before rehearsals and decide on their interpretation (e.g., tempos, articulation, phrasing, etc.), and to follow the music during rehearsals and concerts, while leading the ensemble.
orchestra: The orchestra survived for ten years before Stalin's cultural politics disbanded it by taking away its funding.
orchestra: For performances of some modern compositions, electronic instruments and guitars may also be included.
orchestra: University and conservatory orchestras are led by a conductor who is typically a professor or instructor at the university or conservatory.
orchestra: The orchestra, depending on the size, contains almost all of the standard instruments in each group.
orchestra: Performers may be asked to sight read orchestral music.
orchestra: While government funding is less central to American than European orchestras, cuts in such funding are still significant for American ensembles.
orchestra: 4, which each specify a single flute.
orchestra: In modern times, the musicians are usually directed by a conductor, although early orchestras did not have one, giving this role to the concertmaster or the harpsichordist playing the continuo.
orchestra: During the early Romantic era, composers such as Beethoven and Mendelssohn began to use the term to refer to independent, self-existing instrumental, programmatic works that presaged genres such as the symphonic poem, a form devised by Franz Liszt in several works that began as dramatic overtures.
orchestra: The principal first violin is called the concertmaster (or orchestra "leader" in the U.K.) and is not only considered the leader of the string section, but the second-in-command of the entire orchestra, behind only the conductor.
orchestra: The Festival of Orchestras in Orlando, Florida, ceased operations at the end of March 2011.
orchestra: University or conservatory orchestras
These orchestras consist of students from a university or music conservatory.
orchestra: The euphonium is featured in a few late Romantic and 20th century works, usually playing parts marked "tenor tuba", including Gustav Holst's The Planets, and Richard Strauss's Ein Heldenleben.
orchestra: During the Classical music period (c.
orchestra: Orchestras also hire musicians on contracts, ranging in length from a single concert to a full season or more.
orchestra: Orchestras have become synonymous with the symphony, an extended musical composition in Western classical music that typically contains multiple movements which provide contrasting keys and tempos.
orchestra: In April 1996, the orchestra's press secretary wrote that "compensating for the expected leaves of absence" of maternity leave would be a problem.
orchestra: Keyboard instruments such as the piano, harpsichord, pipe organ, free-bass accordion and celesta may sometimes appear in a fifth keyboard section or may stand alone as soloist instruments.
orchestra: The concertmaster would lead the tempo of pieces by lifting their bow in a rhythmic manner.
orchestra: A full-size Western orchestra may sometimes be called a symphony orchestra or philharmonic orchestra (from Greek phil-, "loving", and "harmony").
orchestra: Orchestras are also used in the symphonic metal genre.
orchestra: "Orchestra" .
orchestra: Orchestral musicians play from parts containing just the notated music for their instrument.
orchestra: Where a solo part is called for in a string section, the section leader invariably plays that part.
orchestra: Orchestral auditions are typically held in front of a panel that includes the conductor, the concertmaster, the principal player of the section for which the auditionee is applying, and possibly other principal players.
orchestra: impression of playing every note as written", typically for a very challenging passage that is very high or very fast, while not actually playing the notes that are in the printed music part.
orchestra: The section leader (or principal) of a string section is also responsible for determining the bowings, often based on the bowings set out by the concertmaster.
orchestra: As such, its members felt that there was no need to be led by the dictatorial baton of a conductor; instead they were led by a committee, which determined tempos and playing styles.
orchestra: There are typically four main sections of instruments:
orchestra: Along with a decrease in funding, some U.S.
orchestra: Some older conductors and composers could remember a time when simply "getting through" the music as well as possible was the standard.
orchestra: The size and cost of a symphony orchestra, compared to the size of the base of supporters, became an issue that struck at the core of the institution.
orchestra: Singleton, Esther (1917).
orchestra: In the history of the orchestra, its instrumentation has been expanded over time, often agreed to have been standardized by the classical period and Ludwig van Beethoven's influence on the classical model.
orchestra: Combined with the wider audience made possible by recording, this led to a renewed focus on particular star conductors and on a high standard of orchestral execution.
orchestra: The last major orchestra to appoint a woman to a permanent position was the Berlin Philharmonic.
orchestra: In some works which combined choirs and instrumental ensembles, two leaders were sometimes used: A concertmaster to lead the instrumentalists and a chord-playing performer to lead the singers.
orchestra: In the 20th and 21st century, new repertory demands expanded the instrumentation of the orchestra, resulting in a flexible use of the classical-model instruments and newly developed electric and electronic instruments in various combinations.
orchestra: Cambridge University Press.
orchestra: The symphony orchestra Persimfans was formed without a conductor, because the founders believed that the ensemble should be modeled on the ideal Marxist state, in which all people are equal.
orchestra: One example in the late-century orchestral music is Karlheinz Stockhausen's Gruppen, for three orchestras, which are placed around the audience.
orchestra: Unless these instruments are played by members "doubling" on another instrument (for example, a trombone player changing to euphonium or a bassoon player switching to contrabassoon for a certain passage), orchestras typically hire freelance musicians to augment their regular ensemble.
orchestra: The age range in youth orchestras varies between different ensembles.
orchestra: Conducting while playing a piano or synthesizer may also be done with musical theatre pit orchestras.
orchestra: Wagner's theories re-examined the importance of tempo, dynamics, bowing of string instruments and the role of principals in the orchestra.
orchestra: The principal trombone is considered the leader of the low brass section, while the principal trumpet is generally considered the leader of the entire brass section.
orchestra: In Beethoven's and Felix Mendelssohn's time, the orchestra was composed of a fairly standard core of instruments, which was very rarely modified by composers.
orchestra: There are a range of different employment arrangements.
orchestra: With the recording era beginning, the standards of performance were pushed to a new level, because a recorded symphony could be listened to closely and even minor errors in intonation or ensemble, which might not be noticeable in a live performance, could be heard by critics.
orchestra: In some cases, youth orchestras may consist of teens or young adults from an entire country (e.g., Canada's National Youth Orchestra).
orchestra: Glass in particular has recently turned to conventional orchestras in works like the Concerto for Cello and Orchestra and the Violin Concerto No.
orchestra: Conductors act as guides to the orchestras or choirs they conduct.
orchestra: As recording technologies improved over the 20th and 21st centuries, eventually small errors in a recording could be "fixed" by audio editing or overdubbing.
orchestra: The principal conductor leads the large orchestra, and the sub-conductor relays the principal conductor's tempo and gestures to the offstage musician (or musicians).
orchestra: A symphony or philharmonic orchestra will usually have over eighty musicians on its roster, in some cases over a hundred, but the actual number of musicians employed in a particular performance may vary according to the work being played and the size of the venue.
orchestra: By the late Romantic era, orchestras could support the most enormous forms of symphonic expression, with huge string and brass sections and an expanded range of percussion instruments.
orchestra: They may be students from a music class or program or they may be drawn from the entire school body.
orchestra: Saxophones and classical guitars, for example, appear in some 19th- through 21st-century scores.
orchestra: During the Classical era, as composers increasingly sought out financial support from the general public, orchestra concerts were increasingly held in public concert halls, where music lovers could buy tickets to hear the orchestra.
orchestra: In 1997, the Vienna Philharmonic was "facing protests during a [US] tour" by the National Organization for Women and the International Alliance for Women in Music.
orchestra: Since the mid-18th century, most conductors have not played an instrument when conducting, although in earlier periods of classical music history, leading an ensemble while playing an instrument was common.
orchestra: Amateur orchestras include youth orchestras made up of students from an elementary school, a high school, or a university, and community orchestras; typically they are made up of amateur musicians from a particular city or region.
orchestra: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
orchestra: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
orchestra: 4, Violin Concerto, and Piano Concerto No.
orchestra: The final stage of the audition process in some orchestras is a test week, in which the performer plays with the orchestra for a week or two, which allows the conductor and principal players to see if the individual can function well in an actual rehearsal and performance setting.
orchestra: Among the instrument groups and within each group of instruments, there is a generally accepted hierarchy.
orchestra: Aristocratic patronage of orchestras continued during the Classical era, but this went on alongside public concerts.
orchestra: Community orchestras
These orchestras consist of amateur performers drawn from an entire city or region.
orchestra: Community orchestras range in level from beginner-level orchestras which rehearse music without doing formal performances in front of an audience to intermediate-level ensembles to advanced amateur groups which play standard professional orchestra repertoire.
orchestra: The most frequently performed repertoire for a symphony orchestra is Western classical music or opera.
orchestra: Another factor is the extreme challenges in 20th century and 21st century contemporary pieces; some professionals said "faking" was "necessary in anything from ten to almost ninety per cent of some modern works".
orchestra: Orchestras, choirs, concert bands and other sizable musical ensembles such as big bands are usually led by conductors.
orchestra: During concertos, the orchestra plays an accompaniment role to the soloist (e.g., a solo violinist or pianist) and, at times, introduces musical themes or interludes while the soloist is not playing.
orchestra: However, orchestras are used sometimes in popular music (e.g., to accompany a rock or pop band in a concert), extensively in film music, and increasingly often in television and video game music.
orchestra: Oxford University Press.
orchestra: Performers typically play one or more solo pieces of the auditionee's choice, such as a movement of a concerto, a solo Bach movement, and a variety of excerpts from the orchestral literature that are advertised in the audition poster (so the auditionees can prepare).
orchestra: In Baroque music from the 1600s to the 1750s, the group would typically be led by the harpsichordist or first violinist (see concertmaster), an approach that in modern times has been revived by several music directors for music from this period.
orchestra: The concertmaster usually sits to the conductor's left, closest to the audience.
orchestra: The number of musicians employed in a given performance may vary from seventy to over one hundred, depending on the work being played and the venue size.
orchestra: Examples of large-scale Baroque orchestras would include Corelli's orchestra in Rome which ranged between 35 and 80 players for day-to-day performances, being enlarged to 150 players for special occasions.
