organic_chemistry: Parent structures include unsubstituted hydrocarbons, heterocycles, and monofunctionalized derivatives thereof.
organic_chemistry: The C60 molecule was named buckminsterfullerene (or, more simply, the buckyball) after the American architect R.
organic_chemistry: Nu−  +  C−X   →  C−Nu + X−
where X is some functional group and Nu is a nucleophile.
organic_chemistry: High-resolution mass spectrometry can usually identify the exact formula of a compound and is used in place of elemental analysis.
organic_chemistry: The most stable rings contain five or six carbon atoms, but large rings (macrocycles) and smaller rings are common.
organic_chemistry: For "conventional" cyclic compounds, aromaticity is conferred by the presence of 4n + 2 delocalized pi electrons, where n is an integer.
organic_chemistry: Each reaction has a stepwise reaction mechanism that explains how it happens in sequence—although the detailed description of steps is not always clear from a list of reactants alone.
organic_chemistry: Organic compounds are classified according to functional groups, e.g., alcohols, carboxylic acids, amines, etc.
organic_chemistry: di-olefins (dienes) or poly-olefins.
organic_chemistry: Some organic compounds, especially symmetrical ones, sublime.
organic_chemistry: These factors can determine the relative stability of short-lived reactive intermediates, which usually directly determine the path of the reaction.
organic_chemistry: Biomolecular chemistry is a major category within organic chemistry which is frequently studied by biochemists.
organic_chemistry: A well-known example of a sublimable organic compound is para-dichlorobenzene, the odiferous constituent of modern mothballs.
organic_chemistry: The stepwise course of any given reaction mechanism can be represented using arrow pushing techniques in which curved arrows are used to track the movement of electrons as starting materials transition through intermediates to final products.
organic_chemistry: It is considered a very challenging course but has also been made accessible to students.
organic_chemistry: Functional groups make the molecule more acidic or basic due to their electronic influence on surrounding parts of the molecule.
organic_chemistry: Nonsystematic names do not indicate the structure of the compound.
organic_chemistry: Traditional spectroscopic methods such as infrared spectroscopy, optical rotation, and UV/VIS spectroscopy provide relatively nonspecific structural information but remain in use for specific applications.
organic_chemistry: Although the history of biochemistry might be taken to span some four centuries, fundamental understanding of the field only began to develop in the late 19th century and the actual term biochemistry was coined around the start of 20th century.
organic_chemistry: Systematic nomenclature starts with the name for a parent structure within the molecule of interest.
organic_chemistry: Organic chemistry is a subdiscipline within chemistry involving the scientific study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic compounds and organic materials (i.e.
organic_chemistry: This led to the creation of the Geneva rules in 1892.
organic_chemistry: The characteristics of the cyclic hydrocarbons are again altered if heteroatoms are present, which can exist as either substituents attached externally to the ring (exocyclic) or as a member of the ring itself (endocyclic).
organic_chemistry: He separated the acids that, in combination with the alkali, produced the soap.
organic_chemistry: Since the start of the 20th century, complexity of total syntheses has been increased to include molecules of high complexity such as lysergic acid and vitamin B12.
organic_chemistry: Designing practically useful syntheses always requires conducting the actual synthesis in the laboratory.
organic_chemistry: Around 1816 Michel Chevreul started a study of soaps made from various fats and alkalis.
organic_chemistry: Traditional methods of separation include distillation, crystallization, evaporation, magnetic separation and solvent extraction.
organic_chemistry: One important property of carbon is that it readily forms chains, or networks, that are linked by carbon-carbon (carbon-to-carbon) bonds.
organic_chemistry: The multiple-step synthesis of complex organic compounds is called total synthesis.
organic_chemistry: Crystallography can be useful for determining molecular geometry when a single crystal of the material is available.
organic_chemistry: Buckminster Fuller, whose geodesic dome is constructed on the same structural principles.
organic_chemistry: Organic compounds are usually not very stable at temperatures above 300 °C, although some exceptions exist.
organic_chemistry: As the pKa (aka basicity) of the molecular addition/functional group increases, there is a corresponding dipole, when measured, increases in strength.
organic_chemistry: Biologists usually classify the above-mentioned biomolecules into four main groups, i.e., proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids.
organic_chemistry: The melting and boiling points correlate with the polarity of the molecules and their molecular weight.
organic_chemistry: Some are long-chain biopolymers, and these include peptides, DNA, RNA and the polysaccharides such as starches in animals and celluloses in plants.
organic_chemistry: Quantitative information includes a melting point, boiling point, solubility, and index of refraction.
organic_chemistry: Early examples of organic reactions and applications were often found because of a combination of luck and preparation for unexpected observations.
organic_chemistry: Systematic nomenclature is stipulated by specifications from IUPAC (International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry).
organic_chemistry: According to the concept of vitalism (vital force theory), organic matter was endowed with a "vital force".
organic_chemistry: Important publications in organic chemistry
List of organic reactions
Molecular modelling
organic_chemistry: The scientific practice of creating novel synthetic routes for complex molecules is called total synthesis.
organic_chemistry: The source compound is called a monomer.
organic_chemistry: In contrast, while inorganic materials generally can be melted, many do not boil, and instead tend to degrade.
organic_chemistry: The heteroatom of heterocyclic molecules is generally oxygen, sulfur, or nitrogen, with the latter being particularly common in biochemical systems.
organic_chemistry: Two main groups of polymers exist: synthetic polymers and biopolymers.
organic_chemistry: Complex compounds can have tens of reaction steps that sequentially build the desired molecule.
organic_chemistry: By 1910 Paul Ehrlich and his laboratory group began developing arsenic-based arsphenamine (Salvarsan) as the first effective medicinal treatment of syphilis, and thereby initiated the medical practice of chemotherapy.
organic_chemistry: Since these were all individual compounds, he demonstrated that it was possible to make a chemical change in various fats (which traditionally come from organic sources), producing new compounds, without "vital force".
organic_chemistry: The bonding patterns of carbon, with its valence of four—formal single, double, and triple bonds, plus structures with delocalized electrons—make the array of organic compounds structurally diverse, and their range of applications enormous.
organic_chemistry: In the case of the latter, the ring is termed a heterocycle.
organic_chemistry: alkanes (paraffins): aliphatic hydrocarbons without any double or triple bonds, i.e.
organic_chemistry: In practice, small molecules have a molar mass less than approximately 1000 g/mol.
organic_chemistry: For example, cholesterol-related compounds have opened ways to synthesize complex human hormones and their modified derivatives.
organic_chemistry: Saturated cyclic compounds contain single bonds only, whereas aromatic rings have an alternating (or conjugated) double bond.
organic_chemistry: thermo-mechanical and electro-mechanical such as piezoelectricity, electrical conductivity (see conductive polymers and organic semiconductors), and electro-optical (e.g.
organic_chemistry: Synthetic polymers are artificially manufactured, and are commonly referred to as industrial polymers.
organic_chemistry: Thus, IUPAC recommendations are more closely followed for simple compounds, but not complex molecules.
organic_chemistry: just C-C, C-H single bonds
alkenes (olefins): aliphatic hydrocarbons that contain one or more double bonds, i.e.
organic_chemistry: Organometallic chemistry is the study of compounds containing carbon–metal bonds.
organic_chemistry: Besides, animal biochemistry contains many small molecule intermediates which assist in energy production through the Krebs cycle, and produces isoprene, the most common hydrocarbon in animals.
organic_chemistry: The rest of the group is classified according to the functional groups present.
organic_chemistry: Functional groups can have a decisive influence on the chemical and physical properties of organic compounds.
organic_chemistry: In 1828 Friedrich Wöhler produced the organic chemical urea (carbamide), a constituent of urine, from inorganic starting materials (the salts potassium cyanate and ammonium sulfate), in what is now called the Wöhler synthesis.
organic_chemistry: The majority of chemical compounds occurring in biological organisms are carbon compounds, so the association between organic chemistry and biochemistry is so close that biochemistry might be regarded as in essence a branch of organic chemistry.
organic_chemistry: Thus, the informally named lysergic acid diethylamide is systematically named
(6aR,9R)-N,N-diethyl-7-methyl-4,6,6a,7,8,9-hexahydroindolo-[4,3-fg] quinoline-9-carboxamide.
organic_chemistry: This parent name is then modified by prefixes, suffixes, and numbers to unambiguously convey the structure.
organic_chemistry: Smalley and Robert F.
organic_chemistry: A functional group is a molecular module, and the reactivity of that functional group is assumed, within limits, to be the same in a variety of molecules.
organic_chemistry: Organic compounds were traditionally characterized by a variety of chemical tests, called "wet methods", but such tests have been largely displaced by spectroscopic or other computer-intensive methods of analysis.
organic_chemistry: Any group with a net acidic pKa that gets within range, such as an acyl or carbonyl group is fair game.
organic_chemistry: The first fullerene was discovered in 1985 by Sir Harold W.
organic_chemistry: Particular instability (antiaromaticity) is conferred by the presence of 4n conjugated pi electrons.
organic_chemistry: Curl Jr., of the United States.
organic_chemistry: Both researchers suggested that tetravalent carbon atoms could link to each other to form a carbon lattice, and that the detailed patterns of atomic bonding could be discerned by skillful interpretations of appropriate chemical reactions.
organic_chemistry: In this system, the endpoints and intersections of each line represent one carbon, and hydrogen atoms can either be notated explicitly or assumed to be present as implied by tetravalent carbon.
organic_chemistry: More basic/nucleophilic functional groups desire to attack an electrophilic functional group with a lower pKa on another molecule (intermolecular) or within the same molecule (intramolecular).
organic_chemistry: The mechanism for certain organic reactions remain subjects of ongoing debate and have not been fully elucidated.
organic_chemistry: Organic synthesis of a novel compound is a problem-solving task, where a synthesis is designed for a target molecule by selecting optimal reactions from optimal starting materials.
organic_chemistry: non-linear optics) properties.
organic_chemistry: Both saturated (alicyclic) compounds and unsaturated compounds exist as cyclic derivatives.
organic_chemistry: Many complex multi-functional group molecules are important in living organisms.
organic_chemistry: Corey, which starts with the target molecule and splices it to pieces according to known reactions.
organic_chemistry: Kroto of the United Kingdom and by Richard E.
organic_chemistry: Two popular formats are SMILES and InChI.
organic_chemistry: A crucial breakthrough for organic chemistry was the concept of chemical structure, developed independently in 1858 by both Friedrich August Kekulé and Archibald Scott Couper.
organic_chemistry: Dipole distance (measured in Angstroms) and steric hindrance towards the functional group have an intermolecular and intramolecular effect on the surrounding environment and pH level.
organic_chemistry: Cycloalkanes do not contain multiple bonds, whereas the cycloalkenes and the cycloalkynes do.
organic_chemistry: Others are sometimes put into major groups within organic chemistry and discussed under titles such as organosulfur chemistry, organometallic chemistry, organophosphorus chemistry and organosilicon chemistry.
organic_chemistry: Otherwise, organic compounds tend to dissolve in organic solvents.
organic_chemistry: In earlier times, the melting point (m.p.) and boiling point (b.p.) provided crucial information on the purity and identity of organic compounds.
organic_chemistry: Most functional groups feature heteroatoms (atoms other than C and H).
organic_chemistry: The study of organic reactions includes the chemical synthesis of natural products, drugs, and polymers, and study of individual organic molecules in the laboratory and via theoretical (in silico) study.
organic_chemistry: The discovery of petroleum and the development of the petrochemical industry spurred the development of organic chemistry.
organic_chemistry: Before the 18th century, chemists generally believed that compounds obtained from living organisms were endowed with a vital force that distinguished them from inorganic compounds.
organic_chemistry: Different functional groups have different pKa values and bond strengths (single, double, triple) leading to increased electrophilicity with lower pKa and increased nucleophile strength with higher pKa.
organic_chemistry: alkynes (acetylenes): aliphatic hydrocarbons which have one or more triple bonds.
organic_chemistry: In pharmacology, an important group of organic compounds is small molecules, also referred to as "small organic compounds".
organic_chemistry: The production of indigo from plant sources dropped from 19,000 tons in 1897 to 1,000 tons by 1914 thanks to the synthetic methods developed by Adolf von Baeyer.
organic_chemistry: Petroleum and its derivatives are considered organic molecules, which is consistent with the fact that this oil comes from the fossilization of living beings, i.e., biomolecules.
organic_chemistry: During the first half of the nineteenth century, some of the first systematic studies of organic compounds were reported.
organic_chemistry: Such compounds are termed spiro and are important in several natural products.
organic_chemistry: Refractive index and density can also be important for substance identification.
organic_chemistry: Amines are very basic, and are great nucleophiles/attackers.
organic_chemistry: Organic reactions are chemical reactions involving organic compounds.
organic_chemistry: The line-angle formula is simple and unambiguous.
organic_chemistry: Exceptions include organic compounds that contain ionizable groups as well as low molecular weight alcohols, amines, and carboxylic acids where hydrogen bonding occurs.
organic_chemistry: His laboratory made decisive contributions to developing antiserum for diphtheria and standardizing therapeutic serums.
organic_chemistry: The basic reaction types are: addition reactions, elimination reactions, substitution reactions, pericyclic reactions, rearrangement reactions and redox reactions.
organic_chemistry: For example, a carbonyl compound can be used as a nucleophile by converting it into an enolate, or as an electrophile; the combination of the two is called the aldol reaction.
organic_chemistry: This means that every carbon atom in the ring is sp2 hybridized, allowing for added stability.
organic_chemistry: To use the systematic naming, one must know the structures and names of the parent structures.
organic_chemistry: Grignard described the situation as "chaos le plus complet" (complete chaos) due to the lack of convention, it was possible to have multiple names for the same compound.
organic_chemistry: A "synthetic tree" can be constructed because each compound and also each precursor has multiple syntheses.
organic_chemistry: For historical reasons, such properties are mainly the subjects of the areas of polymer science and materials science.
organic_chemistry: The purine nucleoside bases are notable polycyclic aromatic heterocycles.
organic_chemistry: His discovery, made widely known through its financial success, greatly increased interest in organic chemistry.
organic_chemistry: The event is now generally accepted as indeed disproving the doctrine of vitalism.
organic_chemistry: The general theory of these reactions involves careful analysis of such properties as the electron affinity of key atoms, bond strengths and steric hindrance.
organic_chemistry: After Wöhler, Justus von Liebig worked on the organization of organic chemistry, being considered one of its principal founders.
organic_chemistry: matter in its various forms that contain carbon atoms).
organic_chemistry: They form the basis of, or are constituents of, many commercial products including pharmaceuticals; petrochemicals and agrichemicals, and products made from them including lubricants, solvents; plastics; fuels and explosives.
organic_chemistry: Although Wöhler himself was cautious about claiming he had disproved vitalism, this was the first time a substance thought to be organic was synthesized in the laboratory without biological (organic) starting materials.
organic_chemistry: In former times, mass spectrometry was restricted to neutral molecules exhibiting some volatility, but advanced ionization techniques allow one to obtain the "mass spec" of virtually any organic compound.
organic_chemistry: The other main classes are amino acids (monomer building blocks of peptides and proteins), carbohydrates (which includes the polysaccharides), the nucleic acids (which include DNA and RNA as polymers), and the lipids.
organic_chemistry: Solubility varies widely with the organic solute and with the organic solvent.
organic_chemistry: Highly efficient hardware and software allows a structure to be determined within hours of obtaining a suitable crystal.
organic_chemistry: Additionally, they are prevalent in a wide range of biochemical compounds such as alkaloids, vitamins, steroids, and nucleic acids (e.g.
organic_chemistry: The development of synthetic indigo is illustrative.
organic_chemistry: The degree of branching affects characteristics, such as the octane number or cetane number in petroleum chemistry.
organic_chemistry: Aromatic hydrocarbons contain conjugated double bonds.
organic_chemistry: Alcohols, for example, all have the subunit C-O-H.
organic_chemistry: The smallest cycloalkane family is the three-membered cyclopropane ((CH2)3).
organic_chemistry: The linking process is called polymerization, while the chains, or networks, are called polymers.
organic_chemistry: Such compounds can be "straight-chain", branched-chain or cyclic.
organic_chemistry: The names of organic compounds are either systematic, following logically from a set of rules, or nonsystematic, following various traditions.
organic_chemistry: The range of chemicals studied in organic chemistry includes hydrocarbons (compounds containing only carbon and hydrogen) as well as compounds based on carbon, but also containing other elements, especially oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus (included in many biochemicals) and the halogens.
organic_chemistry: An example of a common reaction is a substitution reaction written as:
organic_chemistry: Pyridine and furan are examples of aromatic heterocycles while piperidine and tetrahydrofuran are the corresponding alicyclic heterocycles.
organic_chemistry: In 1856, William Henry Perkin, while trying to manufacture quinine, accidentally produced the organic dye now known as Perkin's mauve.
organic_chemistry: The synthesis proceeds by utilizing the reactivity of the functional groups in the molecule.
organic_chemistry: All alcohols tend to be somewhat hydrophilic, usually form esters, and usually can be converted to the corresponding halides.
organic_chemistry: A dipole directed towards the functional group (higher pKa therefore basic nature of group) points towards it and decreases in strength with increasing distance.
organic_chemistry: Rings can fuse with other rings on an edge to give polycyclic compounds.
organic_chemistry: Organic compounds form the basis of all known life and constitute the majority of known chemicals.
organic_chemistry: The aliphatic hydrocarbons are subdivided into three groups of homologous series according to their state of saturation:
organic_chemistry: Qualitative properties include odor, consistency, and color.
organic_chemistry: Ehrlich popularized the concepts of "magic bullet" drugs and of systematically improving drug therapies.
organic_chemistry: Molecules are classified based on their functional groups.
organic_chemistry: Total synthesis of complex natural compounds increased in complexity to glucose and terpineol.
organic_chemistry: It involves studying the structure of organic material to determine the structural formula, analyzing physical and chemical properties, and evaluating chemical reactivity to understand the behavior of organic compounds.
organic_chemistry: Strategies to design a synthesis include retrosynthesis, popularized by E.J.
organic_chemistry: Nonsystematic nomenclature is simpler and unambiguous, at least to organic chemists.
organic_chemistry: The pieces, or the proposed precursors, receive the same treatment, until available and ideally inexpensive starting materials are reached.
organic_chemistry: Heterocycles are commonly found in a wide range of products including aniline dyes and medicines.
organic_chemistry: The latter half of the 19th century however witnessed systematic studies of organic compounds.
organic_chemistry: Synthetic organic chemistry is an applied science as it borders engineering, the "design, analysis, and/or construction of works for practical purposes".
organic_chemistry: Many of these reactions are associated with functional groups.
organic_chemistry: In the early part of the 20th century, polymers and enzymes were shown to be large organic molecules, and petroleum was shown to be of biological origin.
organic_chemistry: The principal constituent atoms of organic chemistry – hydrogen and carbon – exist naturally with NMR-responsive isotopes, respectively 1H and 13C.
organic_chemistry: The era of the pharmaceutical industry began in the last decade of the 19th century when the German company, Bayer, first manufactured acetylsalicylic acid—more commonly known as aspirin.
organic_chemistry: The study of organic chemistry overlaps organometallic chemistry and biochemistry, but also with medicinal chemistry, polymer chemistry, and materials science.
organic_chemistry: Elemental analysis: A destructive method used to determine the elemental composition of a molecule.
organic_chemistry: Listed in approximate order of utility, the chief analytical methods are:
organic_chemistry: The number of possible organic reactions is infinite.
organic_chemistry: They are common for complex molecules, which include most natural products.
organic_chemistry: Then, the retrosynthesis is written in the opposite direction to give the synthesis.
organic_chemistry: Rings can also fuse on a "corner" such that one atom (almost always carbon) has two bonds going to one ring and two to another.
organic_chemistry: The most important example is benzene, the structure of which was formulated by Kekulé who first proposed the delocalization or resonance principle for explaining its structure.
organic_chemistry: The concept of functional groups is central in organic chemistry, both as a means to classify structures and for predicting properties.
organic_chemistry: Biopolymers occur within a respectfully natural environment, or without human intervention.
organic_chemistry: In 1996 the trio was awarded the Nobel Prize for their pioneering efforts.
organic_chemistry: Given that millions of organic compounds are known, rigorous use of systematic names can be cumbersome.
organic_chemistry: Mass spectrometry indicates the molecular weight of a compound and, from the fragmentation patterns, its structure.
organic_chemistry: Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is the most commonly used technique, often permitting the complete assignment of atom connectivity and even stereochemistry using correlation spectroscopy.
organic_chemistry: In 2002, 17,000 tons of synthetic indigo were produced from petrochemicals.
organic_chemistry: With the increased use of computing, other naming methods have evolved that are intended to be interpreted by machines.
organic_chemistry: In this context, a small molecule is a small organic compound that is biologically active but is not a polymer.
organic_chemistry: However, certain general patterns are observed that can be used to describe many common or useful reactions.
