pakistan: Some academics such as Rudolph Rummel and Rounaq Jahan say both sides committed genocide; others such as Richard Sisson and Leo E.
pakistan: In 1969, President Yahya Khan consolidated control, but faced a devastating cyclone in East Pakistan resulting in 500,000 deaths.
pakistan: The country continues to face poverty, illiteracy, corruption, and terrorism.
pakistan: The Islamist party Jamaat-e-Islami backed an Islamic state and opposed Bengali nationalism.
pakistan: Certain Kashmiri independence groups believe that Kashmir should be independent of both India and Pakistan.
pakistan: Since independence, Pakistan has aimed to maintain an independent foreign policy.
pakistan: Independent researchers estimate that between 300,000 and 500,000 civilians died during this period while the Bangladesh government puts the number of dead at three million, a figure now nearly universally regarded as excessively inflated.
pakistan: The President also holds powers to pardon and grant clemency.
pakistan: However, due to a nationalist awakening in the Arab world at that time, there was little interest in Pakistan's Pan-Islamic aspirations.
pakistan: Notable pre-Islamic settlements include Mohenjo-daro, Harappa, and Kot Diji.
pakistan: Pakistan boasts 2567 km of motorways and approximately 263,942 km of highways, which handle 92% of passengers and 96% of freight traffic.
pakistan: Specialised Units:
pakistan: Around 44.7% of the population live below the international poverty line of US$4.20 a day, 16.5% live in extreme poverty on less than US$3 a day, 8% of the total labour force is unemployed, and CPI inflation in 2025 was 4.5%.
pakistan: Pakistan is divided into three major geographic areas: the northern highlands, the Indus River plain, and the Balochistan Plateau.
pakistan: in 2004, it faced accusations of supporting the Taliban insurgents in Afghanistan.
pakistan: Additionally, plans are underway to resurrect Karachi's tramway service, which ceased operations in 1975, in collaboration with Austrian experts.
pakistan: During 2024 general election, PTI-backed independents became the largest bloc, but Shehbaz Sharif was elected prime minister for a second term, as a result of a coalition between PML (N) and PPPP.
pakistan: Congress under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi launched the Quit India Movement, demanding an immediate end to British rule.
pakistan: Pakistan's economy ranks 27th globally by purchasing power parity (PPP) and 42nd by nominal GDP.
pakistan: The perception that Congress-led British provincial governments neglected the Muslim League from 1937 to 1939 motivated Jinnah and other Muslim League leaders to embrace the two-nation theory.
pakistan: In contrast, the Muslim League chose to support the UK's war efforts, thereby nurturing the possibility of establishing a Muslim nation.
pakistan: In 1972 Pakistan embarked on an ambitious plan to develop its nuclear deterrence capability with the goal of preventing any foreign invasion; the country's first nuclear power plant was inaugurated in that same year.
pakistan: Pakistan's fauna mirrors its diverse climate.
pakistan: In his 29 December 1930 address, Allama Iqbal advocated the amalgamation of Muslim-majority states in North-West India, including Punjab, North-West Frontier Province, Sind, and Baluchistan.
pakistan: The mountainous north hosts a variety of animals like the Marco Polo sheep, urial, markhor goat, ibex goat, Asian black bear, and Himalayan brown bear.
pakistan: After the Soviets withdrew, infighting erupted among Mujahideen factions over control of Afghanistan.
pakistan: Karachi hosts a historic Roman Catholic community established by Goan and Tamil migrants during British colonial rule.
pakistan: In Punjab and Sindh's Indus plains, tropical and subtropical dry and moist broadleaf forests as well as tropical and xeric shrublands thrive.
pakistan: Due partly to strained relations with India, Pakistan has close ties with Turkey and Iran, both focal points in its foreign policy.
pakistan: Divergence in the relationship between Hinduism and Islam resulted in significant tension in British India, leading to religious violence.
pakistan: Lahore also boasts the Lahore Metrobus, the first of its kind in Pakistan, operational since February 2013.
pakistan: The founder of Pakistan Muhammad Ali Jinnah concluded his address with the slogan Pakistan Zindabad (Long Live Pakistan).
pakistan: With 12,000 employees, Pakistan is among the top five freelancing nations, and its export performance in telecom, computer, and information services has notably improved.
pakistan: Besides atomic bomb project, he made significant contributions in molecular morphology, physical martensite, and their applications in condensed and material physics.
pakistan: In 2012, 2% of the population identified as atheist in a Gallup survey.
pakistan: Government initiatives, including computer literacy since 1995, aim to eradicate illiteracy, targeting 100% enrollment among primary school-age children and an ~86% literacy rate by 2015.
pakistan: Sindh and Punjab are located on the north-western corner of the Indian Plate, while Balochistan and much of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa lie along its north-western margin.
pakistan: Urdu and English serve as the official languages, with Urdu being the country's lingua franca and a unifying force among over 75% of Pakistanis.
pakistan: During this period, Sufi missionaries played a pivotal role in converting a majority of the regional population to Islam.
pakistan: In the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition they faced violence.
pakistan: Located strategically in the world's major maritime oil supply lines and communication fiber optic corridors, Pakistan also enjoys proximity to the natural resources of Central Asian countries.
pakistan: Initially a close ally during the Cold War, Pakistan's relations with the US soured in the 1990s due to sanctions over its secretive nuclear program.
pakistan: The civil aviation industry, deregulated in 1993, operates with a blend of public and private entities while state-owned Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) dominates, carrying 73% of domestic passengers and all domestic freight.
pakistan: Outline of Pakistan
Government of Pakistan
Administrative units of Pakistan
pakistan: In cricket, Pakistan holds victories in all major ICC tournaments, including the ICC Cricket World Cup, ICC World Twenty20, and ICC Champions Trophy.
pakistan: Pakistan had the fifth-largest Hindu population globally in 2010.
pakistan: According to the WEF's Global Competitiveness Report, Pakistan's port infrastructure quality ratings rose from 3.7 to 4.1 between 2007 and 2016.
pakistan: According to the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Pakistan has the sixth-largest diaspora globally.
pakistan: In the region of modern-day Pakistan, key cities during the Mughal period were Multan, Lahore, Peshawar and Thatta, which were chosen as the site of impressive Mughal buildings.
pakistan: An important uprising against the British in the region was the Indian Rebellion of 1857, known at the time as the Sepoy Mutiny.
pakistan: Pakistan's untapped coal reserves have been estimated as the fifth largest in the world and equivalent to about 400 billion barrels of oil, exceeding the combined oil reserves of Saudi Arabia and Iran.
pakistan: Key conflicts included those against the Baloch Talpur dynasty, resolved by the Battle of Miani (1843) in Sindh, the Anglo-Sikh Wars (1845–1849), and the Anglo-Afghan Wars (1839–1919).
pakistan: The collision between these two plates occurs in northwest Pakistan, particularly in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
pakistan: Male homosexuality is illegal in Pakistan and is punishable by up to ten years in prison, corporal punishment such as whipping, and, under Islamic law since 1990, potentially even stoning.
pakistan: Pakistan operates as a democratic parliamentary federal republic, with Islam designated as the state religion.
pakistan: Organisations like the Pakistan Fashion Design Council in Lahore and the Fashion Pakistan Council in Karachi host events like PFDC Fashion Week and Fashion Pakistan Week.
pakistan: The textile industry, a key player in Pakistan's manufacturing, contributes 9.5% to GDP and employs around 15 million people.
pakistan: The advent of Islam in present-day Pakistan marked the cessation of Buddhist architecture, ushering in Islamic architecture.
pakistan: For years, Pakistan has blocked an international treaty to limit fissile material, arguing that its stockpile does not meet its long-term needs.
pakistan: Large-scale manufacturing (LSM) dominates, representing 12.2% of GDP, with cement production thriving due to demand from Afghanistan and the domestic real estate sector.
pakistan: Abdul Qadeer Khan spearheaded Pakistan's HEU-based gas-centrifuge uranium enrichment program for its atomic bomb project.
pakistan: The 2011 Acid and Burn Crime Bill criminalised acid attacks, making them punishable by lengthy imprisonment and fines.
pakistan: In the riots that accompanied the partition in Punjab Province, between 200,000 and 2,000,000 people were killed in what some have described as a retributive genocide between the religions.
pakistan: Pakistan ordered the mass expulsion of undocumented Afghans in October 2023, citing national security risks.
pakistan: Sino-Pakistani nuclear cooperation began in the 1980s, leading to the establishment of CHASNUPP-I.
pakistan: Karachi's Burmese community resides in various slums across the city.
pakistan: The efforts of Jamaat-i-Islami and the ulama led to the passage of the Objectives Resolution in March 1949.
pakistan: Human rights organisations report that hundreds of women are killed each year, with many cases unreported.
pakistan: In 2018, PTI won the general election and Imran Khan became the 22nd Prime Minister.
pakistan: The Orange Line Metro Train in Lahore, inaugurated in 2020, spans 27.1 km (16.8 mi), and includes both elevated and underground sections, accommodating over 250,000 passengers daily.
pakistan: UN Women reported in 2024 that around one in six girls in Pakistan are married during childhood, with the country home to nearly 19 million child brides.
pakistan: These plants contribute approximately 5.8% to Pakistan's electricity supply, while fossil fuels (crude oil and natural gas) provide 64.2%, hydroelectric power provides 29.9%, and coal contributes 0.1%.
pakistan: Migration of Bengalis and Rohingya to Pakistan started in the 1980s and continued till 1998.
pakistan: Rahmat Ali's concept of Pakistan only related to the northwestern area of the Indian subcontinent.
pakistan: Pakistani philosophy has been shaped by influences from British and American philosophy, with notable figures like M.
pakistan: The country boasts around 668 bird species, including crows, sparrows, mynas, hawks, falcons, and eagles.
pakistan: Economic shifts like the green revolution and political developments also play crucial roles.
pakistan: Constitutional amendments in 2010 curtailed presidential powers, enhancing the role of the prime minister.
pakistan: Education is divided into six main levels, including nursery, primary, middle, matriculation, intermediate, and university programs.
pakistan: The Indo-Greek Kingdom founded by Demetrius of Bactria (180–165 BCE) included Gandhara and Punjab and reached its greatest extent under Menander (165–150 BCE), prospering the Greco-Buddhist culture in the region.
pakistan: Keith Callard observed that Pakistanis believed in the essential unity of purpose and outlook in the Muslim world, expecting similar views on religion and nationality from Muslims worldwide.
pakistan: Pakistan boasts a 1,046 km (650 mi) coastline along the Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman, and shares land borders totalling 6,774 km (4,209 mi), including 2,430 km (1,510 mi) with Afghanistan, 523 km (325 mi) with China, 2,912 km (1,809 mi) with India, and 909 km (565 mi) with Iran.
pakistan: The PAF engaged with Soviet and Afghan Air Forces during the conflict.
pakistan: Overseas Pakistanis constitute the second-largest source of foreign exchange remittances to Pakistan, with remittances increasing by over 100% from US$8.9 billion in 2009–10 to US$19.9 billion in 2015–16.
pakistan: Tharparkar district hosts the largest Hindu population.
pakistan: Rare animals include the snow leopard and the blind Indus river dolphin, of which there are believed to be about 1,816 remaining, protected at the Indus Dolphin Reserve in Sindh.
pakistan: Pakistan ranks 10th globally for remittances sent home.
pakistan: Pakistan is considered a middle power and is a declared nuclear-weapon state, with the world's seventh-largest standing armed forces.
pakistan: Covering 881,913 km2 (340,509 sq mi), Pakistan ranks as the 33rd-largest nation by total area, but this varies based on Kashmir's disputed status.
pakistan: Karachi is the largest Muslim city in the world.
pakistan: Situated at the crossroads of South Asia, the Middle East, and Central Asia, Pakistan's location is geopolitically significant.
pakistan: Meat industry accounts for 1.4 percent of overall GDP.
pakistan: After the assassination of Benazir Bhutto in 2007, the PPP secured the most votes in the elections of 2008, appointing party member Yusuf Raza Gilani as Prime Minister.
pakistan: Historically, Pakistan was part of the wealthiest region in the first millennium CE, but lost ground to regions like China and Western Europe by the 18th century.
pakistan: Following Christianity, the Bahá'í Faith had 30,000 followers in 2008, followed by Sikhism, Buddhism, and Zoroastrianism, each with around 20,000 adherents in 2008, alongside a small Jain community.
pakistan: In East Pakistan, Bengali Muslims increasingly prioritised Bengali ethno-nationalism over religious nationalism.
pakistan: Pakistan's nuclear program in the 20th century aimed to counter India's nuclear ambitions in the region, and reciprocal nuclear tests ensued after India's nuclear tests, solidifying Pakistan as a nuclear power.
pakistan: It was the largest mass migration in human history.
pakistan: Pakistan vigorously advocated for self-determination among Muslims globally.
pakistan: The climate varies from tropical to temperate, with arid conditions in the coastal south.
pakistan: It declared Pakistan an Islamic Republic, with Islam as the state religion, and mandated laws to comply with Islamic teachings laid down in the Quran and Sunnah and that no law repugnant to such injunctions could be enacted.
pakistan: Pakistani theoretical physicist Abdus Salam won a Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on the electroweak interaction.
pakistan: At Pakistan's inception, the 'hostage theory' suggested fair treatment of Hindus to safeguard Muslims in India.
pakistan: Relations with Russia have improved since the end of the Cold War, but Pakistan's relationship with the United States has been "on-and-off".
pakistan: Provincial governments: Each of the four provinces follows a similar governance system, with a directly elected Provincial Assembly choosing the Chief Minister, usually from the largest party or coalition.
pakistan: Pakistan from UCB Libraries GovPubs
Pakistan from BBC News
 Wikimedia Atlas of Pakistan
Key Development Forecasts for Pakistan from International Futures
 Geographic data related to Pakistan at OpenStreetMap
pakistan: Pakistan ranked 56th on the 2006 A.T.
pakistan: According to the 2023 national census, the largest ethnolinguistic groups include the Punjabis (36.98%), Pashtuns (18.15%), Sindhis (14.31%), Saraikis (12%), Urdu speaking people (9.25%), Balochs (3.38%), Hindkowans/Hazarewals (2.32%), and Brahuis (1.16%).
pakistan: The chinkara is the only animal found in significant numbers in Cholistan, with a few nilgai along the Pakistan–India border and in some parts of Cholistan.
pakistan: As of 2025, Pakistan's nominal GDP stood at US$407.79 billion, while GDP (PPP) was US$1.8 trillion in 2026.
pakistan: Technical and vocational institutions in Pakistan number approximately 3,193, complemented by madrassahs providing free Islamic education to students, with government efforts to regulate and monitor their quality amidst concerns over extremists recruitment.
pakistan: This led to Operation Searchlight, a military crackdown, and eventually sparked the war of liberation by Bengali Mukti Bahini forces in East Pakistan, described in West Pakistan as a civil war rather than a liberation struggle.
pakistan: The ancient university was documented by the invading forces of Alexander the Great and recorded by Chinese pilgrims in the 4th or 5th century CE.
pakistan: In chemistry, Salimuzzaman Siddiqui identified the medicinal properties of the neem tree's components.
pakistan: Overseeing the Joint Staff Headquarters, they coordinate inter-service cooperation and joint military missions.
pakistan: However, after the East Pakistani Awami League emerged victorious over the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Yahya Khan and the military refused to transfer power.
pakistan: After the 1970 general elections, the Parliament crafted the 1973 Constitution.
pakistan: Pakistan's support for the Sunni Taliban in Afghanistan challenged Shia-led Iran, which opposed a Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.
pakistan: In 2016, Pakistan mediated between Saudi Arabia and Iran following the execution of Shia cleric Nimr al-Nimr, with visits to both countries by then Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and the Chief of Army Staff, Raheel Sharif.
pakistan: Threatened with impeachment, President Musharraf resigned on 18 August 2008, and was succeeded by Asif Ali Zardari.
pakistan: All positions above the Assistant Superintendent level are filled from the PSP, ensuring national standards across provincial forces.
pakistan: Rahmat Ali explained: "It is composed of letters taken from the names of all our homelands, Indian and Asian, Panjab, Afghania, Kashmir, Sindh, and Baluchistan." He added, "Pakistan is both a Persian and Urdu word...
pakistan: The sector's growth rate surpasses that of agriculture and industry, accounting for 54% of GDP and over one-third of total employment.
pakistan: Notable figures in contemporary Urdu literature include Josh Malihabadi, Faiz Ahmed Faiz, and Saadat Hasan Manto.
pakistan: By 1893, all modern Pakistan was part of the British Indian Empire, and remained so until independence in 1947.
pakistan: The Balochistan Plateau lies in the west and the Thar Desert in the east.
pakistan: Lassi, a traditional drink from the Punjab region, and black tea with milk and sugar are popular beverages enjoyed nationwide.
pakistan: The western regions of Pakistan became part of Achaemenid Empire around 517 BCE.
pakistan: Wars in neighbouring Afghanistan in the 1980s and 1990s pushed millions of Afghan refugees into Pakistan, mainly in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and tribal areas, with some in Karachi and Quetta.
pakistan: Pakistan's IT sector is one of the fastest-growing, ranked 110th for ICT development by the World Economic Forum.
pakistan: Pakistan is considered a middle power nation, with the world's seventh-largest standing armed forces in terms of personnel size, comprising approximately 660,000 active-duty troops and 291,000 paramilitary personnel as of 2024.
pakistan: However, in 2019, the screening of Bollywood movies faced an indefinite ban.
pakistan: Pakistan's inaugural fashion week took place in November 2009.
pakistan: At 7:00 P.M., All India Radio transmitted the public announcement, starting with the viceroy's address, followed by individual speeches from Nehru, and Jinnah.
pakistan: The PAF's fighter pilots participated in missions against Israel during the Six-Day War and the Yom Kippur War.
pakistan: Notably, Pakistan launched its first rocket into space, pioneering South Asia's space exploration.
pakistan: India controls about 45.1% of Kashmir, including Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, while Pakistan controls roughly 38.2%, comprising Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit−Baltistan.
pakistan: Territorial disputes led to another war in 1965.
pakistan: Zulfikar Ali Bhutto faced opposition under the banner of Nizam-e-Mustafa ("Rule of the Prophet"), advocating an Islamic state.
pakistan: Pakistan produced 28.98 million metric tons of wheat in 2025/2026 (3% of global output), ranking 7th globally.
pakistan: Senate members are elected by provincial legislators, ensuring equal representation across all provinces.
pakistan: He established the Kahuta Research Laboratories (KRL) in 1976, serving as both its senior scientist and the Director-General until his retirement in 2001.
pakistan: Pakistan's Nuclear Energy Vision 2050 targets a capacity of 40,000 MWe, with 8,900 MWe expected by 2030.
pakistan: While building up the country's nuclear program, increasing Islamisation, and the rise of a homegrown conservative philosophy, Pakistan helped subsidise and distribute US resources to factions of the mujahideen against  the USSR's intervention in communist Afghanistan.
pakistan: Notable Buddhist architectural remnants include the Takht-i-Bahi monastery in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
pakistan: Hinduism is the second-largest religion, followed by 2.17% of the population according to the census in 2023.
pakistan: However, they lack direct command over the branches and serve as intermediaries, ensuring communication between the military and civilian leadership.
pakistan: Judicature: The judiciary in Pakistan has two classes: the superior and subordinate judiciary.
pakistan: It has advocated for the concept of "enlightened moderation" in the Muslim world.
pakistan: The superior judiciary includes the Supreme Court of Pakistan, Federal Shariat Court, and five high courts, with the Supreme Court at the top.
pakistan: From 1947 to 1956, Pakistan was a monarchy within the Commonwealth of Nations, and had two monarchs before it became a republic.
pakistan: In 2015 alone, they inked 51 agreements and Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) for cooperative efforts.
pakistan: Field hockey is the national sport.
pakistan: In 2023, Pakistan ranked 26th globally in published scientific papers.
pakistan: The first conflict took place in Kashmir and ended in a United Nations-mediated ceasefire, with Pakistan gaining control of one-third of the region.
pakistan: Pakistan provided refuge to millions of displaced Afghans after the Soviet invasion and supported the Afghan mujahideen in their efforts to expel Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
pakistan: The majority follow Sunni Islam, with a significant presence of Sufism, while Shia Muslims constitute a minority.
pakistan: Karachi hosts a significant number of Bengali settlements, and large Rohingya migration made it one of their largest populations outside Myanmar.
pakistan: Additionally, about 20% of the region, known as Aksai Chin and the Shaksgam Valley, is under Chinese control.
pakistan: Due to its support for Azerbaijan in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, Pakistan has not established diplomatic relations with Armenia.
pakistan: The general election held in 2013 saw the PML (N) achieve victory, following which Nawaz Sharif was elected as Prime Minister for the third time.
pakistan: Responsibilities include forming a cabinet, making executive decisions, and appointing senior civil servants, subject to executive confirmation.
pakistan: In the east, west, and north, a dense population arc spans cities like Lahore, Faisalabad, Rawalpindi, Islamabad, Sargodha, Gujranwala, Sialkot, Gujrat, Jhelum, Sheikhupura, Nowshera, Mardan, and Peshawar.
pakistan: Despite challenges faced by the Pakistani film industry, Urdu televised dramas and theatrical performances remain popular, frequently broadcast by many entertainment media outlets.
pakistan: The PPP was followed by conservative Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML (N)), and over the next decade the leaders of the two parties fought for power, alternating in office.
pakistan: Muslim League leader Chaudhry Khaliquzzaman asserted that Pakistan could only truly become an Islamic state after bringing all believers of Islam into a single political unit.
pakistan: Industry, constituting 19.74% of GDP and 24% of total employment, is the second-largest sector.
pakistan: and beyond.
pakistan: Developments in science and technology have played a significant role in Pakistan's infrastructure, linking the nation to the global community.
pakistan: As PML (N) secured a supermajority in elections in 1997, Nawaz Sharif authorised nuclear testings, as a retaliation to the second nuclear tests conducted by India in May 1998.
pakistan: This forced the Indian National Congress, initially skeptical of the League's representation of Indian Muslims, to acknowledge its significance.
pakistan: Rice is also common, served plain, spiced, or in sweet dishes.
pakistan: Meanwhile, Pakistan's founding fathers agreed to appoint Liaquat Ali Khan, the secretary-general of the party, the nation's first Prime Minister.
pakistan: Despite Jinnah International Airport serving as the primary international gateway, significant international traffic also flows through Lahore, Islamabad, Peshawar, Quetta, Faisalabad, Sialkot, and Multan airports.
pakistan: Although Pakistan was granted major non-NATO ally status by the U.S.
pakistan: As of 2018, Pakistan's literacy rate stands at 62.3%, with significant regional and gender disparities.
pakistan: According to foreign policy expert Hasan Askari Rizvi, "Pakistan highlights sovereign equality of states, bilateralism, mutuality of interests, and non-interference in each other's domestic affairs as the cardinal features of its foreign policy."
pakistan: In addition to the national dress, men often wear domestically tailored suits and neckties, especially in offices, schools, and social gatherings.
pakistan: Democracy faced setbacks due to the martial law imposed by President Iskander Mirza, who was succeeded by General Ayub Khan.
pakistan: Instead, Pakistan aimed to play a proactive diplomatic role in resolving the crisis, which led to tensions between the two countries.
pakistan: In 1990, it successfully launched its first satellite, becoming the first Muslim nation and second in South Asia to achieve this milestone.
pakistan: Christians are the next largest religious minority after Hindus, constituting 1.37% of the population.
pakistan: From coniferous alpine and subalpine trees like spruce, pine, and deodar cedar in the northern mountains to deciduous trees like shisham in the Sulaiman Mountains, and palms such as coconut and date in the southern regions.
pakistan: Pakistan's North-West Frontier Province became a base for the anti-Soviet Afghan fighters, with the province's influential Deobandi ulama playing a significant role in encouraging and organising the 'jihad'.
pakistan: Karachi's Green Line Metrobus, operational since December 2021, is part of a larger metrobus project financed by the Government of Pakistan and initiated in February 2016.
pakistan: The term Overseas Pakistani is officially recognised by the Government of Pakistan, with the Ministry of Overseas Pakistanis and Human Resource Development addressing their needs, welfare, and issues.
pakistan: Following the decline of the Indus Valley Civilisation, semi-nomadic Indo-European Aryans migrated into the Indian subcontinent around 2000 BCE, perhaps by way of the Khyber Pass.
pakistan: Both military and civilian governments have historically used such tactics.
pakistan: Pakistan's founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, consistently advocated for the Palestinian cause, shaping Pakistan's foreign policy to support Palestinian rights within the broader framework of Muslim solidarity.
pakistan: In 2015, the World Economic Forum ranked Pakistan 125th out of 141 countries in its Travel & Tourism Competitiveness Report.
pakistan: Pakistan ranks second globally in Muslim population, and is home to 10.5% of the world's Muslims.
pakistan: In reciprocation, China stands as Pakistan's largest trading partner, with substantial investment in Pakistani infrastructure, notably the Gwadar port.
pakistan: Multan Metrobus, inaugurated in January 2017, serves Multan with its rapid transit services.
pakistan: Jinnah refused Mountbatten's offer to serve as Governor-General of Pakistan.
pakistan: This idea, articulated by the Muslim League, the Islamic clergy, and Jinnah, envisioned an Islamic state.
pakistan: In March 1929, in response to the Nehru Report, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, issued his fourteen points, which included proposals to safeguard the interests of the Muslim minority in a united India.
pakistan: Pakistan was ranked 99th in the Global Innovation Index by 2025.
pakistan: Bhutto conceded to some Islamist demands before being ousted in a coup.
pakistan: The growing political power of the British in Bengal had not yet reached the territories of modern Pakistan.
pakistan: Some of the earliest ancient human civilisations in South Asia originated from areas encompassing present-day Pakistan.
pakistan: Command and control over Pakistan's strategic arsenal development and employment is vested in the National Command Authority, overseeing work on nuclear doctrine to maintain Full spectrum deterrence.
pakistan: Pakistan's middle class is estimated to be around 40–50 million people, representing 15–20 per cent of the population.
pakistan: They are concentrated in Lahore District (5%) and Islamabad Capital Territory (over 4%).
pakistan: Civil society in Pakistan is hierarchical, emphasising local cultural etiquette and traditional Islamic values.
pakistan: During the Soviet–Afghan War in the 1980s, it was a close ally of the United States.
pakistan: Pakistan's foreign policy and geostrategy focus on the economy, security, national identity, and territorial integrity, as well as building close ties with other Muslim nations.
pakistan: It means the land of the Paks, the spiritually pure and clean." Etymologists note that پاک pāk, is 'pure' in Persian and Pashto and the Persian suffix ـستان -stan means 'land' or 'place of'.
pakistan: China has been a significant buyer of Pakistani textiles, importing US$1.527 billion worth of textiles in 2012.
pakistan: The earliest known stone tools in the region, dating to the Lower Palaeolithic (~2 million years ago), were discovered in the Soan Valley of northern Pakistan.
pakistan: Pakistan's relations with Iran have been strained by sectarian tensions, with both Iran and Saudi Arabia using Pakistan as a battleground for their proxy sectarian war.
pakistan: Pakistan ranks near the bottom globally on the Global Gender Gap Index's economic participation and opportunity sub-index for women, reflecting very low female labour force participation and limited representation of women in senior economic roles.
pakistan: The onset of the Indus civilisation around the mid-3rd millennium BCE heralded an urban culture, evidenced by surviving large structures.
pakistan: Provincial police forces are led by an Inspector-General of Police (IGP), who is appointed from the federally recruited and trained Police Service of Pakistan (PSP) through a consultative process between the federal and provincial governments.
pakistan: According to the journalist Raza Rumi, in 2023, TV channels in Pakistan faced suspensions and legal threats for airing content critical of the government or military, while online platforms also experienced temporary takedowns.
pakistan: Chief Ministers lead the provincial cabinet and oversee provincial governance.
pakistan: Taxila had one of the earliest universities and centres of higher education in the world, which was established during the late Vedic period in the 6th century BCE.
pakistan: The local government system consists of districts, tehsils, and union councils, with an elected body at each tier.
pakistan: In 2013, Pakistan established a second nuclear complex in Karachi with plans for additional reactors, similar to Chashma.
pakistan: Pakistan's economy has shifted from agriculture to trade and services, with agriculture contributing about one-fifth of GDP and manufacturing one-sixth, while trade and services form the largest share.
pakistan: The project's cost was then US$1.7 billion, with a foreign loan of US$1.07 billion.
pakistan: The Rawalpindi-Islamabad Metrobus, stretching 48.1 km, commenced its first phase in June 2015, with subsequent extensions, and employs e-ticketing and an Intelligent Transportation System.
pakistan: The region also included various princely states, with the largest being Bahawalpur.
pakistan: These proposals were rejected.
pakistan: Coniferous forests span altitudes from 1,000 to 4,000 metres (3,300 to 13,100 feet) in most northern and northwestern highlands.
pakistan: In September 2025, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia signed a Strategic Mutual Defence Agreement under which any aggression against one country is considered an aggression against both, formalising a defensive commitment that also extends Pakistan's nuclear umbrella to Saudi Arabia.
pakistan: Both men and women typically wear Shalwar Kameez; men also favour trousers, jeans, and shirts.
pakistan: Legislative: The bicameral legislature includes a 96-member Senate (upper house) and a 336-member National Assembly (lower house).
pakistan: Since 2001, the Pakistan military has been engaged in counterinsurgency and internal security operations in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, primarily targeting Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan and associated militant groups.
pakistan: The military's influence in mainstream politics has been significant throughout Pakistan's history.
pakistan: In total, 174 species of mammals, 177 species of reptiles, 22 species of amphibians, 198 species of freshwater fish, 668 species of birds, over 5,000 species of insects, and over 5,700 species of plants have been recorded in Pakistan.
pakistan: This new nation amalgamated the Muslim-majority eastern and northwestern regions of British India, comprising the provinces of Balochistan, East Bengal, the North-West Frontier Province, West Punjab, and Sindh.
pakistan: Festivals like Eid ul-Fitr, Eid ul-Azha, Ramadan, Christmas, Easter, Holi, and Diwali are primarily religious.
pakistan: Tensions in Kargil brought the two countries to the brink of war.
pakistan: Approximately 7 million Pakistanis reside abroad, mainly in the Middle East, Europe, and North America.
pakistan: Pakistan was the 5th-largest recipient and importer of arms between 2019 and 2023.
pakistan: However, some Pakistani Hindus felt marginalised, leading to emigration to India.
pakistan: Pakistan hosts one of the world's largest refugee populations.
pakistan: The Pakistani diaspora, numbering over seven million, is the sixth largest in the world.
pakistan: Mountbatten expressed his lack of support and faith in the Muslim League's idea of Pakistan.
pakistan: The northern part of Pakistan boasts numerous old fortresses, showcasing ancient architecture.
pakistan: Provincial assemblies legislate and approve the provincial budget, typically presented by the provincial finance minister annually.
pakistan: Squash player Jahangir Khan holds the record for the longest winning streak in professional sport history, winning 555 consecutive matches.
pakistan: Executive: The Prime Minister, typically the leader of the majority rule party or coalition in the National Assembly (the lower house), serves as the country's chief executive and head of government.
pakistan: In a final attempt to prevent partition, they proposed the Cabinet Mission Plan.
pakistan: The western hills boast juniper, tamarisk, coarse grasses, and scrub plants.
pakistan: Approximately 4.8% or 36,845.6 square kilometres (3,684,560 ha) of Pakistan was forested in 2021.
pakistan: Indus is home to mugger crocodiles, while surrounding areas host wild boars, deer, and porcupines.
pakistan: The early medieval period (642–1219 CE) witnessed the spread of Islam in the region.
pakistan: Each province has its own style.
pakistan: Central Intelligence Agency.
pakistan: The country's educational landscape encompasses both public and private universities, fostering collaboration to enhance research and higher education opportunities, albeit with concerns regarding teaching quality in newer institutions.
pakistan: As the Cabinet Mission failed, the British announced their intention to end rule by June 1948.
pakistan: The 1946 elections saw the Muslim League secure 90 percent of the Muslim seats, supported by the landowners of Sindh and Punjab.
pakistan: Meanwhile, Faisalabad awaits its proposed rapid transit project, the Faisalabad Metrobus.
pakistan: The 1,609 km (1,000 mi) Indus River and its tributaries traverse the nation from Kashmir to the Arabian Sea, sustaining alluvial plains along the Punjab and Sindh regions.
pakistan: In 2023, Pakistan's installed electricity generation capacity was ~45,885 MWt.
pakistan: After 1971, Marxist thought gained prominence in Pakistani philosophy through figures like Jalaludin Abdur Rahim.
pakistan: In 1971, India and Pakistan fought another war over East Pakistan, with Indian forces aiding its independence, leading to the creation of Bangladesh.
pakistan: Palas, Kohistan, is home to the western tragopan, with many migratory birds visiting from Europe, Central Asia, and India.
pakistan: A Muslim intellectual movement, led by Sir Syed Ahmed Khan to counter the Hindu renaissance, advocated for the two-nation theory and led to the establishment of the All-India Muslim League in 1906.
pakistan: In 2009, the constitutional assignment (the Gilgit–Baltistan Empowerment and Self-Governance Order) granted Gilgit-Baltistan semi-provincial status, providing it with self-government.
pakistan: The influential Pakistan Academy of Sciences guides the government on science policies.
pakistan: Initially adopting a constitution in 1956, Pakistan saw it suspended by Ayub Khan in 1958, replaced by a second constitution in 1962.
pakistan: As of 2013, Pakistan boasts approximately 151 airports and airfields, encompassing both military and civilian installations.
pakistan: Urdu dramas dominate the television entertainment industry, renowned for their quality since the 1990s.
pakistan: Specialised Rapid Response Units: Specialised counter-terrorism units, such as the Punjab Elite Police Force, have been trained by army commandos and exist in every province to respond to hostage situations and neutralise armed groups.
pakistan: The nominal per capita GDP was US$1,700, and the GDP (PPP)/capita amounted to US$6,950 (international dollars).
pakistan: The Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC) oversees these plants, while the Pakistan Nuclear Regulatory Authority ensures their safe operation.
pakistan: By the early Vedic period, parts of the Indus region in present-day Pakistan were populated by numerous tribes that were beginning to coalesce into chieftain-led clans and early kingdoms.
pakistan: Saudi Arabia is the largest source of remittances, contributing $5.9 billion as of 2016.
pakistan: The Kashmir conflict remains a major issue between Pakistan and India, with three of their four wars fought over it.
pakistan: Mirza Kalich Beg is hailed as the father of modern Sindhi prose.
pakistan: The primary family unit is the extended family, but there's a rising trend towards nuclear families due to socio-economic factors.
pakistan: Since 1947, Pakistan has been involved in four conventional wars with India.
pakistan: Electrical energy in Pakistan is generated by various corporations and distributed evenly among the four provinces by the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA).
pakistan: He also proposed the name "Banglastan" for the Muslim areas of Bengal and "Osmanistan" for Hyderabad State, as well as a political federation between the three.
pakistan: India, fearing Kashmir's secession, did not hold the promised plebiscite, as it believed Kashmiris would vote to join Pakistan.
pakistan: As the United Kingdom agreed to the partitioning of India, the modern state of Pakistan was established on 14 August 1947 (27th of Ramadan in 1366 of the Islamic calendar, a holy time regarded as auspicious and noted for its religious importance).
pakistan: According to a 2023 UN report, the Pakistani military was the fifth largest troop contributor to UN peacekeeping missions.
pakistan: Following a 2012 attack on activist Malala Yousafzai by the Taliban, she became the youngest Nobel laureate for her education advocacy.
pakistan: Jinnah's emergence as the voice of the Indian Muslims, compelled the British to consider their stance, despite their reluctance to partition India.
pakistan: It has the world's 7th-largest labour force, and its diaspora of around 10 million, sent US$38.3 billion in remittances in fiscal year 2024–25, as reported by the Special Investment Facilitation Council.
pakistan: Four periods define Pakistani architecture: pre-Islamic, Islamic, colonial, and post-colonial.
pakistan: Honour killings, locally referred to as karo-kari in parts of Pakistan, involve the killing of women and, less frequently, men by family or community members over alleged extramarital relationships or perceived violations of honour.
pakistan: The railway's share of inland traffic is reduced to below 8% for passengers and 4% for freight.
pakistan: The Pakistan Academy of Letters actively promotes literature and poetry both domestically and internationally.
pakistan: Since 9/11, Pakistan has been a US ally on counterterrorism, but their relationship has been strained due to diverging interests and mistrust during the 20-year war and terrorism issues.
pakistan: In parts of Pakistan, girls are given in marriage to settle disputes or crimes between families in a customary practice called Vani.
pakistan: Pakistan does not have formal diplomatic relations with Israel; nonetheless, an exchange occurred between the two countries in 2005, with Turkey acting as an intermediary.
pakistan: Ommaya developed the Ommaya reservoir for treating brain conditions.
pakistan: Around 6.5 million Muslims moved from India to West Pakistan and 4.7 million Hindus and Sikhs moved from West Pakistan to India.
pakistan: Pakistan, a federal parliamentary republic, consists of four provinces: Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh, and Balochistan, along with three territories: Islamabad Capital Territory, Gilgit-Baltistan, and Azad Kashmir.
pakistan: India's first nuclear test in 1974 gave Pakistan additional justification to accelerate its nuclear program.
pakistan: None of modern Pakistan was under British rule until 1839 when Karachi, a small fishing village governed by Talpurs of Sindh with a mud fort guarding the harbour, was taken, and used as an enclave with a port and military base for the First Afghan War that ensued.
pakistan: The constitution reserves 70 seats for women and religious minorities, allocated to political parties based on proportional representation.
pakistan: In 2013, Pakistan exported 7,708,557 metric tons of cement, with an installed capacity of 44,768,250 metric tons.
pakistan: Pakistani media has been instrumental in exposing corruption.
pakistan: Lahore also boasts the vibrant Wazir Khan Mosque, and the lush Shalimar Gardens.
pakistan: Central Pakistan's sandy scrublands shelter Asiatic jackals, striped hyenas, wildcats, and leopards.
pakistan: Pakistani cuisine, rooted in the royal kitchens of 16th-century Mughal emperors, blends influences from British, Indian, Central Asian, and Middle Eastern culinary traditions.
pakistan: Pakistan experiences four distinct seasons: a cool, dry winter from December through February; a hot, dry spring from March through May; the summer rainy season, or southwest monsoon period, from June through September; and the retreating monsoon period of October and November.
pakistan: Islam dominates in Pakistan, with about 96.35% of the population being Muslim.
pakistan: After Independence, Pakistan vigorously pursued bilateral relations with other Muslim countries.
pakistan: Each of the four provinces (Punjab, Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Balochistan) has its own police force, while the Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT) has the Islamabad Police.
pakistan: According to BBC, thousands of Uyghur Muslims live in Gilgit-Baltistan, some left Xinjiang, China and the thriving trading town of Kashgar in 1949, while others are later arrivals, claiming to escape political oppression.
pakistan: He instituted Shariat judicial courts, and court benches, to adjudicate using Islamic doctrine.
pakistan: Pakistan is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, SAARC, ECO, and the G20 developing nations.
pakistan: Pakistani special forces assisted Saudi forces in Mecca during the Grand Mosque Seizure.
pakistan: In 2021, the National Intelligence Coordination Committee was established to improve coordination among Pakistan's intelligence agencies.
pakistan: The southern plains harbor mongooses, small Indian civet, hares, the Asiatic jackal, the Indian pangolin, the jungle cat, and the sand cat.
pakistan: By its own financial calculations, Pakistan's involvement in the war on terrorism has cost up to $118 billion, over eighty one thousand casualties, and more than 1.8 million displaced civilians.
pakistan: Pakistan acts as China's liaison to the Muslim world, and both nations support each other on sensitive issues like Kashmir, Taiwan, Xinjiang, and more.
pakistan: This sparked a major territorial dispute between India and Pakistan, resulting in several conflicts over the region.
pakistan: Umerkot district of the province is the only Hindu majority area.
pakistan: The middle class has grown to about 35 million, with another 17 million in the upper and upper-middle classes, leading to a shift in power from rural landowners to urban elites.
pakistan: The Civil Armed Forces (CAF) assist local law enforcement agencies and participate in border security and internal security operations, particularly in conflict-affected regions.
pakistan: In 2005, both countries proposed a joint energy security plan, aiming for a generation capacity exceeding 160,000 MWe by 2030.
pakistan: National Assembly members are elected via first-past-the-post under universal adult suffrage, representing National Assembly constituencies.
pakistan: Pakistan, a prominent member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), prioritises maintaining cultural, political, social, and economic relations with Arab and other Muslim-majority nations in its foreign policy.
pakistan: It is an ethnically and linguistically diverse country, with similarly diverse geography and wildlife.
pakistan: A subsequent dispute over the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir eventually sparked the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947–1948.
pakistan: Pakistan and Bangladesh have experienced strained relations, particularly under the Awami League governments led by Sheikh Hasina, driven by her pro-India stance and historical grievances.
pakistan: Pakistan's desire for an international organisation of Muslim countries was fulfilled in the 1970s when the Organisation of Islamic Conference (OIC) was formed.
pakistan: Unlike Middle Eastern fare, Pakistani dishes are heavily spiced with garlic, ginger, turmeric, chilli, and garam masala.
pakistan: The first successful democratic transition occurred in May 2013.
pakistan: Pakistan, officially the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, is a country in South Asia.
pakistan: The remaining population consists of various ethnic minorities such as Kashmiris, Paharis, Chitralis, various peoples of Gilgit-Baltistan, Kohistanis, Torwalis, Meos, Hazaras, Kalash and Siddis.
pakistan: Other sports like squash, polo, and traditional games are also enjoyed.
pakistan: Pakistan has hosted various international events, including Cricket and Hockey World Cups and Asian Games.
pakistan: In April 2022, Shehbaz Sharif was elected as prime minister, after Imran Khan lost a no-confidence vote.
pakistan: The Government of Pakistan governs the western parts of the Kashmir Region, organised into separate political entities, Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan.
pakistan: It encompasses the Hunza and Chitral valleys, where the small pre-Islamic Kalasha community resides, claiming descent from Alexander the Great.
pakistan: Pakistan produced 1,135 megawatts of renewable energy for the month of October 2016.
pakistan: As a non-signatory of the Treaty on Nuclear Non-Proliferation, Pakistan holds influence in the IAEA.
pakistan: The Mughals introduced Persian literature and high culture, establishing the roots of Indo-Persian culture in the region.
pakistan: They reside across Pakistan but are concentrated in Sindh, where they make up 8.81% of the population.
pakistan: In Pakistan, all sexual activity outside of marriage is illegal.
pakistan: In the 18th century, the slow disintegration of the Mughal Empire was hastened by the emergence of the rival powers like the Maratha Empire and later the Sikh Empire, as well as invasions by Nader Shah from Iran in 1739, and the Durrani Empire of Afghanistan in 1748.
pakistan: The private print media, state-owned Pakistan Television Corporation (PTV), and Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation (PBC) dominated media until the 21st century.
pakistan: Pakistan has deployed its military in some Arab countries, providing defense, training, and advisory roles.
pakistan: The Prime Minister advises the President on key appointments, including military and judicial positions, and the President is constitutionally bound to act on this advice.
pakistan: Despite changes in Pakistani governance and regional/global dynamics, China's influence in Pakistan remains paramount.
pakistan: It has a maritime border with Oman and is separated from Tajikistan via the narrow strip of the Wakhan Corridor.
pakistan: With around 82 million internet users as of May 2020, Pakistan ranks among top ten globally, and its ICT industry is projected to exceed $10 billion by 2020.
pakistan: The fusion of Buddhism and Greek influences birthed a distinctive Greco-Buddhist style from the 1st century CE, exemplified by the renowned Gandhara style.
pakistan: Pakistan allocates 2.3% of its GDP to education, among the lowest in South Asia.
pakistan: It has strong linkages with other sectors, providing essential inputs to agriculture and manufacturing.
pakistan: In June 2008, the nuclear complex at Chashma in Punjab Province expanded with the installation of Chashma-III and Chashma–IV reactors, each with 325–340 MWe, costing ₨129 billion, with ₨80 billion from international sources, mainly China.
pakistan: Other minorities include Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Zoroastrians (Parsi), and the unique Kalash people who practice animism.
pakistan: The inaugural meeting was attended by the heads of the ISI, IB, and FIA.
pakistan: After independence in 1947, Jinnah, the President of the Muslim League, became Pakistan's first Governor-General and the first President-Speaker of the Parliament, but he died of tuberculosis on 11 September 1948.
pakistan: Pakistan expects to produce 10,000 megawatts of renewable energy by 2025.
pakistan: Pakistan provided support to Saudi Arabia during the Gulf War.
pakistan: Lahore, Pakistan's cultural capital, contains lots of Mughal architecture, including the Badshahi Masjid, the Shalimar Gardens, the Tomb of Jahangir, and the Lahore Fort.
pakistan: Mawdudi insisted that the Constituent Assembly declare the "supreme sovereignty of God" and the supremacy of the shariah in Pakistan.
pakistan: Manufactured exports, heavily reliant on agricultural raw materials like cotton and hides, face inflationary pressures due to supply shortages and market disruptions.
pakistan: Presently, Pakistan operates a multi-party parliamentary system, with distinct checks and balances among government branches.
pakistan: Ahmadis face persecution, banned from calling themselves Muslims since 1974.
pakistan: According to Masarrat Misbah, founder of the Depilex Smileagain Foundation, women have been targeted for rejecting marriage proposals, giving birth to daughters instead of sons, or insufficient dowry.
pakistan: ISI, under Nasir's leadership, supported Chinese Muslims in Xinjiang, rebel groups in the Philippines, and religious groups in Central Asia.
pakistan: National Library contributes to literary dissemination.
pakistan: Jinnah, closely associated with the ulama, was described upon his death by Maulana Shabbir Ahmad Usmani as the greatest Muslim after Aurangzeb, aspiring to unite Muslims worldwide under Islam.
pakistan: The Objectives Resolution of March 1949 marked the initial step towards this goal, affirming God as the sole sovereign.
pakistan: Democracy ended with a military coup in 1977 against the leftist PPP, which saw General Zia-ul-Haq become the president in 1978.
pakistan: In the early 16th century, the region remained under the Mughal Empire.
pakistan: From 1977 to 1988, President Zia's corporatisation and economic Islamisation initiatives led to Pakistan becoming one of the fastest-growing economies in South Asia.
pakistan: Rose believe there was no genocide.
pakistan: Among the major powers that ruled the region were the Mauryas (322–185 BCE), during which Ashoka the Great extended the empire.
pakistan: This cultural milieu shaped the Gandhara Civilisation, which flourished at the crossroads of India, Central Asia, and the Middle East, connecting trade routes and absorbing cultural influences from diverse civilisations.
pakistan: Pakistani scientists have made notable contributions in mathematics, biology, economics, computer science, and genetics.
pakistan: In 2023, Hindus numbered 5,217,216.
pakistan: There is a monsoon season with frequent flooding due to heavy rainfall, and a dry season with significantly less rainfall or none at all.
pakistan: Most Pakistanis, according to a Pew Research Center (PEW) poll, favour Sharia law as the official law, and 94 percent of them identify more with religion than nationality compared to Muslims in other nations.
pakistan: By 1942, Britain faced considerable strain during World War II, with India directly threatened by Japanese forces.
pakistan: Pakistan's primary intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), was established within a year of Pakistan's independence in 1947.
pakistan: As of 2022, Pakistan ranks seventh globally in cotton production, with substantial spinning capacity, making it a major exporter of textile products in Asia.
pakistan: Even after the 1947 partition, the Muslims from India kept migrating to Pakistan, especially Karachi and Sindh province.
pakistan: In 326 BCE, Alexander the Great conquered the region by defeating various local rulers, most notably, the King Porus, at Jhelum.
pakistan: Under the leadership of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the 1973 constitution established a parliamentary system, but it was suspended under Zia-ul-Haq's martial law in 1977 and restored, with amendments, in 1985.
pakistan: Pakistan is the sole Muslim nation active in Antarctica research, maintaining its Jinnah Antarctic Research Station since 1992.
pakistan: Immigration, both domestic and international, significantly fuels urban growth.
pakistan: The notable Indo-Islamic structure, the tomb of Shah Rukn-i-Alam in Multan, remains significant.
pakistan: Pakistan maintains a policy of Full spectrum deterrence, considering its nuclear program vital for deterring foreign aggression.
pakistan: Pakistan's political history since independence has been characterised by periods of significant economic and military growth as well as those of political and economic instability.
pakistan: It shares a maritime border with Oman in the Gulf of Oman, and is separated from Tajikistan in the northwest by Afghanistan's narrow Wakhan Corridor.
pakistan: Despite the UN arms embargo on Bosnia, the ISI under General Javed Nasir airlifted anti-tank weapons and missiles to Bosnian mujahideen, shifting the tide in favour of Bosnian Muslims.
pakistan: During the Mughal era, Persian-Islamic design merged with Hindustani art, seen in Lahore's architectural gems like the Badshahi Mosque and the Lahore Fort with the iconic Alamgiri Gate.
pakistan: The Pakistani economy is ranked amongst the world's emerging and growth-leading economies, with a large and rapidly growing middle class.
pakistan: The majority are Muslims (96.35%), followed by Hindus (2.17%) and Christians (1.37%).
pakistan: Islamabad is the nation's capital, while Karachi is its largest city and financial centre.
pakistan: East Pakistan seceded as the new country of Bangladesh in 1971 after a nine-month-long civil war.
pakistan: The remainder of Sindh was acquired in 1843, and subsequently, through a series of wars and treaties, the East India Company, and later, after the Sepoy Mutiny (1857–1858), direct rule by Queen Victoria of the British Empire, acquired most of the region.
pakistan: Pakistan boasts literature in various languages including Urdu, Sindhi, Punjabi, Pashto, Baluchi, Persian, English, and more.
pakistan: Reforms in 2013 mandated Chinese language courses in Sindh, reflecting China's growing influence.
pakistan: Scientific research is integral to Pakistani universities, national laboratories, science parks, and the industry.
pakistan: At its zenith, the Rai dynasty (489–632 CE) ruled Sindh and the surrounding territories.
pakistan: Maulana Shabbir Ahmad Usmani, a respected Deobandi alim (scholar) who held the position of Shaykh al-Islam in Pakistan in 1949, and Maulana Mawdudi of Jamaat-i-Islami played key roles in advocating for an Islamic constitution.
pakistan: Festivals and government initiatives aim to promote Pakistan's cultural heritage.
pakistan: The Shia population in Pakistan was estimated at 42 million in 2019.
pakistan: Geologically, Pakistan lies at the interaction of the Indian and Eurasian tectonic plates within the Indus–Tsangpo Suture Zone, a region of high seismic activity.
pakistan: The World Factbook (2025 ed.).
pakistan: The eras of 1958–1971, 1977–1988, and 1999–2008 witnessed military coups, leading to martial law and military leaders governing de facto as presidents.
pakistan: In Balochistan's xeric regions, date palms and Ephedra are prevalent.
pakistan: In 2025, Pakistan enacted a law setting the minimum legal age for marriage at 18 and introducing penalties for arranging underage marriages; the law is limited to the Islamabad Capital Territory and does not apply nationwide.
pakistan: Pakistan's fashion industry has thrived, blending traditional and modern styles to create a unique cultural identity.
pakistan: During this period, the Vedas, the oldest scriptures of Hinduism, were composed.
pakistan: Islam is the state religion, with freedom of religion guaranteed by the constitution.
pakistan: Sharif contributing to its development.
pakistan: Pakistan facilitated peace talks to help end the conflict.
pakistan: Cricket is the most popular sport in Pakistan, followed by football.
pakistan: Peshawar's Bus Rapid Transit, inaugurated in August 2020, marks the fourth BRT system in Pakistan.
pakistan: Pakistan has strong potential to produce diverse food commodities due to its vast natural resource base across varied ecological and climatic zones.
pakistan: In 2005, Pakistan hosted an international seminar on "Physics in Developing Countries" for the International Year of Physics.
pakistan: Additionally, it established institutions like the Shariat Court and the Council of Islamic Ideology to interpret and apply Islam.
pakistan: However, Karachi-based K-Electric and Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) generate much of the electricity used in Pakistan and collect revenue nationwide.
pakistan: In the 1950s, Pakistan opposed the Soviet Union for geopolitical reasons.
pakistan: Pakistan drew around 6.6 million foreign tourists in 2018.
pakistan: Law enforcement in Pakistan consists of federal and provincial police agencies.
pakistan: Rainfall varies greatly from year to year, with patterns of alternate flooding and drought common.
pakistan: In 1970, Pakistan conducted its first democratic elections since independence, intending to transition from military rule to democracy.
pakistan: Pakistan was among the first nations to establish formal diplomatic ties with China, forging a strong relationship since China's 1962 conflict with India, culminating in a special bond.
pakistan: Before the arrival of Islam beginning in the 8th century, the region of Pakistan was home to a diverse plethora of faiths, including Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Zoroastrianism.
pakistan: The 1960s marked the rise of Pakistan's space program, led by SUPARCO, yielding advancements in rocketry, electronics, and aeronomy.
pakistan: Britain had pledged voluntary independence for India in exchange for support during the war.
pakistan: Pakistan ranks fifth in cotton production, self-sufficient in sugarcane, and the fourth-largest milk producer globally.
pakistan: Migration from India, especially to Karachi, the largest metropolis, and from nearby countries, accelerates urbanisation, posing new political and socio-economic challenges.
pakistan: In 2021, the Federal Shariat Court declared the practice un-Islamic and unconstitutional, reaffirming earlier Supreme Court jurisprudence.
pakistan: Among South Asian countries, Pakistan's GDP growth rate of 2.5% in 2024 was the second lowest after Afghanistan.
pakistan: The Lodi dynasty, the last of the Delhi Sultanate, was replaced by the Mughal Empire (1526–1857 CE).
pakistan: Pakistan chose to remain neutral during Operation Decisive Storm, refraining from sending military support to Saudi Arabia in its offensive against Yemen.
pakistan: During the 1967 Arab-Israel war, Pakistan supported the Arab states and played a key role in securing Iran's backing for the Arab cause both within the U.N.
pakistan: Initiatives since 2007 made English medium education mandatory nationwide.
pakistan: Girls married through this practice are often treated as compensation for a dispute, which places them in a vulnerable social position within the family they marry into.
pakistan: The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee (CJCSC) is the highest-ranking military officer, advising the civilian government.
pakistan: The government invests heavily in information technology projects, focusing on e-government and infrastructure.
pakistan: Sohan halwa, a beloved sweet dish from southern Punjab, is savoured across Pakistan.
pakistan: Pakistan is the 33rd-largest country by area.
pakistan: Mangrove forests dominate the coastal wetlands in the south.
pakistan: Its efforts in supporting independence movements in countries like Indonesia, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, and Eritrea fostered strong ties.
pakistan: In football, Pakistan established the Pakistan Football Federation soon after its creation, and it is known for producing FIFA World Cup balls.
pakistan: This period is marked by prolonged stagflation, political instability, corruption, misgovernment, geopolitical rivalry with India, and the clash between left-wing and right-wing ideologies.
pakistan: The Pakistan government's official chronology claims this as the time when the foundation of Pakistan was laid.
pakistan: The language controversy further exacerbated tensions between Hindus and Muslims.
pakistan: By 1990–2008, city dwellers constituted 36% of Pakistan's population, making it South Asia's most urbanised nation, with over 50% living in towns of 5,000+ inhabitants.
pakistan: Kashmir, a Himalayan region at the northern tip of the Indian subcontinent, was governed as the autonomous princely state of Jammu and Kashmir during the British Raj before the Partition of India in August 1947.
pakistan: In Mountbatten's oval office, the prime ministers of around a dozen major princely states gathered to receive their copies of the plan before its worldwide broadcast.
pakistan: The Pakistan Super League ranks among the top T20 leagues globally.
pakistan: Khaliquzzaman, a prominent Muslim League leader, declared Pakistan's ambition to unite all Muslim countries into Islamistan, a pan-Islamic entity.
pakistan: Military tension between the two countries in the Kargil district led to the Kargil War of 1999, and turmoil in civil-military relations allowed General Pervez Musharraf to take over through a bloodless coup d'état.
pakistan: Karachi Circular Railway, partially revived in November 2020, offers public transit services in the Karachi metropolitan area.
pakistan: India claims the entire Kashmir region based on the Instrument of Accession signed by the princely state's ruler, Maharaja Hari Singh, while Pakistan argues for its Muslim-majority population, and geographical proximity to Pakistan.
pakistan: Following the 1971 war with India, Pakistan hastily developed atomic weapons to deter foreign intervention and entered the atomic age.
pakistan: Fazlul Haque, also known as the Pakistan Resolution.
pakistan: Pakistan's share of global exports averaged 0.14% between 1990 and 2023 and was 0.12% in 2023.
pakistan: Pakistan also has a high number of reported acid attacks, with about 200 incidents annually as of 2023, most victims being women.
pakistan: Under British rule, modern Pakistan was primarily divided into the Sind Division, Punjab Province, and the Baluchistan Agency.
pakistan: Pakistan's diverse geography and climate host a wide array of wildlife.
pakistan: This shift led to a decrease in total rail track from 8,775 kilometres (5,453 miles) in 1990–91 to 7,791 kilometres (4,841 miles) in 2011.
pakistan: Both nations signed a Free Trade Agreement in 2006, with China making its largest investment in Pakistan's history through CPEC.
pakistan: Pakistan boasts numerous renowned folk singers, and the arrival of Afghan refugees in western provinces has sparked interest in Pashto music, despite occasional intolerance.
pakistan: In the south, Karachi stands as the most populous commercial hub along the Indus River.
pakistan: Since the early days of the Iran–Iraq war, President Zia-ul-Haq played an important mediatory role, with Pakistan actively engaging in efforts to end the conflict.
pakistan: Roti, a wheat-based flatbread, accompanies most meals, alongside curry, meat, vegetables, and lentils.
pakistan: It was later included as a preamble to the constitutions of 1956, 1962, and 1973.
pakistan: The transport landscape of Pakistan features various modern transit systems.
pakistan: Post-colonial identity shines through modern landmarks like the Faisal Mosque, Minar-e-Pakistan, and Mazar-e-Quaid.
pakistan: Kearney/FP Globalization Index due to increasing globalisation.
pakistan: Private tube wells and High Yielding Varieties (HYVs) further augmented crop yields.
pakistan: Regional and traditional dress remain significant symbols of native tradition, evolving into both modern and purer forms.
pakistan: The Ali brothers sought to project Pakistan as the natural leader of the Islamic world, partly due to its significant manpower and military strength.
pakistan: Major military operations conducted during this period include Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation al-Mizan, Operation Zalzala, Operation Sherdil, Operation Rah-e-Haq, Operation Rah-e-Rast, and Operation Rah-e-Nijat.
pakistan: Bounded by the Arabian Sea on the south, the Gulf of Oman on the southwest, and the Sir Creek on the southeast, it shares land borders with India to the east; Afghanistan to the west; Iran to the southwest; and China to the northeast.
pakistan: Established in 1947, the armed forces of Pakistan wielded significant influence over national politics.
pakistan: The Lollywood, Punjabi, and Pashto film industry is centered in Karachi, Lahore, and Peshawar.
pakistan: This led to the adoption of the Lahore Resolution of 1940, presented by Sher-e-Bangla A.K.
pakistan: Since independence due to the partition of India, urbanisation has surged for various reasons.
pakistan: As of 2012, 12% of Pakistani Muslims self-identify as non-denominational Muslims.
pakistan: Initially a dominion of the British Commonwealth, Pakistan adopted a republican constitution in 1956 and became an Islamic republic with two geographically separate provinces, East Pakistan and West Pakistan.
pakistan: Additionally, private schools offer a parallel secondary education system based on the curriculum set by the Cambridge International Examinations, with 439 international schools reported in Pakistan.
pakistan: The diverse landscape and climate in Pakistan support a wide range of trees and plants.
pakistan: The Reporters Without Borders has indicated pressure faced by Pakistani reporters, particularly when reporting against the military or government.
pakistan: Popular Sufi poets like Shah Abdul Latif and Bulleh Shah are revered.
pakistan: Zia aligned with Deobandi institutions, exacerbating sectarian tensions with anti-Shia policies.
pakistan: Yahya Khan was replaced by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto as president; the country worked towards promulgating its constitution and putting the country on the road to democracy.
pakistan: Pakistan is a diverse society with estimates suggesting it has between 75 and 85 languages.
pakistan: These developments, alongside Pakistan's creation, didn't receive approval from the United States, with British Prime Minister Clement Attlee expressing a hope for India and Pakistan to reunite.
pakistan: Pakistan's constitution mandates free primary and secondary education, with public universities established in each province, including Punjab University, Sindh University, Peshawar University, Karachi University, and Balochistan University.
pakistan: Pakistan is the site of several ancient cultures, including the 8,500-year-old Neolithic site of Mehrgarh in Balochistan, the Indus Valley Civilisation of the Bronze Age, and the ancient Gandhara civilisation.
pakistan: The creation of Pakistan was never fully accepted by many British leaders including Lord Mountbatten.
pakistan: Clashes with the judicature prompted Gilani's disqualification from the Parliament and as the Prime Minister in June 2012.
pakistan: Following the 2005 Kashmir earthquake, The Guardian highlighted "The top five tourist sites in Pakistan" to boost tourism, featuring destinations like Taxila, Lahore, the Karakoram Highway, Karimabad, and Lake Saiful Muluk.
pakistan: Pakistan's desire for a united Islamic bloc, called Islamistan, wasn't supported by other Muslim governments, though figures like the Grand Mufti of Palestine, Al-Haj Amin al-Husseini, and leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood were drawn to the country.
pakistan: The national poet of Pakistan, Muhammad Iqbal, wrote influential poetry in Urdu and Persian, advocating for Islamic civilisational revival.
pakistan: They fused with the indigenous Harappan culture of the Indus Valley, and elements of the pre-Aryan spiritual traditions were assimilated into the developing Vedic tradition.
pakistan: Around 50,000 Muslim women were abducted and raped by Hindu and Sikh men, while 33,000 Hindu and Sikh women experienced the same fate at the hands of Muslims.
pakistan: Pakistan is designated as an "Iron Brother" by China, emphasising the significance of their close and supportive relationship.
pakistan: Pakistan faces deforestation, hunting, and pollution, with a 2019 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 7.42/10, ranking 41st globally out of 172 countries.
pakistan: In response to India's support for the insurgency in East Pakistan, preemptive strikes on India by Pakistan's air force, navy, and marines sparked a conventional war in 1971 that resulted in an Indian victory and East Pakistan gaining independence as Bangladesh.
pakistan: As of May 2021, Pakistan operates six licensed commercial nuclear power plants.
pakistan: In field hockey, Pakistan holds four Hockey World Cup wins, eight Asian Games gold medals, and three Olympic gold medals.
pakistan: The United States, Turkey, and China maintain close military relations with Pakistan Armed Forces, regularly exporting military equipment and technology transfer.
pakistan: In 2023, Pakistan was the 66th-largest export economy, with a trade deficit of US$21.3 billion.
pakistan: Some Arab countries perceived the 'Islamistan' project as Pakistan's bid to dominate other Muslim states.
pakistan: Another agreement for China's assistance was signed in October 2008, seen as a response to the US–India agreement.
pakistan: The Arab general Muhammad ibn Qasim conquered Sindh and some regions of Punjab in 711 CE.
pakistan: Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan have their own court systems.
pakistan: Pakistan actively participates in the United Nations with a Permanent Representative representing its positions in international politics.
pakistan: President Zia died in a plane crash in 1988, and Benazir Bhutto, daughter of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, was elected as the country's first female Prime Minister.
pakistan: Pakistanis wear a variety of fabrics like silk, chiffon, and cotton.
pakistan: Historically, Pakistani literature consisted mainly of lyric, religious, and folkloric works, later diversifying under colonial influence into prose fiction, now widely embraced.
pakistan: British architectural influence persists in structures across Lahore, Peshawar, and Karachi.
pakistan: The main branches include the Army, Navy, and Air Force, supported by numerous paramilitaries.
pakistan: Additionally, around 2 million Bengalis and half a million undocumented individuals, purportedly from Myanmar, reside in Pakistan.
pakistan: General Zia-ul-Haq, after seizing power, committed to establishing an Islamic state and enforcing sharia law.
pakistan: In the British colonial period, Indo-European buildings emerged, blending European and Indian-Islamic styles.
pakistan: The BBC describes Pakistani media as "among the most outspoken in South Asia".
pakistan: The semi-industrialised economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, and industrial growth in Pakistan benefits significantly from agricultural expansion.
pakistan: It's responsible for safeguarding the constitution.
pakistan: The agriculture sector employs 43.5% of the labour force and is a major source of foreign exchange.
pakistan: The KANUPP-I, Pakistan's first commercial nuclear power plant, was supplied by Canada in 1971.
pakistan: The Ahmadis are a minority, officially considered non-Muslims.
pakistan: Pakistani politics revolves around a blend of socialism, conservatism, and the third way, with the three main political parties being the conservative Pakistan Muslim League (N), socialist Pakistani People's Party, and centrist Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf.
pakistan: The Chief Secretary, appointed by the Prime Minister, heads the provincial bureaucracy.
pakistan: Pakistan was lauded as the top nation for infrastructure development in South Asia during the 2016 annual meetings of the IMF and World Bank.
pakistan: Musharraf governed Pakistan as chief executive from 1999 to 2002 and as president from 2001 to 2008—a period of enlightenment, social liberalism, extensive economic reforms, and direct involvement in the US-led war on terrorism.
pakistan: During the 1970s, Pakistan acted as an intermediary in U.S.-China rapprochement, facilitating US President Richard Nixon's historic visit to China.
pakistan: The lack of vegetative cover, severe climate, and grazing impact on deserts have endangered wild animals.
pakistan: Although Bollywood films were banned from public cinemas from 1965 to 2008, they remained influential in Pakistani popular culture.
pakistan: Pakistan is a developing country, and part of the Next Eleven, poised to become one of the world's largest economies in the 21st century, alongside the BRIC countries.
pakistan: Pakistan now boasts a vast network of domestic, privately owned 24-hour electronic news media and cable television channels.
pakistan: The Shalwar kameez is Pakistan's national dress, worn in all provinces: Punjab, Sindh, Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Azad Kashmir.
pakistan: It is the fifth-most populous country, with a population of over 241.5 million, having the second-largest Muslim population as of 2023.
pakistan: Saudi Arabia also holds importance in Pakistan's foreign relations.
pakistan: Pakistan has been an active participant in UN peacekeeping missions, playing a major role in operations like the rescue mission in Mogadishu, Somalia, in 1993.
pakistan: Since 1989, thousands of Kashmiri Muslim refugees fled to Pakistan, alleging rape and forced displacement by Indian soldiers.
pakistan: Tensions with India led to Pakistan's 1998 underground nuclear tests, making it the seventh country to possess such weapons.
pakistan: After four years of unresolved conflict between rival Mujahideen groups, Pakistan helped establish the Taliban as a stabilising force.
pakistan: Ceremonial heads of provinces, the Provincial Governors, are appointed by the President based on the binding advice of the Prime Minister.
pakistan: Head of State: The ceremonial head of the state and civilian commander-in-chief of the Pakistan Armed Forces is the President, elected by an Electoral College.
pakistan: Pakistani music encompasses diverse forms, from provincial folk music and traditional styles like Qawwali and Ghazal Gayaki to modern fusions of traditional and western music.
pakistan: According to a 2025 report, some newspapers have faced financial pressure—such as withdrawal of government advertisements—for publishing content critical of government policies.
pakistan: After adopting a presidential system in 1962, Pakistan witnessed significant growth until the second war with India in 1965, resulting in an economic downturn and widespread public discontent in 1967.
pakistan: When Mountbatten was asked by Collins and Lapierre if he would have sabotaged Pakistan had he known that Jinnah was dying of tuberculosis, he replied 'most probably'.
pakistan: Northern areas of Pakistan, including Azad Kashmir, lie along the northern edge of the Indian Plate and are prone to powerful earthquakes.
pakistan: During the Soviet–Afghan War, Pakistan's intelligence community, mostly the ISI, coordinated US resources to support Afghan mujahideen and foreign fighters against Soviet presence.
pakistan: Pakistan scored 27 out of 100 on the Corruption Perceptions Index in 2024, ranking 135th out of 180 countries in the assessment of perceived public-sector corruption.
pakistan: Each year, the Pakistan Academy of Sciences and the government invite scientists worldwide to the International Nathiagali Summer College on Physics.
pakistan: Pakistan also sent 5,000 troops as part of a US-led coalition for the defense of Saudi Arabia during the Gulf War.
pakistan: In 2025, Pakistan ranked 158 out of 180 countries in the Press Freedom Index by Reporters Without Borders, highlighting restrictions on freedom of the press.
pakistan: However, this pledge included a clause stating that no part of British India would be compelled to join the resulting dominion, which could be interpreted as support for an independent Muslim nation.
pakistan: The United Nations was involved in resolving the conflict, leading to a ceasefire in 1949 and the establishment of the Line of Control (LoC) as a de facto border.
pakistan: The National Assembly historically completed its first full five-year term on 15 November 2007.
pakistan: In the following four decades, Pakistan has been ruled by governments that alternated between civilian and military, democratic and authoritarian, relatively secular and Islamist.
pakistan: Pakistan's landscapes vary from coastal plains to glaciated mountains, offering deserts, forests, hills, and plateaus.
pakistan: Though land and water resources haven't increased proportionately, productivity gains, especially from the Green Revolution in the late 1960s and 1970s, significantly boosted wheat and rice yields.
pakistan: Despite constituting only 4.6% of the total road length, these north–south links manage 85% of the nation's traffic.
pakistan: Pakistan, the only country established in the name of Islam, had overwhelming support among Muslims, especially in provinces like the United Provinces, where Muslims were a minority.
pakistan: Shias represent between 5–25%.
pakistan: Four districts – Umerkot, Tharparkar, Mirpurkhas, and Sanghar – have over half of Pakistan's Hindus.
pakistan: National Highways & Motorway Police (NHMP): Enforces traffic laws and ensures safety on Pakistan's inter-provincial motorway network.
