password: There is often an increase in the number of people who note down the password and leave it where it can easily be found, as well as help desk calls to reset a forgotten password.
password: The existence of password cracking tools allows attackers to easily recover poorly chosen passwords.
password: While these rules have long been widespread, they have also long been seen as annoying and ineffective by both users and cybersecurity experts.
password: The Imperva Application Defense Center (ADC) did an analysis on the strength of the passwords.
password: However, all-lowercase passwords are more secure per keystroke than mixed capitalization passwords.
password: Traditionally, passwords were expected to be memorized, but the large number of password-protected services that a typical individual accesses can make memorization of unique passwords for each service impractical.
password: In modern times, user names and passwords are commonly used by people during a log in process that controls access to protected computer operating systems, mobile phones, cable TV decoders, automated teller machines (ATMs), etc.
password: In 2013, Google released a list of the most common password types, all of which are considered insecure because they are too easy to guess (especially after researching an individual on social media), which includes:
password: American paratroopers also famously used a device known as a "cricket" on D-Day in place of a password system as a temporarily unique method of identification; one metallic click given by the device in lieu of a password was to be met by two clicks in reply.
password: Some of the more stringent policy enforcement measures can pose a risk of alienating users, possibly decreasing security as a result.
password: Having passwords that are only valid once makes a number of potential attacks ineffective.
password: examine the effect of advice given to users about a good choice of password.
password: Moving a step further, augmented systems for password-authenticated key agreement (e.g., AMP, B-SPEKE, PAK-Z, SRP-6) avoid both the conflict and limitation of hash-based methods.
password: The user's identity is verified by asking questions and comparing the answers to ones previously stored (i.e., when the account was opened).
password: If any one of them is missing, he makes inquiry at once, as he knows by the marks from what quarter the tablet has not returned, and whoever is responsible for the stoppage meets with the punishment he merits.
password: According to a 2017 rewrite of this NIST report, a number of websites have rules that actually have the opposite effect on the security of their users.
password: If a cryptographic hash function is well designed, it is computationally infeasible to reverse the function to recover a plaintext password.
password: Roger Needham invented the now-common approach of storing only a "hashed" form of the plaintext password.
password: If it passes through intermediate systems during its travels, it will probably be stored on them as well, at least for some time, and may be copied to backup, cache or history files on any of these systems.
password: In a 2017 article in The Wall Street Journal, Burr reported he regrets these proposals and made a mistake when he recommended them.
password: Cryptologists and computer scientists often refer to the strength or 'hardness' in terms of entropy.
password: Studies on this subject have been made to determine their usability in the real world.
password: The NIST recommends people use longer phrases as passwords (and advises websites to raise the maximum password length) instead of hard-to-remember passwords with "illusory complexity" such as "pA55w+rd".
password: These tools work by hashing possible passwords and comparing the result of each guess to the actual password hashes.
password: Requiring more than one authentication system, such as two-factor authentication (something a user has and something the user knows).
password: Polybius describes the system for the distribution of watchwords in the Roman military as follows:
password: Passwords that are used to generate cryptographic keys (e.g., for disk encryption or Wi-Fi security) can also be subjected to high-rate guessing, known as password cracking.
password: This may be why over 20 years after this recurring idea started, passwords are still being used, despite attempts by technology businesses to change this.
password: In September 2001, after the deaths of 658 of their 960 New York employees in the September 11 attacks, financial services firm Cantor Fitzgerald through Microsoft broke the passwords of deceased employees to gain access to files needed for servicing client accounts.
password: A modified version of the DES algorithm was used as the basis for the password hashing algorithm in early Unix systems.
password: That jeopardizes every account on the system.
password: Not displaying the password on the display screen as it is being entered or obscuring it as it is typed by using asterisks (*) or bullets (•).
password: On 11 July 2011, Booz Allen Hamilton, a consulting firm that does work for the Pentagon, had their servers hacked by Anonymous and leaked the same day.
password: Paul Grassi, one of the 2017 NIST report's authors, further elaborated: "Everyone knows that an exclamation point is a 1, or an I, or the last character of a password.
password: Passwords should be chosen so that they are hard for an attacker to guess and hard for an attacker to discover using any of the available automatic attack schemes.
password: Requiring minimum password lengths.
password: One system requires users to select a series of faces as a password, utilizing the human brain's ability to recall faces easily.
password: If a new password is passed to the system in unencrypted form, security can be lost (e.g., via wiretapping) before the new password can even be installed in the password database and if the new password is given to a compromised employee, little is gained.
password: The challenge and response were changed every three days.
password: Such practices can reduce the number of passwords that must be memorized, such as the password manager's master password, to a more manageable number.
password: As yet, no satisfactory standard has been developed.
password: Enforcing a password policy to increase password strength and security.
password: Using encrypted tunnels or password-authenticated key agreement to prevent access to transmitted passwords via network attacks
Limiting the number of allowed failures within a given time period (to prevent repeated password guessing).
password: The hash value is created by applying a cryptographic hash function to a string consisting of the submitted password and, in multiple implementations, another value known as a salt.
password: Similarly typing the password one keyboard row higher is a common trick known to attackers.
password: Time-synchronized one-time passwords are similar in some ways to single-use passwords, but the value to be entered is displayed on a small (generally pocketable) item and changes every minute or so.
password: Assigning randomly chosen passwords.
password: At the time the attacker was discovered, 47,642 passwords had already been cracked.
password: Passwords were stored in cleartext in the database and were extracted through a SQL injection vulnerability.
password: Studies of production computer systems have consistently shown that a large fraction of all user-chosen passwords are readily guessed automatically.
password: The name of a pet, child, family member, or significant other
Anniversary dates and birthdays
Birthplace
Name of a favorite holiday
Something related to a favorite sports team
The word "password"
password: Many systems store a cryptographic hash of the password.
password: A hacker named "Peace" later offered additional passwords for sale.
password: Identity management systems are increasingly used to automate the issuance of replacements for lost passwords, a feature called self-service password reset.
password: Millions of the passwords were later posted on a Russian forum.
password: If it is carried as packeted data over the Internet, anyone able to watch the packets containing the logon information can snoop with a low probability of detection.
password: The reasons given often include reference to the usability as well as security problems of passwords.
password: Instead of user passwords, access control is based on the user's access to a network resource.
password: However, asking users to remember a password consisting of a "mix of uppercase and lowercase characters" is similar to asking them to remember a sequence of bits: hard to remember, and only a little bit harder to crack (e.g.
password: Since most email is sent as plaintext, a message containing a password is readable without effort during transport by any eavesdropper.
password: Password management software can also store passwords relatively safely, in an encrypted file sealed with a single master password.
password: The security of a password-protected system depends on several factors.
password: In 2019, Microsoft stated that the practice is "ancient and obsolete".
password: Single sign-on technology is claimed to eliminate the need for having multiple passwords.
password: The risk of interception of passwords sent over the Internet can be reduced by, among other approaches, using cryptographic protection.
password: A poorly designed hash function can make attacks feasible even if a strong password is chosen.
password: The necessary keys are usually too large to memorize (but see proposal Passmaze) and must be stored on a local computer, security token or portable memory device, such as a USB flash drive or even floppy disk.
password: Passwordless authentication in which a user can log in to a computer system without entering (and having to remember) a password or any other knowledge-based secret.
password: Single-use passwords.
password: In the absence of other vulnerabilities, such systems can be effectively secure with relatively simple passwords if they have been well chosen and are not easily guessed.
password: If an attacker gets access to the file of hashed passwords guessing can be done offline, rapidly testing candidate passwords against the true password's hash value.
password: Some password reset questions ask for personal information that could be found on social media, such as mother's maiden name.
password: The data was leaked as part of Operation AntiSec, a movement that includes Anonymous, LulzSec, as well as other hacking groups and individuals.
password: On 5 June 2012, a security breach at LinkedIn resulted in 117 million stolen passwords and emails.
password: If an attacker gains access to the password file, then if it is stored as plain text, no cracking is necessary.
password: The private key may be stored on a cloud service provider, and activated by the use of a password or two-factor authentication.
password: However, if someone may have had access to the password through some means, such as sharing a computer or breaching a different site, changing the password limits the window for abuse.
password: Less extreme measures include extortion, rubber hose cryptanalysis, and side channel attack.
password: The overall system must be designed for sound security, with protection against computer viruses, man-in-the-middle attacks and the like.
password: Sentries would challenge those wishing to enter an area to supply a password or watchword, and would only allow a person or group to pass if they knew the password.
password: Changing a password will not prevent abuse in most cases, since the abuse would often be immediately noticeable.
password: If it is reversibly encrypted then if the attacker gets the decryption key along with the file no cracking is necessary, while if he fails to get the key cracking is not possible.
password: Technicians used brute-force attacks, and interviewers contacted families to gather personalized information that might reduce the search time for weaker passwords.
password: A salt prevents attackers from easily building a list of hash values for common passwords and prevents password cracking efforts from scaling across all users.
password: The system was based on a simulated Hagelin rotor crypto machine, and first appeared in 6th Edition Unix in 1974.
password: In some implementations the user is required to pick from a series of images in the correct sequence to gain access.
password: Having a personally designed algorithm for generating obscure passwords is another good method.
password: The system merely compares the password entered by the user with this unprotected list when they log in.
password: Similarly, the more stringent the password requirements, such as "have a mix of uppercase and lowercase letters and digits" or "change it monthly", the greater the degree to which users will subvert the system.
password: Cognitive passwords use question and answer cue/response pairs to verify identity.
password: When a user types in a password on such a system, the password handling software runs through a cryptographic hash algorithm, and if the hash value generated from the user's entry matches the hash stored in the password database, the user is permitted access.
password: In addition, when the hash is used as a shared secret, an attacker does not need the original password to authenticate remotely; they only need the hash.
password: Similar arguments were made by Forbes, to not change passwords as often as some "experts" advise, due to the same limitations in human memory.
password: (He nevertheless maintained, based on these data, that the general quality of passwords has improved over the years—for example, average length was up to eight characters from under seven in previous surveys, and less than 4% were dictionary words.)
password: This problem is exacerbated by also reusing usernames, and by websites requiring email logins, as it makes it easier for an attacker to track a single user across multiple sites.
password: It has been argued by Redmond researchers Dinei Florencio and Cormac Herley, together with Paul C.
password: To manage the proliferation of passwords, some users employ the same password for multiple accounts, a dangerous practice since a data breach in one account could compromise the rest.
password: This presents a substantial security risk, because an attacker needs to only compromise a single site in order to gain access to other sites the victim uses.
password: A memorized secret consisting of a sequence of words or other text separated by spaces is sometimes called a passphrase.
password: Despite its name, a password does not need to be an actual word; indeed, a non-word (in the dictionary sense) may be harder to guess, which is a desirable property of passwords.
password: Password strength is the likelihood that a password cannot be guessed or discovered, and varies with the attack algorithm used.
password: After the limit is reached, further attempts will fail (including correct password attempts) until the beginning of the next time period.
password: More sophisticated factors include such things as hardware tokens and biometric security.
password: Password cracking tools can operate by brute force (i.e.
password: We are simply fooling the database that stores passwords into thinking the user did something good."
Pieris Tsokkis and Eliana Stavrou were able to identify some bad password construction strategies through their research and development of a password generator tool.
password: Passwords easily discovered are termed weak or vulnerable; passwords difficult or impossible to discover are considered strong.
password: The user's password was used as a key to encrypt a fixed value.
password: If the attacker finds a match, they know that their guess is the actual password for the associated user.
password: Separate logins are also often used for accountability, for example to know who changed a piece of data.
password: They came up with eight categories of password construction strategies based on exposed password lists, password cracking tools, and online reports citing the most used passwords.
password: A password, sometimes called a passcode, is secret data, typically a string of characters, usually used to confirm a user's identity.
password: Passwords in military use evolved to include not just a password, but a password and a counterpassword; for example in the opening days of the Battle of Normandy, paratroopers of the U.S.
password: The most widely used is the Transport Layer Security (TLS, previously called SSL) feature built into most current Internet browsers.
password: MD5 and SHA1 are frequently used cryptographic hash functions, but they are not recommended for password hashing unless they are used as part of a larger construction such as in PBKDF2.
password: The crypt algorithm used a 12-bit salt value so that each user's hash was unique and iterated the DES algorithm 25 times to make the hash function slower, both measures intended to frustrate automated guessing attacks.
password: While some believe that graphical passwords would be harder to crack, others suggest that people will be just as likely to pick common images or sequences as they are to pick common passwords.
password: (Some legacy operating systems, including early versions of Unix and Windows, limited passwords to an 8 character maximum, reducing security.)
Requiring users to re-enter their password after a period of inactivity (a semi log-off policy).
password: This is partly because users are more willing to tell another person (who may not be authorized) a shared password than one exclusively for their use.
password: Nowadays, it is a common practice for computer systems to hide passwords as they are typed.
password: He also reported that the single most common password was password1, confirming yet again the general lack of informed care in choosing passwords among users.
password: LinkedIn undertook a mandatory reset of all compromised accounts.
password: A study conducted by Ofcom and published on April 2, 2026, found that 26% of online adults reuse passwords, and that 13% of those adults had had their social media or email accounts hacked.
password: Bonneau et al.
password: More secure systems store each password in a cryptographically protected form, so access to the actual password will still be difficult for a snooper who gains internal access to the system, while validation of user access attempts remains possible.
password: Some are inadequate in practice, and in any case few have become universally available for users seeking a more secure alternative.
password: Access controls based on public-key cryptography e.g.
password: This includes complex composition rules as well as forced password changes after certain periods of time.
password: A user prevented from using the password "password" may, if required to include a number and uppercase letter, simply choose "Password1".
password: The main storage methods for passwords are plain text, hashed, hashed and salted, and reversibly encrypted.
password: These latter are obliged to deliver the tablet to the tribunes before dark.
password: Some systems impose a time-out of several seconds after a small number (e.g., three) of failed password entry attempts, also known as throttling.
password: LM hash is a widely deployed and insecure example.
password: This method is extremely dangerous because anyone who manages to access the password storage can see every user's password right away.
password: Using client-side encryption will only protect transmission from the mail handling system server to the client machine.
password: If we use these well-known tricks, we aren't fooling any adversary.
password: If it is hashed but not salted then it is vulnerable to rainbow table attacks (which are more efficient than cracking).
password: Previous or subsequent relays of the email will not be protected and the email will probably be stored on multiple computers, certainly on the originating and receiving computers, most often in clear text.
password: According to Bruce Schneier, examining data from a 2006 phishing attack, 55% of MySpace passwords would be crackable in 8 hours using a commercially available Password Recovery Toolkit capable of testing 200,000 passwords per second in 2006.
password: In most common implementations users are asked to enter their public identifier (username, phone number, email address etc.) and then complete the authentication process by providing a secure proof of identity through a registered device or token.
password: Others argue longer passwords provide more security (e.g., entropy) than shorter passwords with a wide variety of characters.
password: Attempting to crack passwords by trying as many possibilities as time and money permit is a brute-force attack.
password: Email is sometimes used to distribute passwords but this is generally an insecure method.
password: In June 2011, NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) experienced a security breach that led to the public release of first and last names, usernames, and passwords for more than 11,000 registered users of their e-bookshop.
password: They reviewed these in respect of usability, deployability, and security.
password: They have, however, been widely implemented in personal online banking, where they are known as Transaction Authentication Numbers (TANs).
password: A related method, rather more efficient in most cases, is a dictionary attack.
password: systematically compared web passwords to other technical solutions that were alternatives.
password: Asking users to use "both letters and digits" will often lead to easy-to-guess substitutions such as 'E' → '3' and 'I' → '1', substitutions that are well known to attackers.
password: In general, a password is a sequence of characters including letters, digits, or other symbols.
password: As a result, some security experts recommend either making up one's own questions or giving false answers.
password: So far, graphical passwords are promising, but are not widely used.
password: Security in such situations depends on using passwords or passphrases of adequate complexity, making such an attack computationally infeasible for the attacker.
password: Some systems require characters from various character classes in a password—for example, "must have at least one uppercase and at least one lowercase letter".
password: Single passwords are also much less convenient to change because multiple people need to be told at the same time, and they make removal of a particular user's access more difficult, as for instance on graduation or resignation.
password: "After typing PASSWORD, the system turns off the printing mechanism, if possible, so that the user may type in his password with privacy." In the early 1970s, Robert Morris developed a system of storing login passwords in a hashed form as part of the Unix operating system.
password: More recently, multiple security experts such as Bruce Schneier recommend that people use passwords that are too complicated to memorize, write them down on paper, and keep them in a wallet.
password: Password reuse can be avoided or minimized by using mnemonic techniques, writing passwords down on paper, or using a password manager.
password: One survey concluded that the average user has around 100 passwords.
password: Passwords have been used with computers since the earliest days of computing.
password: Lists of common passwords are also typically tested.
password: Another graphical password solution creates a one-time password using a randomly generated grid of images.
password: 101st Airborne Division used a password—flash—which was presented as a challenge, and answered with the correct response—thunder.
password: Some systems, such as PGP and Wi-Fi WPA, apply a computation-intensive hash to the password to slow such attacks, in a technique known as key stretching.
password: Introducing a delay between password submission attempts to slow down automated password guessing programs.
password: It often accompanies arguments that the replacement of passwords by a more secure means of authentication is both necessary and imminent.
password: Their analysis showed that most alternatives do better than passwords on security, some do better and some worse with respect to usability, while every alternative does worse than passwords on deployability.
password: In particular, attackers can quickly recover passwords that are short, dictionary words, simple variations on dictionary words, or that use easily guessable patterns.
password: Usually, a system must provide a way to change a password, either because a user believes the current password has been (or might have been) compromised, or as a precautionary measure.
password: These latter, more specific rules were largely based on a 2003 report by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), authored by Bill Burr.
password: Using the terminology of the NIST Digital Identity Guidelines, the secret is held by a party called the claimant while the party verifying the identity of the claimant is called the verifier.
password: If the password is carried as electrical signals on unsecured physical wiring between the user access point and the central system controlling the password database, it is subject to snooping by wiretapping methods.
password: They found that passwords based on thinking of a phrase and taking the first letter of each word are just as memorable as naively selected passwords, and just as hard to crack as randomly generated passwords.
password: So that if all those issued are returned, the tribune knows that the watchword has been given to all the maniples, and has passed through all on its way back to him.
password: "The password is dead" is a recurring idea in computer security.
password: Should a record of accounts and passwords be prepared, care must be taken to ensure that the records are secure, to prevent theft or fraud.
password: Further, the message will be stored as plaintext on at least two computers: the sender's and the recipient's.
password: PassWindow one-time passwords are used as single-use passwords, but the dynamic characters to be entered are visible only when a user superimposes a unique printed visual key over a server-generated challenge image shown on the user's screen.
password: As an alternative, users should have the option to show or hide passwords as they type them.
password: These programs are sometimes used by system administrators to detect weak passwords proposed by users.
password: Allowing passwords of adequate length.
password: AntiSec aims to expose personal, sensitive, and restricted information to the world, using any means necessary.
password: There are several programs available for password attack (or even auditing and recovery by systems personnel) such as L0phtCrack, John the Ripper, and Cain; some of which use password design vulnerabilities (as found in the Microsoft LANManager system) to increase efficiency.
password: Combined with forced periodic password changes, this can lead to passwords that are difficult to remember but easy to crack.
password: Such schemes do not relieve users and administrators from choosing reasonable single passwords, nor system designers or administrators from ensuring that private access control information passed among systems enabling single sign-on is secure against attack.
password: Combining two or more unrelated words and altering some of the letters to special characters or numbers is another good method, but a single dictionary word is not.
password: The most secure do not store passwords at all, but use a one-way derivation, such as a polynomial, modulus, or an advanced hash function.
password: The hacker then leaked the full list of the 32 million passwords (with no other identifiable information) to the Internet.
password: This claim has been made by a number of people at least since 2004.
password: A passphrase is similar to a password in usage, but the former is generally longer for added security.
password: Some websites include the user-selected password in an unencrypted confirmation e-mail message, with the obvious increased vulnerability.
password: Most users find single-use passwords extremely inconvenient.
password: When the claimant successfully demonstrates knowledge of the password to the verifier through an established authentication protocol, the verifier can infer the claimant's identity.
password: There are several other techniques in use.
password: Non-text-based passwords, such as graphical passwords or mouse-movement based passwords.
password: only 128 times harder to crack for 7-letter passwords, less if the user simply capitalises one of the letters).
password: The purpose of this measure is to prevent bystanders from reading the password; however, some argue that this practice may lead to mistakes and stress, encouraging users to choose weak passwords.
password: It originally proposed the practice of using numbers, obscure characters and capital letters and updating regularly.
password: Thus, of the common storage formats for passwords only when passwords have been salted and hashed is cracking both necessary and possible.
password: Such policies usually provoke user protest and foot-dragging at best and hostility at worst.
password: Because of these issues, there is some debate as to whether password aging is effective.
password: Envaulting technology is a password-free way to secure data on removable storage devices such as USB flash drives.
password: As most home users only perform a small number of transactions each week, the single-use issue has not led to intolerable customer dissatisfaction in this case.
password: A later version of his algorithm, known as crypt(3), used a 12-bit salt and invoked a modified form of the DES algorithm 25 times to reduce the risk of pre-computed dictionary attacks.
password: If the permissible characters are constrained to be numeric, the corresponding secret is sometimes called a personal identification number (PIN).
password: Biometric methods promise authentication based on unalterable personal characteristics, but as of 2008 have high error rates and require additional hardware to scan, for example, fingerprints, irises, etc.
password: In a dictionary attack, all words in one or more dictionaries are tested.
password: Physical security issues are also a concern, from deterring shoulder surfing to more sophisticated physical threats such as video cameras and keyboard sniffers.
password: $ is an S or a 5.
password: These categories include user-related information, keyboard combinations and patterns, placement strategy, word processing, substitution, capitalization, append dates, and a combination of the previous categories.
password: Each time the user is required to authenticate, they look for the images that fit their pre-chosen categories and enter the randomly generated alphanumeric character that appears in the image to form the one-time password.
password: In December 2009, a major password breach of the Rockyou.com website occurred that led to the release of 32 million passwords.
password: Less risky alternatives include the use of password managers, single sign-on systems and simply keeping paper lists of less critical passwords.
password: For example, a simple two-factor login might send a text message, e-mail, automated phone call, or similar alert whenever a login attempt is made, possibly supplying a code that must be entered in addition to a password.
password: federal government
password: Most browsers alert the user of a TLS/SSL-protected exchange with a server by displaying a closed lock icon, or some other sign, when TLS is in use.
password: On a number of systems (including Unix-type systems) doing remote authentication, the shared secret usually becomes the hashed form and has the serious limitation of exposing passwords to offline guessing attacks.
password: All do the same until it reaches the first maniples, those encamped near the tents of the tribunes.
password: A typical computer user has passwords for multiple purposes: logging into accounts, retrieving e-mail, accessing applications, databases, networks, websites, and even reading the morning newspaper online.
password: More recent Unix or Unix-like systems (e.g., Linux or the various BSD systems) use more secure password hashing algorithms such as PBKDF2, bcrypt, and scrypt, which have large salts and an adjustable cost or number of iterations.
password: Additionally, accounts belonging to users who have reused their passwords on other websites or services may also be compromised, which could result in a much larger security breach.
password: CTSS had a LOGIN command that requested a user password.
password: Employ a password blacklist to block the use of weak, easily guessed passwords
Providing an alternative to keyboard entry (e.g., spoken passwords, or biometric identifiers).
password: Users may use simpler passwords or develop variation patterns on a consistent theme to keep their passwords memorable.
password: Alternatives to passwords include biometrics, two-factor authentication or single sign-on, Microsoft's Cardspace, the Higgins project, the Liberty Alliance, NSTIC, the FIDO Alliance and various Identity 2.0 proposals.
password: The Compatible Time-Sharing System (CTSS), an operating system introduced at MIT in 1961, was the first computer system to implement password login.
password: Some specific password management issues that must be considered when thinking about, choosing, and handling a password follow.
password: The stored data—sometimes called the "password verifier" or the "password hash"—is often stored in Modular Crypt Format or RFC 2307 hash format, sometimes in the /etc/passwd file or the /etc/shadow file.
password: Multi-factor authentication schemes combine passwords (as "knowledge factors") with one or more other means of authentication to make authentication more secure and less vulnerable to compromised passwords.
password: Many websites enforce standard rules such as minimum and maximum length, but also frequently include composition rules such as featuring at least one capital letter and at least one number/symbol.
password: Graphical passwords are an alternative means of authentication for log-in intended to be used in place of conventional password; they use images, graphics or colours instead of letters, digits or special characters.
password: An augmented system allows a client to prove knowledge of the password to a server, where the server knows only a (not exactly) hashed password, and where the unhashed password is required to gain access.
password: Some governments have national authentication frameworks that define requirements for user authentication to government services, including requirements for passwords.
password: trying every possible combination of characters) or by hashing every word from a list; large lists of possible passwords in multiple languages are widely available on the Internet.
password: Lists of common passwords are widely available and can make password attacks efficient.
password: For example, Columbia University found 22% of user passwords could be recovered with little effort.
password: Effective access control provisions may force extreme measures on criminals seeking to acquire a password or biometric token.
password: However, this is vulnerable to a form of denial of service attack.
password: In The Memorability and Security of Passwords, Jeff Yan et al.
password: An attacker can, however, use widely available tools to attempt to guess the passwords.
