philippines: Water supply and sanitation outside Metro Manila is provided by the government through local water districts in cities or towns.
philippines: Philippine waters sustain the cultivation of fish, crustaceans, oysters, and seaweeds.
philippines: The country has bilateral FTAs with Japan, South Korea, and four European states: Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
philippines: The country suffered an energy crisis as a result of the conflict in Middle East.
philippines: Arabic is primarily taught in Mindanao Islamic schools.
philippines: It is thought to have the world's second-largest gold deposits (after South Africa), large copper deposits, and the world's largest deposits of palladium.
philippines: Philippine ports opened to world trade during the 19th century, and Filipino society began to change.
philippines: After the fall of the First Philippine Republic in 1902, an American civilian government was established with the Philippine Organic Act.
philippines: Most native languages are part of the Philippine branch of the Malayo-Polynesian languages, which is a branch of the Austronesian language family.
philippines: On July 4, 1946, during the presidency of Manuel Roxas, the country's independence was recognized by the United States with the Treaty of Manila.
philippines: However, poor management and law enforcement, opposition from indigenous communities, and past environmental damage have left these resources largely untapped.
philippines: The bicameral Congress is composed of the Senate (the upper house, with members elected to a six-year term) and the House of Representatives (the lower house, with members elected to a three-year term).
philippines: The official title "Republic of the Philippines" was included in the 1935 constitution as the name of the future independent state, and in all succeeding constitutional revisions.
philippines: The Philippines is a unitary state with the system being in place ever since spanish colonialization, with the exception of the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (BARMM).
philippines: Buildings from the Spanish and American periods can be seen in Iloilo, especially in Calle Real.
philippines: British forces occupied Manila from 1762 to 1764 during the Seven Years' War.
philippines: Folk literature was relatively unaffected by colonial influence until the 19th century due to Spanish indifference.
philippines: The national martial art is Arnis.
philippines: The Philippine resistance and Allied troops defeated the Japanese in 1944 and 1945.
philippines: The modern Chinese Filipinos are well-integrated into Filipino society.
philippines: It shares maritime borders with Taiwan to the north, Japan to the northeast, Palau to the east and southeast, Indonesia to the south, Malaysia to the southwest, Vietnam to the west, and China to the northwest.
philippines: Census data from 2020 found that 78.8 percent of the population professed Roman Catholicism.
philippines: Metro Manila is served by Manila Water and Maynilad Water Services.
philippines: Transportation in the Philippines is by road, air, rail and water.
philippines: From 1565 to 1821, the Philippines was governed as a territory of the Mexico City-based Viceroyalty of New Spain; it was then administered from Madrid after the Mexican War of Independence.
philippines: The first Austronesians reached the Philippines from Taiwan around 2200 BC, settling the Batanes Islands (where they built stone fortresses known as ijangs) and northern Luzon.
philippines: Other, more-militant groups such as Abu Sayyaf and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters have kidnapped foreigners for ransom, particularly in the Sulu Archipelago and Maguindanao, but their presence has been reduced.
philippines: The Philippines sends many Christian missionaries around the world, and is a training center for foreign priests and nuns.
philippines: In 2015, the Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation noted that 74 percent of the Philippine population had access to improved sanitation and "good progress" had been made between 1990 and 2015.
philippines: The Philippines has a democratic government, a constitutional republic with a presidential system.
philippines: The first recorded sculptor in the Philippines is Juan de los Santos (1590 –1660) known for making retablos.
philippines: As of 2020, the country's main export markets were China, the United States, Japan, Hong Kong, and Singapore; primary exports included integrated circuits, office machinery and parts, electrical transformers, insulated wiring, and semiconductors.
philippines: Administration of the Philippines was considered a drain on the economy of New Spain, and abandoning it or trading it for other territory was debated.
philippines: In 2022, the total water withdrawals increased to 91 billion cubic meters (3.2×10^12 cu ft) from 89 billion cubic meters (3.1×10^12 cu ft) in 2021 and the total expenditures on water were amounted to ₱144.81 billion.
philippines: Polities founded in the Philippines between the 10th and 16th centuries include Maynila, Tondo, Namayan, Pangasinan, Caboloan, Cebu, Butuan, Maguindanao, Lanao, Sulu, and Ma-i.
philippines: Forest cover declined from 70 percent of the Philippines' total land area in 1900 to about 18.3 percent in 1999.
philippines: The 1962–1971 decade saw a decline in quality films, although the commercial film industry expanded until the 1980s.
philippines: Lack of recognition by the United States led to an outbreak of hostilities that, after refusal by the U.S.
philippines: Filipinos tend to prefer robust flavors, centered on sweet, salty, and sour combinations.
philippines: The Roman Catholic church exerts considerable but waning influence in political affairs, although a constitutional provision for the separation of Church and State exists.
philippines: Political issues following Marcos' ouster and safety concerns after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster prevented the plant from being commissioned, and plans to operate it remain controversial.
philippines: From its Malayo-Polynesian origins, traditional Philippine cuisine has evolved since the 16th century.
philippines: The family is central to Philippine society; norms such as loyalty, maintaining close relationships and care for elderly parents are ingrained in Philippine society.
philippines: This gave women the right to vote and participate in the country's political processes.
philippines: Jade artifacts have been dated to 2000 BC, with lingling-o jade items made in Luzon with raw materials from Taiwan.
philippines: Less-expensive Tagalog tabloids, which grew during the 1990s, are popular (particularly in Manila); however, overall newspaper readership is declining in favor of online news.
philippines: Stretching 1,850 kilometers (1,150 mi) north to south, from the South China Sea to the Celebes Sea, the Philippines is bordered by the Philippine Sea to the east, and the Sulu Sea to the southwest.
philippines: The wettest recorded typhoon to hit the Philippines dropped 2,210 millimeters (87 in) in Baguio from July 14 to 18, 1911.
philippines: About 13.48 million people, 12 percent of the Philippines' population, live in Metro Manila, the country's most populous metropolitan area and the world's fifth most populous.
philippines: This course of action was opposed because of the islands' economic potential, security, and the desire to continue religious conversion in the region.
philippines: The country's average humidity is 82 percent.
philippines: The 2019 enactment of the Universal Health Care Act by President Duterte facilitated the automatic enrollment of all Filipinos in the national health insurance program.
philippines: Regional variations exist throughout the country; rice is the general staple starch but cassava is more common in parts of Mindanao.
philippines: Tourist spots include Boracay, called the best island in the world by Travel + Leisure in 2012; Coron and El Nido in Palawan; Cebu; Siargao, and Bohol.
philippines: Japan is the biggest bilateral contributor of official development assistance to the Philippines; although some tension exists because of World War II, much animosity has faded.
philippines: Realistic theater became dominant during the 20th century, with plays focusing on contemporary political and social issues.
philippines: The Philippines' income inequality began to decline in 2012.
philippines: On August 21, 1983, opposition leader Benigno Aquino Jr.
philippines: In 2020, 54 percent lived in urban areas.
philippines: Index of Philippines-related articles
Outline of the Philippines
philippines: Christianization by the Spanish friars occurred mostly across the settled lowlands over the course of time.
philippines: Spain had ruled the Philippines for 333 years.
philippines: Calabarzon was the region with the greatest population as of 2020.
philippines: ABS-CBN and GMA, both free-to-air, were the dominant TV networks; before the May 2020 Philippine government denial of ABS-CBN's franchise renewal, it was the country's largest network.
philippines: Remittances from overseas Filipinos, mainly seamen and nurses, which the country is the world's largest suppliers of, contribute significantly to the country's economy; they reached a record US$37.20 billion in 2023, accounting for 8.5 percent of GDP.
philippines: The women's national football team qualified for the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup, their first World Cup, in January 2022.
philippines: Major export crops include coconuts, bananas, and pineapples; it is the world's largest producer of abaca, and was the world's second biggest exporter of nickel ore in 2022, as well as the biggest exporter of gold-clad metals and the biggest importer of copra in 2020.
philippines: Most Muslims live in Mindanao and nearby islands, and most adhere to the Shafi'i school of Sunni Islam.
philippines: Meanwhile, a smaller proportion (2.33 percent) of the population were Mexican Filipinos.
philippines: Tabon Man is presumably a Negrito, among the archipelago's earliest inhabitants descended from the first human migrations out of Africa via the coastal route along southern Asia to the now-sunken landmasses of Sundaland and Sahul.
philippines: Filipino and English are the country's official languages.
philippines: Bones from Callao Cave potentially represent an otherwise unknown species, Homo luzonensis, who lived 50,000 to 67,000 years ago.
philippines: During the Spanish colonial period, art was used to spread Catholicism mainly through paintings and sculptures.
philippines: The country's largest dam is the 1.2-kilometer-long (0.75 mi) San Roque Dam on the Agno River in Pangasinan.
philippines: A revival of freight rail is planned to reduce road congestion.
philippines: A 1991 law devolved some powers to local governments.
philippines: Population density is thought to have been low during the 14th to 16th centuries due to the frequency of typhoons and the Philippines' location on the Pacific Ring of Fire.
philippines: Although native dances had become less popular, folk dancing began to revive during the 1920s.
philippines: Succeeding Garcia, Diosdado Macapagal moved Independence Day from July 4 to June 12—the date of Emilio Aguinaldo's declaration— and pursued a claim on eastern North Borneo.
philippines: The country had a railway footprint of only 79 kilometers (49 mi) as of 2019, which it planned to expand to 244 kilometers (152 mi).
philippines: It has diverse ethnicities and a rich culture.
philippines: In 2021, the Philippines received its first-ever Olympic gold medal with weightlifter Hidilyn Diaz's victory in Tokyo.
philippines: The country has developed new varieties of crops, including rice, coconuts, and bananas.
philippines: Catholicism became the dominant religion, and Manila became the western hub of trans-Pacific trade.
philippines: Tourism contributed 5.2 percent to the Philippine GDP in 2021 (lower than 12.7 percent in 2019, before the COVID-19 pandemic), and provided 5.7 million jobs in 2019.
philippines: The return of democracy and government reforms which began in 1986 were hampered by national debt, government corruption, and coup attempts.
philippines: The Philippines has three electrical grids, one each for Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao.
philippines: Internal disputes led to the Tejeros Convention, at which Bonifacio lost his position and Emilio Aguinaldo was elected the new leader of the revolution.
philippines: Video gaming and esports are emerging pastimes, with the popularity of indigenous games such as patintero, tumbang preso, luksong tinik, and piko declining among young people.
philippines: Atrocities and war crimes were committed during the war, including the Bataan Death March and the Manila massacre.
philippines: Inter-island transport is by the 919-kilometer (571 mi) Strong Republic Nautical Highway, an integrated set of highways and ferry routes linking 17 cities.
philippines: The Spanish invaded local states using the principle of divide and conquer, bringing most of what is the present-day Philippines under one unified administration.
philippines: The Philippines' location serves an important role in the United States' island chain strategy in the West Pacific; a Mutual Defense Treaty between the two countries was signed in 1951, and was supplemented with the 1999 Visiting Forces Agreement and the 2016 Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement.
philippines: Senators are elected at-large, and representatives are elected from legislative districts and party lists.
philippines: A military modernization program began in 1995 and expanded in 2012 to build a more capable defense system.
philippines: Debt-to-GDP ratio decreased to 60.2 percent at the end of 2023 from a 17-year high 63.7 percent at the end of the third quarter of that year, and indicated resiliency during the COVID-19 pandemic.
philippines: Disparate barangays were deliberately consolidated into towns, where Catholic missionaries could more easily convert their inhabitants to Christianity, which was initially Syncretist.
philippines: The president is elected through direct election by the citizens of the Philippines for a six-year term.
philippines: During its rule, Spain spent a significant sum of its treasury quelling indigenous revolts and defending against external military attacks, including Moro piracy, a 17th-century war against the Dutch, 18th-century British occupation of Manila, and conflict with Muslims in the south.
philippines: During the 1990s, the Philippines began to seek economic liberalization and free trade to help spur foreign direct investment.
philippines: In December 1898, the islands were ceded by Spain to the United States with Puerto Rico and Guam after the Spanish–American War.
philippines: Art films have thrived, however, and several indie films have been successful domestically and abroad.
philippines: Diwata-1, its first micro-satellite, was launched on the United States' Cygnus spacecraft in 2016.
philippines: The country is a pioneer in digital finance, as the first country to put its entire national budget under the blockchain system.
philippines: Since then, the country notably experienced a period of martial law from 1972 to 1981 under the dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos and his subsequent overthrow by the People Power Revolution in 1986, returning to democracy.
philippines: Manila Bay, on which is the capital city of Manila, is connected to Laguna de Bay (the country's largest lake) by the Pasig River.
philippines: The Philippines was ranked 50th in the Global Innovation Index in 2025.
philippines: Manila became the western hub of trans-Pacific trade by Manila galleons built in Bicol and Cavite.
philippines: The postwar 1940s to the early 1960s are considered a high point for Philippine cinema.
philippines: Other significant non-indigenous minorities include Indians and Arabs.
philippines: Artist whose works drew attention to the Philippines are Juan Luna and Félix Resurrección Hidalgo.
philippines: Manila is the country's capital, and its most populated city is Quezon City.
philippines: The First Philippine Republic was promulgated on January 21, 1899.
philippines: Logging had been systemized during the American colonial period and deforestation continued after independence, accelerating during the Marcos presidency due to unregulated logging concessions.
philippines: Three sites in the Philippines have been included on the UNESCO World Heritage List: the Tubbataha Reef in the Sulu Sea, the Puerto Princesa Subterranean River, and the Mount Hamiguitan Wildlife Sanctuary.
philippines: The northeast monsoon (amihan) lasts from November to April.
philippines: The country's 11 largest islands are Luzon, Mindanao, Samar, Negros, Palawan, Panay, Mindoro, Leyte, Cebu, Bohol and Masbate, about 95 percent of its total land area.
philippines: The president is head of state and head of government, and is the commander-in-chief of the armed forces.
philippines: Rondalya music, with traditional mandolin-type instruments, was popular during the Spanish era.
philippines: Code-switching between English and other local languages, notably Tagalog, is common.
philippines: Spanish-based creole varieties, collectively known as Chavacano, are also spoken.
philippines: The top three newspapers, by nationwide readership and credibility, are the Philippine Daily Inquirer, Manila Bulletin, and The Philippine Star.
philippines: Monopolies controlled by Marcos's cronies were established in key industries, including logging and broadcasting; a sugar monopoly led to a famine on the island of Negros.
philippines: Kundiman developed during the 1920s and 1930s.
philippines: The Philippines attracted 5.45 million international visitors in 2023, 30 percent lower than the 8.26 million record in pre-pandemic 2019; most tourists came from South Korea (26.4 percent), United States (16.5 percent), Japan (5.6 percent), Australia (4.89 percent), and China (4.84 percent).
philippines: Many Filipinos were brought to New Spain as slaves and forced crew, whereas many Latin Americans were brought to the Philippines as soldiers and colonists.
philippines: Annual rainfall is as high as 5,000 millimeters (200 in) on the mountainous east coast, but less than 1,000 millimeters (39 in) in some sheltered valleys.
philippines: The Philippines has a high concentration of cellular-phone users, and a high level of mobile commerce.
philippines: The Philippines is a net importer, and a debtor nation.
philippines: The country supported American policies during the Cold War and participated in the Korean and Vietnam wars.
philippines: Festivals are primarily religious, and most towns and villages have such a festival (usually to honor a patron saint).
philippines: One million Filipinos have active tuberculosis, the fourth highest global prevalence rate.
philippines: Unlike other East or Southeast Asian countries, most Filipinos do not eat with chopsticks; they use spoons and forks.
philippines: Later on, a series of corruption, mismanagement and irregularities in government-funded flood management projects occurred under his administration, resulting in numerous protests nationwide.
philippines: Throughout the second millennium AD, some polities were part of the tributary system of China.
philippines: The country's indigenous peoples consisted of 110 enthnolinguistic groups, with a combined population of 15.56 million, in 2020.
philippines: The country's main tourist attractions are its numerous beaches; the Philippines is also a top destination for diving enthusiasts.
philippines: The Philippines has over 1,800 seaports; of these, the principal seaports of Manila (the country's chief, and busiest, port), Batangas, Subic Bay, Cebu, Iloilo, Davao, Cagayan de Oro, General Santos, and Zamboanga are part of the ASEAN Transport Network.
philippines: In the 2020 census, the Philippines' largest ethnic groups were Tagalog (26.0 percent), Visayans [excluding the Cebuano, Hiligaynon, and Waray] (14.3 percent), Ilocano and Cebuano (both eight percent), Hiligaynon (7.9 percent), Bicolano (6.5 percent), and Waray (3.8 percent).
philippines: Negritos are thought to be among the islands' earliest inhabitants.
philippines: American influence on modern Filipino culture is evident in the use of English, and Filipino consumption of fast food and American films and music.
philippines: The country is among the world's ten most vulnerable to climate change.
philippines: The volunteer Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) consist of three branches: the Philippine Air Force, the Philippine Army, and the Philippine Navy.
philippines: Philippine television dramas, known as teleseryes and mainly produced by ABS-CBN and GMA, are also seen in several other countries.
philippines: The Philippines has a tropical maritime climate which is usually hot and humid.
philippines: Spanish architecture left an imprint in town designs around a central square or plaza mayor, but many of its buildings were damaged or destroyed during World War II.
philippines: His successor, Joseph Estrada, prioritized public housing but faced corruption allegations which led to his overthrow by the 2001 EDSA Revolution and the succession of Vice President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo on January 20, 2001.
philippines: Other popular dishes include lechón, kare-kare, sinigang, pancit, lumpia, and arroz caldo.
philippines: The Philippines is a popular retirement destination for foreigners because of its climate and low cost of living.
philippines: Primary and secondary schooling in the Philippines consists of six years of elementary period, four years of junior high school, and two years of senior high school.
philippines: The Philippines is a founding and active member of ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and a member of the East Asia Summit, the Group of 24, and the Non-Aligned Movement.
philippines: By the 15th century, Islam was established in the Sulu Archipelago and spread from there.
philippines: By 1000 BC, the inhabitants of the archipelago had developed into four societies: hunter-gatherer tribes, warrior societies, highland plutocracies, and port principalities.
philippines: Spanish, a widely used lingua franca during the late nineteenth century, has declined greatly in use, although Spanish loanwords are still present in Philippine languages.
philippines: Local film-making began in 1919 with the release of the first Filipino-produced feature film: Dalagang Bukid (A Girl from the Country), directed by Jose Nepomuceno.
philippines: With extensive trade and diplomacy, this brought Southern Chinese merchants and migrants from Southern Fujian, who would gradually settle and intermix in the Philippines.
philippines: Eight or nine of them make landfall.
philippines: The ensuing Philippine–American War ended with the United States controlling the territory until the Japanese invasion of the islands during World War II.
philippines: This means the president and vice president may be from different political parties.
philippines: Filipino Sign Language is the national sign language, and the language of deaf education.
philippines: Filipino and English are used in government, education, print, broadcast media, and business, often with a third local language.
philippines: In 2003, the Philippines was designated a major non-NATO ally.
philippines: Unification and colonization by the Crown of Castile began when Spanish explorer Miguel López de Legazpi arrived from New Spain in 1565.
philippines: From 2010 to 2020, Pinoy pop (P-pop) was influenced by K-pop and J-pop.
philippines: The Philippines is an emerging market and a developing and newly industrialized country, whose economy is transitioning from being agricultural to service- and manufacturing-centered.
philippines: The country's flagship state-owned broadcast-television network is the People's Television Network (PTV).
philippines: There is evidence of early hominins living in what is now the Philippines as early as 709,000 years ago.
philippines: Other minerals include chromium, nickel, molybdenum, platinum, and zinc.
philippines: The Philippines is divided into 18 regions, 82 provinces, 149 cities, 1,493 municipalities, and 42,011 barangays.
philippines: With his wife, Imelda, Marcos was accused of corruption and embezzling billions of dollars of public funds.
philippines: Marcos called a snap presidential election in 1986 which proclaimed him the winner, but the results were widely regarded as fraudulent.
philippines: Sabong (cockfighting) is popular entertainment, especially among Filipino men, and was documented by the Magellan expedition.
philippines: As an important part of the Coral Triangle ecoregion, Philippine waters have unique, diverse marine life and the world's greatest diversity of shore-fish species.
philippines: Beginning in 1942, the Japanese occupation of the Philippines was opposed by large-scale underground guerrilla activity.
philippines: In 1543, Spanish explorer Ruy López de Villalobos named the archipelago las Islas Filipinas in honor of King Philip II.
philippines: The Philippines had a total installed power capacity of 26,882 MW in 2021; 43 percent was generated from coal, 14 percent from oil, 14 percent hydropower, 12 percent from natural gas, and seven percent from geothermal sources.
philippines: A national identity emerged during the 19th century, however, with shared national symbols and cultural and historical touchstones.
philippines: Spain ceded the territory to the United States, and Filipino revolutionaries declared the First Philippine Republic.
philippines: Economic growth continued during Benigno Aquino III's administration, which advocated good governance and transparency.
philippines: About 1.3 million Filipinos work in the BPO sector, primarily in customer service.
philippines: Wealthy families could preserve transcriptions of the epics as family heirlooms, particularly in Mindanao; the Maranao-language Darangen is an example.
philippines: Both are within Metro Manila.
philippines: The Philippines is an archipelago of approximately 7,641 islands, covering a total area (including inland bodies of water) of about 300,000 square kilometers (115,831 sq mi).
philippines: The Philippine Space Agency maintains the country's space program, and the country bought its first satellite in 1996.
philippines: Gross international reserves totalled US$106.64 billion as of March 2026.
philippines: Per-capita health expenditure in 2024 was ₱12,751 and health expenditures were 5.9 percent of the country's GDP.
philippines: Since 2018, Malasakit Centers (one-stop shops) have been set up in several government-operated hospitals to provide medical and financial assistance to indigent patients.
philippines: The country has sought to obtain observer status in the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation since 2003, and was a member of SEATO.
philippines: Negritos, the archipelago's earliest inhabitants, were followed by waves of Austronesian peoples.
philippines: There are three seasons: a hot dry season from March to May, a rainy season from June to November, and a cool dry season from December to February.
philippines: The country has valuable mineral deposits as a result of its complex geologic structure and high level of seismic activity.
philippines: The country's gold production in 2015 is 21 metric tonnes.
philippines: The Philippine constitution provides for Spanish and Arabic on a voluntary, optional basis.
philippines: The country participates in peacekeeping missions, particularly in East Timor.
philippines: Spain conquered portions of Mindanao and Jolo during the last quarter of the 19th century, and the Muslim Moro in the Sultanate of Sulu acknowledged Spanish sovereignty.
philippines: José Rizal wrote the novels Noli Me Tángere and El filibusterismo, both of which depict the injustices of Spanish colonial rule.
philippines: Since 1975, the Philippines has valued its relations with China—its top trading partner, and cooperates significantly with the country.
philippines: The Lumad and Sama-Bajau ethnic groups have an ancestral affinity with the Austroasiatic and Mlabri-speaking Htin peoples of mainland Southeast Asia.
philippines: In December 2018, there were 210,528 kilometers (130,816 mi) of roads in the country.
philippines: The Empire of Japan invaded the Philippines in December 1941 during World War II, and the Second Philippine Republic was established as a puppet state governed by Jose P.
philippines: Philippine art combines indigenous folk art, east-Asian and Classical traditions.
philippines: The Philippines' longest river is the Cagayan River in northern Luzon, which flows for about 520 kilometers (320 mi).
philippines: It has a variety of natural resources and a globally-significant level of biodiversity.
philippines: Historical and cultural ties continue to affect relations with Spain.
philippines: Aquino's widow, Corazon, was installed as president and a new constitution was promulgated.
philippines: It is also a critical junction of Asia-Pacific-Americas undersea communication cables.
philippines: culture and popular music.
philippines: The plays became popular throughout the country, and were written in a number of local languages.
philippines: With an average annual growth rate of six to seven percent since around 2010, the Philippines has emerged as one of the world's fastest-growing economies, driven primarily by its increasing reliance on the service sector.
philippines: The Philippines has 1,975 higher education institutions as of 2019, of which 246 are public and 1,729 are private.
philippines: The 2017 air domestic market was dominated by Philippine Airlines, the country's flag carrier and Asia's oldest commercial airline, and Cebu Pacific (the country's leading low-cost carrier).
philippines: Through ASEAN, the Philippines has signed FTAs with China, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand.
philippines: The Philippines completed Southeast Asia's first nuclear power plant in Bataan in 1984.
philippines: Efforts at post-war reconstruction and ending the Hukbalahap Rebellion succeeded during Ramon Magsaysay's presidency, but sporadic communist insurgency continued to flare up long afterward.
philippines: Modern ships use plywood instead of logs, and motor engines instead of sails; they are used for fishing and inter-island travel.
philippines: Islam is the country's second-largest religion, with 6.4 percent of the population in the 2020 census.
philippines: The Philippines has significant cultural diversity, reinforced by the country's fragmented geography.
philippines: In early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic reached the Philippines, necessitating nationwide lockdowns that caused a brief but severe economic recession.
philippines: The country is also part of multiple international organizations and forums, mainly in ASEAN.
philippines: Ramos's economic gains were overshadowed by the onset of the 1997 Asian financial crisis.
philippines: Catholic schools, which number more than 1,500, and higher education institutions are an integral part of the educational system.
philippines: Traditional desserts are kakanin (rice cakes), which include puto, suman, and bibingka.
philippines: Cultural developments in the Philippines strengthened a national identity, and Tagalog began to take precedence over other local languages.
philippines: About five earthquakes are recorded daily, although most are too weak to be felt.
philippines: Japanese Filipinos include escaped Christians (Kirishitan) who fled persecutions by Shogun Tokugawa Ieyasu.
philippines: Indian cultural traits such as linguistic terms and religious practices began to spread in the Philippines during the 14th century, via the Indianized Hindu Majapahit Empire.
philippines: Its highest mountain is Mount Apo on Mindanao, with an altitude of 2,954 meters (9,692 ft) above sea level.
philippines: Filipino (a standardized variety of Tagalog) became the national language, women's suffrage was introduced, and land reform was considered.
philippines: The Philippine telecommunications industry had been dominated by the PLDT-Globe Telecom duopoly for more than two decades, and the 2021 entry of Dito Telecommunity improved the country's telecommunications service.
philippines: Roads are the dominant form of transport, carrying 98 percent of people and 58 percent of cargo.
philippines: Social identity changed, with the term Filipino encompassing all residents of the archipelago instead of solely referring to Spaniards born in the Philippines.
philippines: In the late 1960s, during the presidency of Ferdinand Marcos, Philippine literature was influenced by political activism; many poets began using Tagalog, in keeping with the country's oral traditions.
philippines: Buddhism is practiced by about 0.04% of the population, primarily by Filipinos of Chinese descent.
philippines: The Philippines is a megadiverse country, with some of the world's highest rates of discovery and endemism (67 percent).
philippines: Garcia, the government initiated a Filipino First policy which promoted Filipino-owned businesses.
philippines: The AFP had a total manpower of around 280,000 as of 2022, of which 130,000 were active military personnel, 100,000 were reserves, and 50,000 were paramilitaries.
philippines: On October 11, 1945, the Philippines became a founding member of the United Nations.
philippines: Governmental functions were gradually given to Filipinos by the Taft Commission; the 1934 Tydings–McDuffie Act granted a ten-year transition to independence through the creation of the Commonwealth of the Philippines the following year, with Manuel Quezon president and Sergio Osmeña vice president.
philippines: Jeepneys are a popular, iconic public utility vehicle; other public land transport includes buses, UV Express, TNVS, Filcab, taxis, and tricycles.
philippines: The Marcos administration also arrested his predecessor Duterte, who was sent to the International Criminal Court in The Netherlands for trial of crimes against humanity, which led to the collapse of the Marcos-Duterte alliance.
philippines: Filipino hip-hop, which originated in 1979, entered the mainstream in 1990.
philippines: Some regions, such as Batanes, differ slightly due to climate; limestone was used as a building material, and houses were built to withstand typhoons.
philippines: Marcos's renewal of a pro-US foreign policy, however, has been viewed as a reversal of Duterte's cordiality with China, and territorial disputes in the South China Sea have since escalated.
philippines: The country reduced its poverty rate from 49.2 percent in 1985, to 18.1 percent in 2021.
philippines: When the barangays banded together to form a larger settlement or a geographically looser alliance, their more-esteemed members would be recognized as a "paramount datu", rajah or sultan, and would rule the community.
philippines: Most sewage in the Philippines flows into septic tanks.
philippines: Rizal was executed on December 30, 1896, for rebellion, and his death radicalized many who had been loyal to Spain.
philippines: The Philippines has a long relationship with the United States, involving economics, security, and interpersonal relations.
philippines: The Philippines has substantial ethnic diversity, due to foreign influence and the archipelago's division by water and topography.
philippines: Respect for authority and the elderly is valued, and is shown with gestures such as mano and the honorifics po and opo and kuya (older brother) or ate (older sister).
philippines: The American arrival began Filipino literary use of English and influenced the development of the Philippine comics industry that flourished from the 1920s through the 1970s.
philippines: The Philippines is a priority hotspot for biodiversity conservation; it has more than 200 protected areas, which was expanded to 7,790,000 hectares (30,100 sq mi) as of 2023.
philippines: The southwest monsoon (known as the habagat) lasts from May to October.
philippines: According to official estimates, the Philippines had 7,000,000 hectares (27,000 sq mi) of forest cover in 2023.
philippines: The Spanish considered their war with the Muslims in Southeast Asia an extension of the Reconquista.
philippines: The arrival of the explorer Ferdinand Magellan marked the beginning of Spanish colonization.
philippines: Over one million Filipinos were estimated to have died by the end of the war.
philippines: The Philippines has a large number of radio stations and newspapers.
philippines: Adobo is the unofficial national dish.
philippines: Other indigenous languages, including Cuyonon, Ifugao, Itbayat, Kalinga, Kamayo, Kankanaey, Masbateño, Romblomanon, Manobo, and several Visayan languages, are used in their respective provinces.
philippines: Regional development is uneven, however, with Manila (in particular) gaining most of the new economic growth.
philippines: Christianity is the dominant religion followed by about 89 percent of the population.
philippines: Eventually, the name "Las Islas Filipinas" would be used for the archipelago's Spanish possessions.
philippines: Plans to harness nuclear energy began during the early 1970s during the presidency of Ferdinand Marcos in response to the 1973 oil crisis.
philippines: More than 60 percent of the country's population live in the coastal zone.
philippines: About 0.2 percent of the population follow indigenous religions, whose practices and folk beliefs are often syncretized with Christianity and Islam.
philippines: They include Ibong Adarna, an epic about an eponymous magical bird, and Florante at Laura by Tagalog author Francisco Balagtas.
philippines: Growing public frustration with post-EDSA governance led to the 2016 election of populist Rodrigo Duterte, whose presidency saw the decline of liberalism in the country albeit largely retaining liberal economic policies.
philippines: Ethnic Filipinos generally belong to several Southeast Asian ethnic groups, classified linguistically as Austronesians speaking Malayo-Polynesian languages.
philippines: The other four no longer have any known speakers.
philippines: The main sanction for divergence from these values are the concepts of hiya (shame) and loss of amor propio (self-esteem).
philippines: The country's unit of currency is the Philippine peso (₱ or PHP).
philippines: Bangsamoro's largest separatist organizations, the Moro National Liberation Front and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, signed final peace agreements with the government in 1996 and 2014 respectively.
philippines: (Marcos's chief rival) was assassinated on the tarmac at Manila International Airport.
philippines: Eight major types of forests are distributed throughout the Philippines: dipterocarp, beach forest, pine forest, molave forest, lower montane forest, upper montane (or mossy forest), mangroves, and ultrabasic forest.
philippines: Since 1967, the Philippines had become the largest global supplier of nurses; seventy percent of nursing graduates go overseas to work, causing problems in retaining skilled practitioners.
philippines: The president appoints and presides over the cabinet and officials of various national government agencies and institutions.
philippines: The Philippines' coastline measures 36,289 kilometers (22,549 mi), the world's fifth-longest, and the country's exclusive economic zone covers 2,263,816 km2 (874,064 sq mi).
philippines: The average annual temperature is around 26.6 °C (79.9 °F).
philippines: The Spanish–Moro conflict lasted for several hundred years.
philippines: A communist insurgency and military conflict with Moro separatists persisted; the administration also faced a series of disasters, including the eruption of Mount Pinatubo in June 1991.
philippines: has made regular assurances to defend the Philippines, including the South China Sea.
philippines: In 2020, the top languages generally spoken at home were Tagalog, Binisaya, Hiligaynon, Ilocano, Cebuano, and Bikol.
philippines: Civilian security is handled by the Philippine National Police under the Department of the Interior and Local Government.
philippines: The Philippine Area of Responsibility has 19 typhoons in a typical year, usually from July to October.
philippines: Regions other than Bangsamoro are divided for administrative convenience.
philippines: The country's leading causes of death in 2021 were ischaemic heart diseases, cerebrovascular diseases, COVID-19, neoplasms, and diabetes.
philippines: Other Filipino values are optimism about the future, pessimism about the present, concern about other people, friendship and friendliness, hospitality, religiosity, respect for oneself and others (particularly women), and integrity.
philippines: The United States began changing its nomenclature from "the Philippine Islands" to "the Philippines" in the Philippine Autonomy Act and the Jones Law.
philippines: Victorio Edades known as the father of Modern Philippine Art, popularized Modernism in the Philippines in 1920s and 1930s.
philippines: 96 percent of Filipino households had an improved source of drinking water and 92 percent of households had sanitary toilet facilities as of 2016; connections of toilet facilities to appropriate sewerage systems remain largely insufficient, however, especially in rural and urban poor communities.
philippines: The Philippines is bounded by the South China Sea to the west, the Philippine Sea to the east, and the Celebes Sea to the south.
philippines: Public education, provided by the government, is free at the elementary and secondary levels and at most public higher-education institutions.
philippines: American influence introduced vaudeville and ballet.
philippines: Some of the earliest well-known works were created from the 17th to the 19th centuries.
philippines: English broadsheets are popular among executives, professionals and students.
philippines: Quezon's priorities were defence, social justice, inequality, economic diversification, and national character.
philippines: The Austronesian population's origin is uncertain, but relatives of Taiwanese aborigines probably brought their language and mixed with the region's existing population.
philippines: The Philippines is the world's primary business process outsourcing (BPO) center.
philippines: The early polities typically had a three-tier social structure: nobility, freemen, and dependent debtor-bondsmen.
philippines: Under President Duterte, ties with the United States weakened in favor of improved relations with China and Russia.
philippines: The Malampaya gas field, discovered in the early 1990s off the coast of Palawan, reduced the Philippines' reliance on imported oil; it provides about 40 percent of Luzon's energy requirements, and 30 percent of the country's energy needs.
philippines: A variety of boats are used throughout the Philippines; most are double-outrigger vessels known as banca or bangka.
philippines: The National Grid Corporation of the Philippines manages the country's power grid since 2009 and provides overhead transmission lines across the country's islands.
philippines: Rock music was introduced to Filipinos during the 1960s and developed into Filipino rock (or Pinoy rock), a term encompassing pop rock, alternative rock, heavy metal, punk, new wave, ska, and reggae.
philippines: It was primarily influenced by Hispanic, Chinese, and American cuisines, which were adapted to the Filipino palate.
philippines: The Philippines' average annual population growth rate is decreasing, although government attempts to further reduce population growth have been contentious.
philippines: Basketball, played at the amateur and professional levels, is considered the country's most popular sport.
philippines: In July 2024, the Philippines had a population of 112,729,484.
philippines: Nineteen regional languages are auxiliary official languages as media of instruction:
philippines: Filipino, a standardized version of Tagalog, is spoken primarily in Metro Manila.
philippines: Public universities are non-sectarian, and are primarily classified as state-administered or local government-funded.
philippines: They include the Igorot, Lumad, Mangyan, and the indigenous peoples of Palawan.
philippines: The cultures of Lumads of Mindanao and the Sulu Archipelago developed distinctly, since they had limited Spanish influence and more influence from nearby Islamic regions.
philippines: The Spanish–American War began the following year, and reached the Philippines; Aguinaldo returned, resumed the revolution, and declared independence from Spain on June 12, 1898.
philippines: Attempts to change the government to a federal, unicameral, or parliamentary government have been made since the Ramos administration.
philippines: The Philippine Revolution began in 1896, and became entwined with the 1898 Spanish–American War.
philippines: The last major earthquakes were in 1976 in the Moro Gulf and in 1990 on Luzon.
philippines: Despite wider historical use, rail transportation in the Philippines is limited to transporting passengers within Metro Manila and the provinces of Laguna and Quezon, with a short track in the Bicol Region.
philippines: Early in his presidency, Marcos began infrastructure projects funded mostly by foreign loans; this improved the economy, and contributed to his reelection in 1969.
philippines: As of end-2021, the Philippines' household electrification level was about 95.41%.
philippines: The introduction of women's suffrage during the Commonwealth period (1935–1946) signifies a progressive step towards gender equality in the Philippines.
philippines: Philippine media primarily uses Filipino and English, although broadcasting has shifted to Filipino.
philippines: Spanish and American cultures profoundly influenced Filipino culture as a result of long colonization.
philippines: Research organizations include the Philippine Rice Research Institute and the International Rice Research Institute.
philippines: Television shows, commercials, and films are regulated by the Movie and Television Review and Classification Board.
philippines: Better-known festivals include Ati-Atihan, Dinagyang, Moriones, Sinulog, and Flores de Mayo—a month-long devotion to the Virgin Mary held in May.
philippines: Manila, its capital, and Quezon City, the country's most populous city, are in Metro Manila.
philippines: Attempts at reform met with resistance; Andrés Bonifacio founded the Katipunan secret society, which sought independence from Spain through armed revolt, in 1892.
philippines: Ramos, who liberalized the national economy with privatization and deregulation.
philippines: The National Capital Region (NCR) was the most densely populated.
philippines: These minority aboriginal settlers are an Australoid group, a remnant of the first human migration from Africa to Australia who were probably displaced by later waves of migration.
philippines: The American colonial period exposed many Filipinos to U.S.
philippines: Near the end of his last constitutionally-permitted term, Marcos declared martial law on September 21, 1972 using the specter of communism and began to rule by decree; the period was characterized by political repression, censorship, and human rights violations.
philippines: The country has a number of folk epics.
philippines: Many Filipinos were transported by the Americans to concentration camps, where thousands died.
philippines: Except for shallow wells for domestic use, groundwater users are required to obtain a permit from the National Water Resources Board.
philippines: Arroyo's nine-year administration was marked by economic growth, but was tainted by corruption and political scandals, including electoral fraud allegations during the 2004 presidential election.
philippines: The largest of its controlled islands is Thitu Island, which contains the Philippines' smallest town.
philippines: The Philippines, officially the Republic of the Philippines, is an archipelagic country in Southeast Asia.
philippines: In early 2021, 67 percent of Filipinos (73.91 million) had Internet access; the overwhelming majority used smartphones.
philippines: Spanish influence around that time introduced zarzuela plays (with music) and comedias, with dance.
philippines: The country's top-ranked universities are the University of the Philippines Diliman, Ateneo de Manila University, De La Salle University, and University of Santo Tomas.
philippines: American rule introduced new architectural styles in the construction of government buildings and Art Deco theaters.
philippines: Judicial authority is vested in the Supreme Court, composed of a chief justice and fourteen associate justices, who are appointed by the president from nominations submitted by the Judicial and Bar Council.
philippines: The country has over 3,200 fish species, 121 endemic.
philippines: The national university is the eight-school University of the Philippines (UP) system.
philippines: The Philippines has claims in the Spratly Islands which overlap with claims by China, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Vietnam.
philippines: Locally produced theatrical drama became established during the late 1870s.
philippines: Among the nobility were leaders known as datus, who were responsible for ruling autonomous groups (barangays or dulohan).
philippines: Filipino values are rooted primarily in personal alliances based in kinship, obligation, friendship, religion (particularly Christianity), and commerce.
philippines: Fernando Amorsolo dominated Philippine paintings during the American colonial period, popular for his pastoral scenes of Philippine countryside.
philippines: The Philippines has participated in every Summer Olympic Games since 1924, except when they supported the American-led boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics.
philippines: The Philippines has long struggled against local insurgencies, separatism, and terrorism.
philippines: The men's national football team has participated in one Asian Cup.
philippines: Spanish-influenced musicians are primarily bandurria-based bands with 14-string guitars.
philippines: The Luzon Strait is the most economical (quickest) traffic node for shipping between the Americas and Asia.
philippines: The Philippine population are the world's top Internet users.
philippines: Production companies remained small during the silent film era, but sound films and larger productions emerged in 1933.
philippines: Between 1948 and 2010, the population of the Philippines increased almost fivefold, from 19 million to 92 million.
philippines: The 2023 budget allocation for healthcare was ₱334.9 billion.
philippines: Ninoy Aquino International Airport, formerly known as Manila International Airport, has the greatest number of passengers.
philippines: The Philippines prior to foreign colonization was believed to be egalitarian.
philippines: During his 1542 expedition, Spanish explorer Ruy López de Villalobos named the islands of Leyte and Samar "Felipinas" after the Prince of Asturias, later Philip II of Castile.
philippines: Lazarus), were used by the Spanish to refer to islands in the region before Spanish rule was established.
philippines: Most of the country's defense spending is on the Philippine Army, which leads operations against internal threats such as communist and Muslim separatist insurgencies; its preoccupation with internal security contributed to the decline of Philippine naval capability which began during the 1970s.
philippines: Ingredients such as calamansi, ube, and pili are used in Filipino desserts.
philippines: Part of the Burnham plan was the construction of government buildings reminiscent of Greek or Neoclassical architecture.
philippines: on-scene military commander of a cease-fire proposal and a declaration of war by the nascent Republic, escalated into the Philippine–American War.
philippines: Aquino III signed a peace agreement with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) resulting in the Bangsamoro Organic Law establishing an autonomous Bangsamoro region, but a shootout with MILF rebels in Mamasapano delayed passage of the law.
philippines: The decade also saw the birth of the Manila sound and Original Pilipino Music (OPM).
philippines: Public holidays in the Philippines are classified as regular or special.
philippines: On the western fringes of the Pacific Ring of Fire, the Philippines has frequent seismic and volcanic activity.
philippines: With an estimated 13,500 plant species in the country (3,500 of which are endemic), Philippine rain forests have an array of flora: about 3,500 species of trees, 8,000 flowering plant species, 1,100 ferns, and 998 orchid species have been identified.
philippines: Protestants made up about 5% to 7% of the population in 2010.
philippines: Under Magsaysay's successor, Carlos P.
philippines: As a newly industrialized country, the Philippine economy has been transitioning from an agricultural base to one with more emphasis on services and manufacturing.
philippines: Other popular sports include boxing and billiards, boosted by the achievements of Manny Pacquiao and Efren Reyes.
philippines: It is the world's third-biggest geothermal-energy producer, behind the United States and Indonesia.
philippines: As with many other governments, it is also engaged in for profit activities through various State-owned Enterprises it terms as Government-owned and controlled corporation (GOCC).
philippines: The coolest month is January, and the warmest is May.
philippines: The adoption of animism, Hinduism with Buddhist influence, and Islam established island-kingdoms.
philippines: The country's Christmas season begins as early as September 1, and Holy Week is a solemn religious observance for its Christian population.
philippines: Other names, such as "Islas del Poniente" (Western Islands), "Islas del Oriente" (Eastern Islands), Ferdinand Magellan's name, and "San Lázaro" (Islands of St.
philippines: Except for the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, these entities (the newest of which is the controversial Maharlika Investment Corporation) are supervised by the Governance Commission for GOCCs (GCG).
philippines: Several Philippine churches adapted baroque architecture to withstand earthquakes, leading to the development of Earthquake Baroque; four baroque churches have been listed as a collective UNESCO World Heritage Site.
philippines: The oldest modern human remains on the islands are from the Tabon Caves of Palawan, U/Th-dated to 47,000 ± 11–10,000 years ago.
philippines: The Philippines hosts the only Latin American established districts in Asia.
philippines: In 2004, the government began offering alternative education to out-of-school children, youth, and adults to improve literacy; madaris were mainstreamed in 16 regions that year, primarily in Mindanao Muslim areas under the Department of Education.
philippines: The 2012 Scarborough Shoal standoff, after China seized the shoal from the Philippines, led to an international arbitration case which the Philippines eventually won; China rejected the result, and other new Philippine maritime laws, and made the shoal a prominent symbol of the broader dispute.
philippines: There are two types of Philippine folk dance, stemming from traditional indigenous influences and Spanish influence.
philippines: Its primary import markets that year were China, Japan, South Korea, the United States, and Indonesia.
philippines: Westward expansion of Papuan ancestry from Papua New Guinea to eastern Indonesia and Mindanao has been detected in the Blaan people and the Sangir language, while ancient immigration added some Indian ancestry to the precolonial Indianized kingdoms of the islands.
philippines: The backbone of land-based transportation in the country is the Pan-Philippine Highway, which connects the islands of Luzon, Samar, Leyte, and Mindanao.
philippines: Spanish colonial fortifications (fuerzas) in several parts of the Philippines were primarily designed by missionary architects and built by Filipino stonemasons.
philippines: Many Philippine Negrito languages have unique vocabularies which survived Austronesian acculturation.
philippines: Reciprocity through utang na loob (a debt of gratitude) is a significant Filipino cultural trait, and an internalized debt can never be fully repaid.
philippines: Philippine mythology has been handed down primarily through oral tradition; popular figures are Maria Makiling, Lam-ang, and the Sarimanok.
philippines: During the Hispanic era (late 1700s), the tribute-census showed that mixed Spanish Filipinos made up a moderate ratio (around 5 percent) of all citizens.
philippines: As of 2023, the country has 1,640 public libraries affiliated with the National Library of the Philippines.
philippines: Portuguese explorer Ferdinand Magellan arrived in 1521, claimed the islands for Spain, and was killed by Lapulapu's men in the Battle of Mactan.
philippines: The Cariñosa, a Hispanic Filipino dance, is unofficially considered the country's national dance.
philippines: This inspired the Propaganda Movement, organized by Marcelo H.
philippines: In 2019, the Philippines had a basic literacy rate of 93.8 percent of those five years old or older, and a functional literacy rate of 91.6 percent of those aged 10 to 64.
philippines: Trade with China began during the late Tang dynasty, and expanded during the Song dynasty.
philippines: The country's labor force is about 52.09 million with an unemployment rate of 5.1 percent as of February 2026.
philippines: Vigan, in Ilocos Sur, is known for its Hispanic-style houses and buildings.
philippines: Since the turn of the 21st century, the country's film industry has struggled to compete with larger-budget foreign films (particularly Hollywood films).
philippines: In 1965, Macapagal lost the presidential election to Ferdinand Marcos.
philippines: Located in the western Pacific Ocean, it consists of about 7,641 islands, with a total area of about 300,000 square kilometers, which are broadly categorized in three main geographical divisions from north to south: Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao.
philippines: Martial law in the 1970s produced Filipino folk rock bands and artists who were at the forefront of political demonstrations.
philippines: According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in its October 2025 update, the Philippines is the world's 33rd largest economy with a nominal gross domestic product (GDP) of $494.16 billion.
philippines: Under a promise of continuing Duterte's policies, Marcos's son, Bongbong Marcos, ran with Duterte's daughter, Sara, and won the 2022 election.
philippines: Average life expectancy in the Philippines as of 2023 is 70.48 years (66.97 years for males, and 74.15 years for females).
philippines: Hispanic immigrants from Latin America and Iberia would also selectively colonize.
philippines: Traditional Philippine architecture has two main models: the indigenous bahay kubo and the bahay na bato, which developed under Spanish rule.
philippines: Philippine literature consists of works usually written in Filipino, Spanish, or English.
philippines: Aquino was succeeded by Fidel V.
philippines: Health care in the Philippines is provided by the national and local governments, although private payments account for most healthcare spending.
philippines: The war resulted in the deaths of 250,000 to 1 million civilians, primarily due to famine and disease.
philippines: Immigrants arrived in the Philippines from elsewhere in the Spanish Empire, especially from the Spanish Americas.
philippines: Extensive overseas trade with neighbors such as the late Tang or Song empire brought Chinese people to the archipelago as well, who would also gradually settle in and intermix over the centuries.
philippines: Present-day dances vary from delicate ballet to street-oriented breakdancing.
philippines: The Philippines had 90 national government-owned airports as of 2022, of which eight are international.
philippines: Most printed literary works during Spanish colonial rule were religious in nature, although Filipino elites who later learned Spanish wrote nationalistic literature.
philippines: It is a member of the World Trade Organization and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation.
philippines: Traditional eating with the hands or fingers (known as kamayan) had been used in less urbanized areas, but has been popularized with the introduction of Filipino food to foreigners and city residents.
philippines: Text messaging is a popular form of communication, and the nation sent an average of one billion SMS messages per day in 2007.
philippines: The Philippines relies heavily on the United States for its external defense; the U.S.
philippines: Traffic is a significant issue in Manila and on arterial roads to the capital.
philippines: The government provides technical-vocational training and development through the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority.
philippines: The country's median age is 25.3, and 63.9 percent of its population is between 15 and 64 years old.
philippines: Spanish Manila became the capital of the Captaincy General of the Philippines and the Spanish East Indies in 1571, Spanish territories in Asia and the Pacific.
philippines: Temperatures at sea level across the Philippines tend to be in the same range, regardless of latitude.
philippines: Spanish rule was restored with the 1763 Treaty of Paris.
philippines: With a population of over 114 million, it is the world's twelfth-most-populous country.
philippines: Other Christian denominations include Iglesia ni Cristo, the Philippine Independent Church, and Seventh-day Adventism.
philippines: Most Filipinos obtain news and information from television, the Internet, and social media.
philippines: The colony survived on an annual subsidy from the Spanish crown averaging 250,000 pesos, usually paid as 75 tons of silver bullion from the Americas.
philippines: American colonial authorities referred to the country as the Philippine Islands (a translation of the Spanish name).
philippines: The Philippines has 1,387 hospitals, 33 percent of which are government-run; 23,281 barangay health stations, 2,592 rural health units, 2,411 birthing homes, and 659 infirmaries provide primary care throughout the country.
philippines: The vice president, limited to two consecutive six-year terms, is elected separately from the president.
philippines: There have been steps towards decentralization.
philippines: Marcos's heavy borrowing early in his presidency resulted in economic crashes, exacerbated by an early 1980s recession where the economy contracted by 7.3 percent annually in 1984 and 1985.
philippines: After the United States retook the Philippines from the Japanese, the Philippines became independent in 1946.
philippines: Some polities had exchanges with other states throughout Asia.
philippines: Corruption is significant, attributed by some historians to the Spanish colonial period's padrino system.
philippines: Descendants of mixed-race couples are known as Mestizos or tisoy, which during the Spanish colonial times, were mostly composed of Chinese mestizos (Mestizos de Sangley), Spanish mestizos (Mestizos de Español) and the mix thereof (tornatrás).
philippines: Electric distribution to consumers is provided by privately owned distribution utilities and government-owned electric cooperatives.
philippines: By the 14th century, several large coastal settlements emerged as trading centers and became the focus of societal changes.
philippines: In 2023, US$477 million, 1.4 percent of GDP, was spent on the Philippine military.
philippines: During the Philippine Revolution, the Malolos Congress proclaimed it the República Filipina (Philippine Republic).
philippines: The 1897 Pact of Biak-na-Bato resulted in the Hong Kong Junta government in exile.
philippines: Over 10 million Filipinos live and work in 200 countries, giving the Philippines soft power.
philippines: It is 18.3 °C (64.9 °F) in Baguio, 1,500 meters (4,900 ft) above sea level.
philippines: Communicable diseases are correlated with natural disasters, primarily floods.
philippines: Indigenous groups such as the Igorots have preserved their precolonial customs and traditions by resisting the Spanish.
philippines: The Philippines entered into the ASEAN Trade in Goods Agreement in 2010 and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership free trade agreement (FTA) in 2023.
philippines: Karaoke is also popular.
philippines: The country had the world's third-largest Roman Catholic population as of 2013, and was Asia's largest Christian nation.
philippines: del Pilar, José Rizal, Graciano López Jaena, and Mariano Ponce, which advocated political reform in the Philippines.
philippines: Although freedom of the press is protected by the constitution, the country was listed as the seventh-most-dangerous country for journalists in 2022 by the Committee to Protect Journalists due to 13 unsolved murders of journalists.
philippines: A founding and active member of the United Nations, the Philippines has been a non-permanent member of the Security Council.
philippines: It was the first tropical nation to compete at the Winter Olympic Games, debuting in 1972.
philippines: The region is seismically active, and has been constructed by plates converging towards each other from multiple directions.
philippines: Revolutionary sentiment grew in 1872 after 200 locally recruited colonial troops and laborers alongside three activist Catholic priests were executed on questionable grounds.
philippines: Although the Philippines is a secular state with freedom of religion, an overwhelming majority of Filipinos consider religion very important and irreligion is very low.
philippines: In 1821, Damian Domingo, the father of Filipino paintings, opened the Academia de Dibujo art school in Binondo.
philippines: Other artists during Spanish colonial rule included painters such as Josef Luciano Dans, Jose Honorato Lozano, Mariano Asuncion and sculptors such as Isabelo Tampinco and Crispulo Hocson.
philippines: The Philippines ranked 104th out of 163 countries in the 2024 Global Peace Index.
philippines: Access to medicine has improved due to increasing Filipino acceptance of generic drugs.
philippines: Popular indigenous dances include the Tinikling and Singkil, which include the rhythmic clapping of bamboo poles.
philippines: The Katipunan Cry of Pugad Lawin began the Philippine Revolution in 1896.
philippines: The Philippines has 167 terrestrial mammals (102 endemic species), 235 reptiles (160 endemic species), 99 amphibians (74 endemic species), 686 birds (224 endemic species), and over 20,000 insect species.
philippines: Ethnologue lists 186 languages for the Philippines, 182 of which are living languages.
philippines: Some Philippine Negritos have a Denisovan admixture in their genome.
philippines: Rehabilitation efforts have had marginal success.
philippines: Philippine politics tends to be dominated by well-known families, such as political dynasties or celebrities, and party switching is widely practiced.
philippines: Education, a significant proportion of the national budget, was allocated ₱900.9 billion from the ₱5.268 trillion 2023 budget.
philippines: The Philippines has one of the largest agricultural-research systems in Asia, despite relatively low spending on agricultural research and development.
philippines: They center around social harmony through pakikisama, motivated primarily by the desire for acceptance by a group.
philippines: During the American period, construction of Gabaldon school buildings began, and some city planning using architectural designs and master plans by Daniel Burnham was done in portions of Manila and Baguio.
philippines: The resulting protests led to the People Power Revolution, which forced Marcos and his allies to flee to Hawaii.
philippines: Science high schools for talented students were established in 1963.
philippines: Critically acclaimed Philippine films include Himala (Miracle) and Oro, Plata, Mata (Gold, Silver, Death), both released in 1982.
philippines: The Philippines has 23 active volcanoes; of them, Mayon, Taal, Canlaon, and Bulusan have the largest number of recorded eruptions.
