photography: by Robin Lenman, Oxford University Press 2005.
photography: Portrait and wedding photography: Are photographs made and sold directly to the end user of the images.
photography: Tourism and photography combine to create a "tourist gaze" in which local inhabitants are positioned and defined by the camera lens.
photography: In this light, money could be paid for the subject of the photograph or the photograph itself.
photography: Photojournalism is a particular form of photography (the collecting, editing, and presenting of news material for publication or broadcast) that employs images in order to tell a news story.
photography: In 1839, Kobell, together with Carl August von Steinheil, reported on their experiments to the Bavarian Academy of Sciences.
photography: Watson-Guptill.
photography: Modern photography has raised a number of concerns on its effect on society.
photography: Hércules Florence, a French painter and inventor living in Campinas, Brazil, used the French form of the word, photographie, in private notes which a Brazilian historian believes were written in 1834.
photography: His scientifically elegant and important but ultimately impractical invention earned him the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1908.
photography: The movie camera is a type of photographic camera that takes a rapid sequence of photographs on recording medium.
photography: Many photographers continue to produce some monochrome images, sometimes because of the established archival permanence of well-processed silver-halide-based materials.
photography: Wilhelm Homberg described how light darkened some chemicals (photochemical effect) in 1694.
photography: Lynne Warren (Hrsg.): Encyclopedia of Twentieth-Century Photography, 1719 p., New York: Routledge 2006.
photography: Ultraviolet and infrared films have been available for many decades and employed in a variety of photographic avenues since the 1960s.
photography: The controversy began with the earliest images "written with light"; Nicéphore Niépce, Louis Daguerre, and others among the very earliest photographers were met with acclaim, but some questioned if their work met the definitions and purposes of art.
photography: The discovery of dye sensitization by photochemist Hermann Vogel in 1873 suddenly made it possible to add sensitivity to green, yellow and even red.
photography: Around 1717, Johann Heinrich Schulze used a light-sensitive slurry to capture images of cut-out letters on a bottle and on that basis many German sources and some international ones credit Schulze as the inventor of photography.
photography: He invented the cyanotype process, later familiar as the "blueprint".
photography: Different machines produced 12- or 24-hour photographic traces of the minute-by-minute variations of atmospheric pressure, temperature, humidity, atmospheric electricity, and the three components of geomagnetic forces.
photography: This movement is called Pictorialism, often using soft focus for a dreamy, 'romantic' look.
photography: The method has been much extended by using other wavelengths, such as infrared photography and ultraviolet photography, as well as spectroscopy.
photography: France soon agreed to pay Daguerre a pension in exchange for the right to present his invention to the world as the gift of France, which occurred when complete working instructions were unveiled on 19 August 1839.
photography: This claim is widely reported but is not yet largely recognized internationally.
photography: Photography is the result of combining several technical discoveries relating to seeing an image and capturing the image.
photography: British chemist John Herschel made many contributions to the new field.
photography: The astronomer John Herschel is also credited with coining the word, independent of Talbot, in 1839.
photography: Crime scene photos are usually taken from three vantage points: overview, mid-range, and close-up.
photography: In March 1837, Franz von Kobell, used silver chloride and a cardboard camera to make pictures in negative of the Frauenkirche and other buildings in Munich, then taking another picture of the negative to get a positive, the actual black and white reproduction of a view on the object.
photography: In the United States, a handful of photographers, including Alfred Stieglitz, Edward Steichen, John Szarkowski, F.
photography: The resulting digital image is stored electronically, but can be reproduced on paper.
photography: There are many ongoing questions about different aspects of photography.
photography: Uses of full spectrum photography are for fine art photography, geology, forensics and law enforcement.
photography: Photographs, both monochrome and color, can be captured and displayed through two side-by-side images that emulate human stereoscopic vision.
photography: The pictures produced were round with a diameter of 4 cm, the method was later named the "Steinheil method".
photography: In Brazil, Hercules Florence had started working out a silver-salt-based paper process in 1832, later naming it photographia, at least four years before John Herschel coined the English word photography.
photography: However, it has also been argued that there exists a "reverse gaze" through which indigenous photographees can position the tourist photographer as a shallow consumer of images.
photography: This Neumann chemogram from the 1970s thus differs from the beginning of the previously created cameraless chemigrams of a Pierre Cordier and the photogram Man Ray or László Moholy-Nagy of the previous decades.
photography: An important difference between digital and chemical photography is that chemical photography resists photo manipulation because it involves film and photographic paper, while digital imaging is a highly manipulative medium.
photography: Almost all digital cameras have an option to shoot in monochrome, and almost all image editing software can combine or selectively discard RGB color channels to produce a monochrome image from one shot in color.
photography: Food photography can be used for editorial, packaging or advertising use.
photography: Sophia and the windows at Chartres, Mexican sculpture, a Persian bowl, Chinese carpets, Giotto's frescoes at Padua, and the masterpieces of Poussin, Piero della Francesca, and Cezanne?
photography: The latter is now the most common form of film (non-digital) color photography owing to the introduction of automated photo printing equipment.
photography: In 1834, having settled on silver nitrate on paper, a combination which had been the subject of experiments by Thomas Wedgwood around the year 1800, Florence's notebooks indicate that he eventually succeeded in creating light-fast, durable images.
photography: Amateurs can fill a gap in subjects or topics that might not otherwise be photographed if they are not commercially useful or salable.
photography: The article is the earliest known occurrence of the word in public print.
photography: The albumen print process, publicly revealed in 1847, produces brownish tones.
photography: After reading about Daguerre's invention in January 1839, Talbot published his hitherto secret method in a paper to the Royal Society and set about improving on it.
photography: Basic Photographic Materials and Processes.
photography: In her On Photography (1977), Susan Sontag dismisses the objectivity of photography.
photography: The camera is the image-forming device, and a photographic plate, photographic film or a silicon electronic image sensor is the capture medium.
photography: Although modern photography is dominated by digital users, film continues to be used by enthusiasts and professional photographers.
photography: In 1981, Sony unveiled the first consumer camera to use a charge-coupled device for imaging, eliminating the need for film: the Sony Mavica.
photography: Cameras can range from small to very large, a whole room that is kept dark while the object to be photographed is in another room where it is properly illuminated.
photography: Phaidon, New York.
photography: Paparazzi is a form of photojournalism in which the photographer captures candid images of athletes, celebrities, politicians, and other prominent people.
photography: Photography is both restricted and protected by the law in many jurisdictions.
photography: Landscape photography typically captures the presence of nature but can also focus on human-made features or disturbances of landscapes.
photography: The commercial photographic world could include:
photography: Fashion and glamour photography usually incorporates models and is a form of advertising photography.
photography: Unlike other forms of photography such as product or food photography, successful wildlife photography requires a photographer to choose the right place and right time when specific wildlife are present and active.
photography: In reaction to that, Weston, Ansel Adams, and others formed the Group f/64 to advocate 'straight photography', the photograph as a (sharply focused) thing in itself and not an imitation of something else.
photography: It was signed "J.M.", believed to have been Berlin astronomer Johann von Maedler.
photography: Image Clarity: High Resolution Photography by John B.
photography: Desensitization discussion goes hand in hand with debates about censored images.
photography: Twenty-first century social media and near-ubiquitous camera phones have made photographic and video recording pervasive in everyday life.
photography: The first photographed atom was discovered in 2012 by physicists at Griffith University, Australia.
photography: In the mid-2010s smartphone cameras added numerous automatic assistance features like color management, autofocus face detection and image stabilization that significantly decreased skill and effort needed to take high quality images.
photography: The first flexible photographic roll film was marketed by George Eastman, founder of Kodak in 1885, but this original "film" was actually a coating on a paper base.
photography: Sontag writes of her concern that the ability to censor pictures means the photographer has the ability to construct reality.
photography: Holland Day, and Edward Weston, spent their lives advocating for photography as a fine art.
photography: Protection of photographs is typically achieved by granting copyright or moral rights to the photographer.
photography: The camera (or 'camera obscura') is a dark room or chamber from which, as far as possible, all light is excluded except the light that forms the image.
photography: As part of the processing, the image-bearing layer was stripped from the paper and transferred to a hardened gelatin support.
photography: A color print on paper could be produced by superimposing carbon prints of the three images made in their complementary colors, a subtractive method of color reproduction pioneered by Louis Ducos du Hauron in the late 1860s.
photography: Digital cameras use an electronic image sensor based on light-sensitive electronics such as charge-coupled device (CCD) or complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor (CMOS) technology.
photography: Photography has become universal in recording events and data in science and engineering, and at crime scenes or accident scenes.
photography: Talbot's famous tiny paper negative of the Oriel window in Lacock Abbey, one of a number of camera photographs he made in the summer of 1835, may be the oldest camera negative in existence.
photography: Autochrome, the first commercially successful color process, was introduced by the Lumière brothers in 1907.
photography: During the 20th century, both fine art photography and documentary photography became accepted by the English-speaking art world and the gallery system.
photography: Glass plates were the medium for most original camera photography from the late 1850s until the general introduction of flexible plastic films during the 1890s.
photography: Meanwhile, a British inventor, William Fox Talbot, had succeeded in making crude but reasonably light-fast silver images on paper as early as 1834 but had kept his work secret.
photography: Particularly, photos of war and pornography are causing a stir.
photography: These include the camera; dual photography; full-spectrum, ultraviolet and infrared media; light field photography; and other imaging techniques.
photography: The subject being photographed, however, must be illuminated.
photography: While known colloquially as "3-D" photography, the more accurate term is stereoscopy.
photography: What is this quality?
photography: Photographers control the camera and lens to "expose" the light recording material to the required amount of light to form a "latent image" (on plate or film) or RAW file (in digital cameras) which, after appropriate processing, is converted to a usable image.
photography: Only one answer seems possible – significant form.
photography: An off-the-shelf digital camera contains an infrared hot mirror filter that blocks most of the infrared and a bit of the ultraviolet that would otherwise be detected by the sensor, narrowing the accepted range from about 400 nm to 700 nm.
photography: The inventors Nicéphore Niépce, Talbot, and Louis Daguerre seem not to have known or used the word "photography", but referred to their processes as "Heliography" (Niépce), "Photogenic Drawing"/"Talbotype"/"Calotype" (Talbot), and "Daguerreotype" (Daguerre).
photography: Without special film processing, the result would simply be three superimposed black-and-white images, but complementary cyan, magenta, and yellow dye images were created in those layers by adding color couplers during a complex processing procedure.
photography: In South Africa, any person may photograph any other person, without their permission, in public spaces, and the only specific restriction placed on what may not be photographed by the government is related to anything classed as national security.
photography: Implementation of color photography was hindered by the limited sensitivity of early photographic materials, which were mostly sensitive to blue, only slightly sensitive to green, and virtually insensitive to red.
photography: Monochrome printing or electronic display can be used to salvage certain photographs taken in color which are unsatisfactory in their original form; sometimes when presented as black-and-white or single-color-toned images they are found to be more effective.
photography: Photography is the art, application, and practice of creating images by recording light, either electronically by means of an image sensor, or chemically by means of a light-sensitive material such as photographic film.
photography: In 1845 Francis Ronalds, the Honorary Director of the Kew Observatory, invented the first successful camera to make continuous recordings of meteorological and geomagnetic parameters.
photography: Replacing a hot mirror or infrared blocking filter with an infrared pass or a wide spectrally transmitting filter allows the camera to detect the wider spectrum light at greater sensitivity.
photography: He also first understood the relationship between the focal point and the pinhole, and performed early experiments with afterimages, laying the foundations for the invention of photography in the 19th century.
photography: In France, Hippolyte Bayard invented his own process for producing direct positive paper prints and claimed to have invented photography earlier than Daguerre or Talbot.
photography: Improved color sensitizers and ongoing improvements in the overall sensitivity of emulsions steadily reduced the once-prohibitive long exposure times required for color, bringing it ever closer to commercial viability.
photography: Hurter and Driffield began pioneering work on the light sensitivity of photographic emulsions in 1876.
photography: Each country has different laws.
photography: The tones and contrast between light and dark areas define black-and-white photography.
photography: The history of stereoscopic imaging as an artistic and cultural phenomenon was the 
subject of 3D: Double Vision (2018–2019) at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 
described as the first survey of stereoscopic and three-dimensional imaging in a 
North American art museum.
photography: Color photography was explored beginning in the 1840s.
photography: Wildlife photography demonstrates the life of wild animals.
photography: Typically, a lens is used to focus the light reflected or emitted from objects into a real image on the light-sensitive surface inside a camera during a timed exposure.
photography: Niépce was successful again in 1825.
photography: Because his exposures were not simultaneous, unsteady subjects exhibited color "fringes" or, if rapidly moving through the scene, appeared as brightly colored ghosts in the resulting projected or printed images.
photography: The image was recorded on a CCD, an electronic photographic film.
photography: This was common for reproduction photography of flat copy when large film negatives were used (see Process camera).
photography: This difference allows for a degree of image post-processing that is comparatively difficult in film-based photography and permits different communicative potentials and applications.
photography: Many of these photographers work freelance and are contracted through an artist or their management to cover a specific show.
photography: The first transparent plastic roll film followed in 1889.
photography: The camera also proved useful in recording crime scenes and the scenes of accidents, such as the Wootton bridge collapse in 1861.
photography: It is employed in many fields of science, manufacturing (e.g., photolithography), and business, as well as its more direct uses for art, film and video production, recreational purposes, hobby, and mass communication.
photography: Hans-Michael Koetzle: Das Lexikon der Fotografen: 1900 bis heute, Munich, Germany: Knaur 2002, 512 p., ISBN 3-426-66479-8.
photography: In the 6th century CE, Byzantine mathematician Anthemius of Tralles used a type of camera obscura in his experiments.
photography: Digital methods of image capture and display processing have enabled the new technology of "light field photography" (also known as synthetic aperture photography).
photography: Color photography may form images as positive transparencies, which can be used in a slide projector, or as color negatives intended for use in creating positive color enlargements on specially coated paper.
photography: Many photojournalists have declared they will not crop their pictures or are forbidden from combining elements of multiple photos to make "photomontages", passing them as "real" photographs.
photography: Autochrome plates incorporated a mosaic color filter layer made of dyed grains of potato starch, which allowed the three color components to be recorded as adjacent microscopic image fragments.
photography: Fears that disturbing or explicit images are widely accessible to children and society at large have been raised.
photography: linear response curve for digital CCD sensors), (2) resolution, and (3) continuity of tone.
photography: In 1891, Gabriel Lippmann introduced a process for making natural-color photographs based on the optical phenomenon of the interference of light waves.
photography: On 25 February 1839, the German newspaper Vossische Zeitung published an article titled Photographie, discussing several priority claims, especially that of Henry Fox Talbot's, in relation to Daguerre's claim of invention.
photography: (2013), Photography Changes Everything, Aperture Foundation, US.
photography: 360 product photography displays a series of photos to give the impression of a rotating object.
photography: In 1826 he made the View from the Window at Le Gras, the earliest surviving photograph from nature (i.e., of the image of a real-world scene, as formed in a camera obscura by a lens).
photography: The methods used in analysing photographs for use in legal cases are collectively known as forensic photography.
photography: Although its high cost precluded uses other than photojournalism and professional photography, commercial digital photography was born.
photography: 'Although the camera is an observation station, the act of photographing is more than passive observing'.
photography: Because of the superior dimensional stability of glass, the use of plates for some scientific applications, such as astrophotography, continued into the 1990s, and in the niche field of laser holography, it has persisted into the 21st century.
photography: The fiction book Giphantie, published in 1760, by French author Tiphaigne de la Roche, described what can be interpreted as photography.
photography: Leonardo da Vinci mentions natural camerae obscurae that are formed by dark caves on the edge of a sunlit valley.
photography: The result with photographic emulsion is an invisible latent image, which is later chemically "developed" into a visible image, either negative or positive, depending on the purpose of the photographic material and the method of processing.
photography: However, recent changes of in-camera processing allow digital fingerprinting of photos to detect tampering for purposes of forensic photography.
photography: Daguerre's efforts culminated in what would later be named the daguerreotype process.
photography: Agfa's similarly structured Agfacolor Neu was introduced in 1936.
photography: Even though what is depicted in the photographs are real objects, the subject is strictly abstract.
photography: ISBN 0-415-30704-X.
photography: They used an electric field to trap an "Ion" of the element, Ytterbium.
photography: While viewing, a person's eyes and brain merge the separate pictures to create the illusion of motion.
photography: Several people may have coined the same new term from these roots independently.
photography: Although color photography has long predominated, monochrome images are still produced, mostly for artistic reasons.
photography: The dualphoto apparatus can be used to simultaneously capture both the subject and the photographer, or both sides of a geographical place at once, thus adding a supplementary narrative layer to that of a single image.
photography: He used paper or white leather treated with silver nitrate.
photography: Those methods were first used in the Victorian era and improved much further since that time.
photography: Sontag argues, "To photograph is to appropriate the thing photographed.
photography: Daguerreotype to Digital: A Brief History of the Photographic Process – State Library & Archives of Florida
photography: Charles Brooke a little later developed similar instruments for the Greenwich Observatory.
photography: Amateur photographers take photos for personal use, as a hobby or out of casual interest, rather than as a business or job.
photography: He had discovered in 1819 that sodium thiosulphate was a solvent of silver halides, and in 1839 he informed Talbot (and, indirectly, Daguerre) that it could be used to "fix" silver-halide-based photographs and make them completely light-fast.
photography: Heiferman, M.
photography: The invention of the camera has been traced back to the work of Ibn al-Haytham.
photography: In June 1802, British inventor Thomas Wedgwood made the first known attempt to capture the image in a camera obscura by means of a light-sensitive substance.
photography: Partly because he never published his invention adequately, partly because he was an obscure inventor living in a remote and undeveloped province, Hércules Florence died, in Brazil, unrecognized internationally as one of the inventors of photography during his lifetime.
photography: The aesthetics of photography is a matter that continues to be discussed regularly, especially in artistic circles.
photography: The foundation of virtually all practical color processes, Maxwell's idea was to take three separate black-and-white photographs through red, green and blue filters.
photography: Renaissance painters used the camera obscura which, in fact, gives the optical rendering in color that dominates Western art.
photography: One of the practices through which photography constitutes society is tourism.
photography: A large variety of photographic techniques and media are used in the process of capturing images for photography.
photography: A negative image on film is traditionally used to photographically create a positive image on a paper base, known as a print, either by using an enlarger or by contact printing.
photography: ISBN 978-0-240-80405-7.
photography: They deliver news in a creative format that is not only informative, but also entertaining, including sports photography.
photography: The camera doesn't rape or even possess, though it may presume, intrude, trespass, distort, exploit, and, at the farthest reach of metaphor, assassinate – all activities that, unlike the sexual push and shove, can be conducted from a distance, and with some detachment.
photography: Although cellulose acetate or "safety film" had been introduced by Kodak in 1908, at first it found only a few special applications as an alternative to the hazardous nitrate film, which had the advantages of being considerably tougher, slightly more transparent, and cheaper.
photography: The respective recording medium can be the plate or film itself, or a digital magnetic or electronic memory.
photography: This is a highly debated subject within the photographic community.
photography: It often requires great patience and considerable skill and command of the right photographic equipment.
photography: (2012), Criticizing Photographs: an introduction to understanding images, 5th edn, McGraw-Hill, New York.
photography: The changeover was not completed for X-ray films until 1933, and although safety film was always used for 16 mm and 8 mm home movies, nitrate film remained standard for theatrical 35 mm motion pictures until it was finally discontinued in 1951.
photography: Fashion photography, like the work featured in Harper's Bazaar, emphasizes clothes and other products; glamour emphasizes the model and body form while glamour photography is popular in advertising and men's magazines.
photography: More than 99% of photographs taken around the world are through digital cameras, increasingly through smartphones.
photography: Originally, all photography was monochrome, or black-and-white.
photography: camera for back-to-back dualphotography, or two networked cameras for portal-plane dualphotography).
photography: Many artists argued that photography was the mechanical reproduction of an image.
photography: Currently, available color films still employ a multi-layer emulsion and the same principles, most closely resembling Agfa's product.
photography: Dictionary of Photography and Digital Imaging: The Essential Reference for the Modern Photographer.
photography: Advertising photography: There are photographs made to illustrate and usually sell a service or product.
photography: Models in glamour photography sometimes work nude.
photography: In contrast to a still camera, which captures a single snapshot at a time, the movie camera takes a series of images, each called a "frame".
photography: by Michel Frizot, Köln, Germany: Könemann, 1998.
photography: The cyanotype process, for example, produces an image composed of blue tones.
photography: Dualphotography consists of photographing a scene from both sides of a photographic device at once (e.g.
photography: Stereoscopic photography was the first that captured figures in motion.
photography: Kodachrome, the first modern "integral tripack" (or "monopack") color film, was introduced by Kodak in 1935.
photography: Autochrome plates were one of several varieties of additive color screen plates and films marketed between the 1890s and the 1950s.
photography: Digital imaging has raised ethical concerns because of the ease of manipulating digital photographs in post-processing.
photography: Salvesen, Britt, et al.
photography: Unlike Kodachrome, the color couplers in Agfacolor Neu were incorporated into the emulsion layers during manufacture, which greatly simplified the processing.
photography: The first permanent photoetching was an image produced in 1822 by the French inventor Nicéphore Niépce, but it was destroyed in a later attempt to make prints from it.
photography: In parallel to this development, the then largely separate interface between painting and photography was closed in the second half of the 20th century with the chemigram of Pierre Cordier and the chemogram of Josef H.
photography: Every pixel of the final image is actually a selection from each sub-array located under each microlens, as identified by a post-image capture focus algorithm.
photography: Still life photography usually depicts inanimate subject matter, typically commonplace objects which may be either natural or man-made.
photography: The existence of Daguerre's process was publicly announced, without details, on 7 January 1839.
photography: Monochromatic pictures are not necessarily composed of pure blacks, whites, and intermediate shades of gray but can involve shades of one particular hue depending on the process.
photography: Niépce died in 1833 and Daguerre then redirected the experiments toward the light-sensitive silver halides, which Niépce had abandoned many years earlier because of his inability to make the images he captured with them light-fast and permanent.
photography: Stroebel, Leslie (2000).
photography: Food photography is similar to still life photography but requires some special skills.
photography: A Critical Introduction [Paperback], 3rd ed.
photography: Because Niépce's camera photographs required an extremely long exposure (at least eight hours and probably several days), he sought to greatly improve his bitumen process or replace it with one that was more practical.
photography: Photograms are images produced by the shadows of objects cast on the photographic paper, without the use of a camera.
photography: For instance, a photocopy or xerography machine forms permanent images but uses the transfer of static electrical charges rather than photographic medium, hence the term electrophotography.
photography: Photojournalists must be well informed and knowledgeable about events happening right outside their door.
photography: Today's technology has made image editing relatively simple for even the novice photographer.
photography: It was made from highly flammable nitrocellulose known as nitrate film.
photography: The quality of amateur work can be comparable to that of many professionals.
photography: There must be some one quality without which a work of art cannot exist; possessing which, in the least degree, no work is altogether worthless.
photography: This process allows focusing at various depths of field to be selected after the photograph has been captured.
photography: Sontag is concerned that "to photograph is to turn people into objects that can be symbolically possessed".
photography: The news created an international sensation.
photography: (2015), The Photograph as Contemporary Art, 3rd edn, Thames & Hudson, New York.
photography: Before the emergence of digital photography, photographs that utilized film had to be developed to produce negatives or projectable slides, and negatives had to be printed as positive images, usually in enlarged form.
photography: At first, fine art photographers tried to imitate painting styles.
photography: This provides the photographer with the three basic channels required to recreate a color image.
photography: In the United States, photography is protected as a First Amendment right, and anyone is free to photograph anything seen in public spaces as long as it is in plain view.
photography: Event photography focuses on photographing guests and occurrences at mostly social events.
photography: Many advances in photographic glass plates and printing were made during the rest of the 19th century.
photography: Further unease has been caused around cameras in regards to desensitization.
photography: The first permanent color photograph was taken in 1861 using the three-color-separation principle first published by Scottish physicist James Clerk Maxwell in 1855.
photography: This was typically done by photographic laboratories, but many amateur photographers, students, and photographic artists did their own processing.
photography: It was discovered and used in the 16th century by painters.
photography: Digital imaging uses an electronic image sensor to record the image as a set of electronic data rather than as chemical changes on film.
photography: The required exposure time was measured in minutes instead of hours.
photography: Films remained the dominant form of photography until the early 21st century when advances in digital photography drew consumers to digital formats.
photography: Instant color film, used in a special camera which yielded a unique finished color print only a minute or two after the exposure, was introduced by Polaroid in 1963.
photography: Crime scene photography consists of photographing scenes of crime such as robberies and murders.
photography: Along these lines, it can be argued that photography is a subjective form of representation.
photography: Modified digital cameras can detect some ultraviolet, all of the visible and much of the near infrared spectrum, as most digital imaging sensors are sensitive from about 350 nm to 1000 nm.
photography: (2015), The Nature of Photographs, 2nd ed.
photography: While the Mavica saved images to disk, the images were displayed on television, and the camera was not fully digital.
photography: World History of Photography Archived 31 October 2010 at the Wayback Machine From The History of Art.
photography: With an electronic image sensor, this produces an electrical charge at each pixel, which is electronically processed and stored in a digital image file for subsequent display or processing.
photography: The Arab physicist Ibn al-Haytham (Alhazen) (965–1040) also invented a camera obscura as well as the first true pinhole camera.
photography: Film continues to be the preference of some photographers because of its distinctive "look".
photography: It is a box with a small hole in one side, which allows specific light rays to enter, projecting an inverted image onto a viewing screen or paper.
photography: Such cameras have long been realized by using film and more recently in digital electronic methods (including cell phone cameras).
photography: Amateur photography grew during the late 19th century due to the popularization of the hand-held camera.
photography: In each, lines and colors combined in a particular way, certain forms and relations of forms, stir our aesthetic emotions.
photography: People, movement, light and a variety of objects can be used in layering.
photography: ed.), (2013), Understanding a Photograph, Penguin Classics, London, England.
photography: After a transition period centered around 1995–2005, color film was relegated to a niche market by inexpensive multi-megapixel digital cameras.
photography: Concert photography focuses on capturing candid images of both the artist or band as well as the atmosphere (including the crowd).
photography: The essential elements—a silver-plated surface sensitized by iodine vapor, developed by mercury vapor, and "fixed" with hot saturated salt water—were in place in 1837.
photography: 3D: Double Vision.
photography: (2011), Art Photography Now, Thames & Hudson, London, England.
photography: After an Autochrome plate was reversal processed to produce a positive transparency, the starch grains served to illuminate each fragment with the correct color and the tiny colored points blended together in the eye, synthesizing the color of the subject by the additive method.
photography: ISBN 978-0-8174-3789-3.
photography: A person who operates a camera to capture or take photographs is called a photographer, while the captured image, also known as a photograph, is the result produced by the camera.
photography: This series represents the state of the art in film-based photography in the early 1970s and was later translated into multiple languages and published internationally between 1972 and 1983.
photography: In 1974 the chemograms by Josef H.
photography: Architectural photography focuses on capturing photographs of buildings and architectural structures that are aesthetically pleasing and accurate in terms of representations of their subjects.
photography: The first use of the word by Florence became widely known after the research of Boris Kossoy in 1980.
photography: The birth of photography was then concerned with inventing means to capture and keep the image produced by the camera obscura.
photography: Photojournalists create pictures that contribute to the news media, and help communities connect with one other.
photography: (2004), Photography.
photography: Photojournalism can be considered a subset of editorial photography.
photography: In that same year, American photographer Robert Cornelius is credited with taking the earliest surviving photographic self-portrait.
photography: Science regularly uses image technology that has derived from the design of the pinhole camera to avoid distortions that can be caused by lenses.
photography: Williams, Focal Press, 1990, ISBN 0-240-80033-8.
photography: Boston, Massachusetts: Focal Press.
photography: He was the first to use the terms "photography", "negative" and "positive".
photography: As explained by Michael Faraday in 1846, the "light field" is understood as 5-dimensional, with each point in 3-D space having attributes of two more angles that define the direction of each ray passing through that point.
photography: Objects can also be placed directly on the glass of an image scanner to produce digital pictures.
photography: If photography is authentically art, then photography in the context of art would need redefinition, such as determining what component of a photograph makes it beautiful to the viewer.
photography: Conceptual photography turns a concept or idea into a photograph.
photography: It is now usually understood to refer only to still images, but in some cases the term also refers to video used in broadcast journalism.
photography: Routledge, London, England.
photography: Photographs made in this context are accepted as a documentation of a news story.
photography: Their work enabled the first quantitative measure of film speed to be devised.
photography: Digital photography dominates the 21st century.
photography: "The Focal Encyclopedia of Photography", Richard Zakia, Leslie Stroebel, Focal Press 1993, ISBN 0-240-51417-3.
photography: It means putting one's self into a certain relation to the world that feels like knowledge, and therefore like power." Photographers decide what to take a photo of, what elements to exclude and what angle to frame the photo, and these factors may reflect a particular socio-historical context.
photography: The Art of Photography: An Approach to Personal Expression by Bruce Barnbaum, Rocky Nook, 2010, ISBN 1-933952-68-7.
photography: New technological trends in digital photography have opened a new direction in full spectrum photography, where careful filtering choices across the ultraviolet, visible and infrared lead to new artistic visions.
photography: Franz-Xaver Schlegel, Das Leben der toten Dinge – Studien zur modernen Sachfotografie in den USA 1914–1935, 2 Bände, Stuttgart/Germany: Art in Life 1999, ISBN 3-00-004407-8.
photography: The first digital camera to both record and save images in a digital format was the Fujix DS-1P created by Fujifilm in 1988.
photography: The Oxford Companion to the Photograph, ed.
photography: These additional vector attributes can be captured optically through the use of microlenses at each pixel point within the 2-dimensional image sensor.
photography: Transparent prints of the images could be projected through similar color filters and superimposed on the projection screen, an additive method of color reproduction.
photography: The discovery of the camera obscura ("dark chamber" in Latin) that provides an image of a scene dates back to ancient China.
photography: (2009), Photography: The Key Concepts, Bloomsbury, New York.
photography: These images, such as packshots, are generally done with an advertising agency, design firm or with an in-house corporate design team.
photography: Clive Bell in his classic essay Art states that only "significant form" can distinguish art from what is not art.
photography: In partnership with Louis Daguerre, he worked out post-exposure processing methods that produced visually superior results and replaced the bitumen with a more light-sensitive resin, but hours of exposure in the camera were still required.
photography: Concert photographs are often used to promote the artist or band in addition to the venue.
photography: John Hannavy (ed.): Encyclopedia of Nineteenth-Century Photography, 1736 p., New York: Routledge 2005 ISBN 978-0-415-97235-2.
photography: This is accomplished through an intermittent mechanism.
photography: Layers may be incorporated by altering the focal length, distorting the perspective by positioning the camera in a certain spot.
photography: What quality is common to Sta.
photography: Albertus Magnus (1193–1280) discovered silver nitrate, and Georg Fabricius (1516–1571) discovered silver chloride.
photography: A black and white camera or an infrared camera may be used to capture specific details.
photography: The cameras were supplied to numerous observatories around the world and some remained in use until well into the 20th century.
photography: In the UK, the Counter-Terrorism Act (2008) has increased the power of the police to prevent people, even press photographers, from taking pictures in public places.
photography: Los Angeles; Munich: Los Angeles County Museum of Art; DelMonico Books/Prestel, 2018.
photography: There are three subsets to the collodion process; the Ambrotype (a positive image on glass), the Ferrotype or Tintype (a positive image on metal) and the glass negative, which was used to make positive prints on albumen or salted paper.
photography: Greek mathematicians Aristotle and Euclid independently described a camera obscura in the 5th and 4th centuries BCE.
photography: Russian photographer Sergei Mikhailovich Prokudin-Gorskii made extensive use of this color separation technique, employing a special camera which successively exposed the three color-filtered images on different parts of an oblong plate.
photography: Some full-color digital images are processed using a variety of techniques to create black-and-white results, and some manufacturers produce digital cameras that exclusively shoot monochrome.
photography: Photography is one of the new media forms that changes perception and changes the structure of society.
photography: In the March 1851 issue of The Chemist, Frederick Scott Archer published his wet plate collodion process.
photography: It became the most widely used photographic medium until the gelatin dry plate, introduced in the 1870s, eventually replaced it.
photography: Early experiments in color required extremely long exposures (hours or days for camera images) and could not "fix" the photograph to prevent the color from quickly fading when exposed to white light.
photography: ISBN 9783791356686
Shore, S.
photography: Real estate photography focuses on the production of photographs showcasing a property that is for sale, such photographs requires the use of wide-lens and extensive knowledge in high-dynamic-range imaging photography.
photography: In 1991, Kodak unveiled the DCS 100, the first commercially available digital single-lens reflex camera.
photography: On 7 February 2007, Sotheby's London sold the 2001 photograph 99 Cent II Diptychon for an unprecedented $3,346,456 to an anonymous bidder, making it the most expensive at the time.
photography: A hole in the cave wall will act as a pinhole camera and project a laterally reversed, upside down image on a piece of paper.
photography: With an eye to eventual commercial exploitation, the partners opted for total secrecy.
photography: Moreover, Daguerre informed the Academy of Science in Paris on 7 January 1840 of the invention.
photography: What quality is shared by all objects that provoke our aesthetic emotions?
photography: The frames are later played back in a movie projector at a specific speed, called the "frame rate" (number of frames per second).
photography: Wildlife photography involves capturing images of various forms of wildlife.
photography: Daniele Barbaro described a diaphragm in 1566.
photography: One layer was sensitized to record the red-dominated part of the spectrum, another layer recorded only the green part and a third recorded only the blue.
photography: He made the first glass negative in late 1839.
photography: Without the hot-mirror, the red, green and blue (or cyan, yellow and magenta) colored micro-filters placed over the sensor elements pass varying amounts of ultraviolet (blue window) and infrared (primarily red and somewhat lesser the green and blue micro-filters).
photography: In Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window (1954), the camera is presented as promoting voyeurism.
photography: Even after color film was readily available, black-and-white photography continued to dominate for decades, due to its lower cost, chemical stability, and its "classic" photographic look.
photography: Still life is a broader category for food and some natural photography and can be used for advertising purposes.
photography: The distinctive "look" of film based photographs compared to digital images is likely due to a combination of factors, including (1) differences in spectral and tonal sensitivity (S-shaped density-to-exposure (H&D curve) with film vs.
photography: X-ray machines are similar in design to pinhole cameras, with high-grade filters and laser radiation.
photography: It captured the three color components in a multi-layer emulsion.
photography: This technique is commonly used by ecommerce websites to help shoppers visualise products.
