physiology: The biological basis of the study of physiology, integration refers to the overlap of many functions of the systems of the human body, as well as its accompanied form.
physiology: Moat, A.G., Foster, J.W., Spector, M.P.
physiology: Physiological plant ecology (4th ed.).
physiology: William Beaumont was the first American to utilize the practical application of physiology.
physiology: Widmaier, E.P., Raff, H., Strang, K.T.
physiology: In 1811, César Julien Jean Legallois studied respiration in animal dissection and lesions and found the center of respiration in the medulla oblongata.
physiology: In 1791 Luigi Galvani described the role of electricity in the nerves of dissected frogs.
physiology: Galen was also the founder of experimental physiology.
physiology: It radically stated that organisms are made up of units called cells.
physiology: Springer, 2001.
physiology: The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine is awarded by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences for exceptional scientific achievements in physiology related to the field of medicine.
physiology: Genetics is the study of heredity and the variation of traits within and between populations.
physiology: Much of the foundation of knowledge in human physiology was provided by animal experimentation.
physiology: Central to physiological functioning are biophysical and biochemical processes, homeostatic control mechanisms, and communication between cells.
physiology: Physiological state is the condition of normal function.
physiology: Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, 2012.
physiology: Larcher, W.
physiology: Recently, there have been intense debates about the vitality of physiology as a discipline (Is it dead or alive?).
physiology: Brooks/Cole Pub Co., 1992.
physiology: Boston, MA, 2008.
physiology: Hippocrates incorporated the theory of humorism, which consisted of four basic substances: earth, water, air and fire.
physiology: Algal physiology
physiology: Vander's Human Physiology.
physiology: Pearson/Benjamin Cummings.
physiology: Wiley-Liss, New York, 1994.
physiology: In 1824, François Magendie described the sensory roots and produced the first evidence of the cerebellum's role in equilibration to complete the Bell–Magendie law.
physiology: New York, NY, 2002.
physiology: Evolutionary biology is the study of the processes that have led to the diversity of life on Earth.
physiology: The principal level of focus of physiology is at the level of organs and systems within systems.
physiology: Fundamental processes of plant physiology include photosynthesis, respiration, plant nutrition, tropisms, nastic movements, photoperiodism, photomorphogenesis, circadian rhythms, seed germination, dormancy, and stomata function and transpiration.
physiology: And for the next 1,400 years, Galenic physiology was a powerful and influential tool in medicine.
physiology: Claude Bernard's (1813–1878) further discoveries ultimately led to his concept of milieu interieur (internal environment), which would later be taken up and championed as "homeostasis" by American physiologist Walter B.
physiology: Griffin, D.H.
physiology: Furthermore, physiology is still often seen as an integrative discipline, which can put together into a coherent framework data coming from various different domains.
physiology: It is achieved through communication that occurs in a variety of ways, both electrical and chemical.
physiology: 130–200 AD) was the first to use experiments to probe the functions of the body.
physiology: 11th Edition, McGraw-Hill, 2009.
physiology: Cambridge & New York: Cambridge University Press, 1997.
physiology: In 1858, Joseph Lister studied the cause of blood coagulation and inflammation that resulted after previous injuries and surgical wounds.
physiology: Cambridge University Press, 1997.
physiology: Volumes 1, 2, and 3.
physiology: Involving evolutionary physiology and environmental physiology, comparative physiology considers the diversity of functional characteristics across organisms.
physiology: Changes in physiology can impact the mental functions of individuals.
physiology: Soon thereafter, in 1913, J.S.
physiology: If physiology is perhaps less visible nowadays than during the golden age of the 19th century, it is in large part because the field has given birth to some of the most active domains of today's biological sciences, such as neuroscience, endocrinology, and immunology.
physiology: Marieb, E.N.
physiology: Levandowski, M., Hutner, S.H.
physiology: Comparative animal physiology.
physiology: Springer-Verlag, Berlin-Heidelberg, 2008.
physiology: Taiz, L., Zieger, E.
physiology: Hippocrates also noted some emotional connections to the four humors, on which Galen would later expand.
physiology: Plant Physiology (5th ed.), Sunderland, Massachusetts: Sinauer, 2010.
physiology: In contrast, pathological state refers to abnormal conditions, including human diseases.
physiology: Wiley-Liss, Inc.
physiology: The endocrine and nervous systems play major roles in the reception and transmission of signals that integrate function in animals.
physiology: Cannon in 1929.
physiology: Haldane proposed that women be allowed to formally join The Physiological Society, which had been founded in 1876.
physiology: Unlike Hippocrates, Galen argued that humoral imbalances can be located in specific organs, including the entire body.
physiology: It seeks to understand the mechanisms that work to keep the human body alive and functioning, through scientific enquiry into the nature of mechanical, physical, and biochemical functions of humans, their organs, and the cells of which they are composed.
physiology: Moreover, they discovered the Cori cycle, also known as the Lactic acid cycle, which describes how muscle tissue converts glycogen into lactic acid via lactic acid fermentation.
physiology: Physiological Adaptations of Protists.
physiology: According to the classes of organisms, the field can be divided into medical physiology, animal physiology, plant physiology, cell physiology, and comparative physiology.
physiology: Plant physiology.
physiology: Knowledge of biochemistry provides the foundation for understanding cellular and molecular processes that are essential to the functioning of organisms.
physiology: In the same year, Charles Bell finished work on what would later become known as the Bell–Magendie law, which compared functional differences between dorsal and ventral roots of the spinal cord.
physiology: where the organs, comparable to workers, work incessantly to produce the phenomena that constitute the life of the individual." In more differentiated organisms, the functional labor could be apportioned between different instruments or systems (called by him as appareils).
physiology: Animal Physiology: Adaptation and Environment.
physiology: Bacterial Physiology: A Molecular Approach.
physiology: He later discovered and implemented antiseptics in the operating room, and as a result, decreased the death rate from surgery by a substantial amount.
physiology: The centenary of the election of women was celebrated in 2015 with the publication of the book "Women Physiologists: Centenary Celebrations And Beyond For The Physiological Society." (ISBN 978-0-9933410-0-7)
Prominent women physiologists include:
physiology: The American Physiological Society, for example, was founded in 1887 and included only men in its ranks.
physiology: Academic Press: New York, NY, 1979; 2nd ed.
physiology: Hyde, a representative of the American Association of University Women, a global non-profit organization that advances equity for women and girls in education, attempted to promote gender equality in every aspect of science and medicine.
physiology: As a subdiscipline of biology, physiology focuses on how organisms, organ systems, individual organs, cells, and biomolecules carry out chemical and physical functions in a living system.
physiology: Closely related fields include plant morphology, plant ecology, phytochemistry, cell biology, genetics, biophysics, and molecular biology.
physiology: Bacterial physiology
physiology: In 1954, Andrew Huxley and Hugh Huxley, alongside their research team, discovered the sliding filaments in skeletal muscle, known today as the sliding filament theory.
physiology: Randall, D., Burggren, W., and French, K.
physiology: Fungal Physiology, Second Edition.
physiology: Françoise Barré-Sinoussi, along with Luc Montagnier, received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2008 for their work on the identification of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), the cause of Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS).
physiology: Plant physiology
physiology: In: Cell physiology sourcebook: essentials of membrane biophysics.
physiology: Berkeley, California: University of California Press; 1984.
physiology: Withers, P.C.
physiology: On 3 July 1915, six women were officially admitted: Florence Buchanan, Winifred Cullis, Ruth Skelton, Sarah C.
physiology: Hall, John (2011).
physiology: ISBN 978-1-4160-4574-8.
physiology: Fungal physiology
physiology: Santorio Santorio in 1610s was the first to use a device to measure the pulse rate (the pulsilogium), and a thermoscope to measure temperature.
physiology: Blackwell Scientific Publications, Oxford, 1974.
physiology: Greider and Jack W.
physiology: Moyes, C.D., Schulte, P.M.
physiology: Lobban, C.S., Harrison, P.J.
physiology: Salisbury, F.B, Ross, C.W.
physiology: Szostak, was awarded the 2009 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of the genetic composition and function of telomeres and the enzyme called telomerase.
physiology: Microbial Physiology, 4th ed.
physiology: The Society is, "devoted to fostering education, scientific research, and dissemination of information in the physiological sciences."
In 1891, Ivan Pavlov performed research on "conditional responses" that involved dogs' saliva production in response to a bell and visual stimuli.
physiology: Physiology (; from Ancient Greek  φύσις (phúsis) 'nature, origin' and  -λογία (-logía) 'study of') is the scientific study of functions and mechanisms in a living system.
physiology: Algal Physiology and Biochemistry.
physiology: Elizabeth Blackburn, along with Carol W.
physiology: Principles of Animal Physiology, second edition.
physiology: Anatomy is the study of the structure and organization of living organisms, from the microscopic level of cells and tissues to the macroscopic level of organs and systems.
physiology: Examples of this would be the effects of certain medications or toxic levels of substances.
physiology: El-Sharoud, W.
physiology: Galen also saw the human body consisting of three connected systems: the brain and nerves, which are responsible for thoughts and sensations; the heart and arteries, which give life; and the liver and veins, which can be attributed to nutrition and growth.
physiology: Change in behavior as a result of these substances is often used to assess the health of individuals.
physiology: Guyton and Hall textbook of medical physiology (12th ed.).
physiology: McClintock is the only female recipient who has won an unshared Nobel Prize.
physiology: Levandowsky, M.
physiology: Gertrude Elion, along with George Hitchings and Sir James Black, received the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1988 for their development of drugs employed in the treatment of several major diseases, such as leukemia, some autoimmune disorders, gout, malaria, and viral herpes.
physiology: A Functional Biology of Free-Living Protozoa.
physiology: It provides insights into the genetic basis of physiological processes and the ways in which genes interact with the environment to influence an organism's phenotype.
physiology: Understanding human physiology is essential for diagnosing and treating health conditions and promoting overall wellbeing.
physiology: The critical thinking of Aristotle and his emphasis on the relationship between structure and function marked the beginning of physiology in Ancient Greece.
physiology: Cambridge, 2008.
physiology: Schmidt-Nielsen, K.
physiology: Absorption of water by roots, production of food in the leaves, and growth of shoots towards light are examples of plant physiology.
physiology: Hill, R.W., Wyse, G.A., Anderson, M.
physiology: Amsterdam; Boston: Elsevier/AP, 2012.
physiology: Gerty Cori, along with her husband Carl Cori, received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1947 for their discovery of the phosphate-containing form of glucose known as glycogen, as well as its function within eukaryotic metabolic mechanisms for energy production.
physiology: Biochemistry and physiology of protozoa.
physiology: Like Hippocrates, Aristotle took to the humoral theory of disease, which also consisted of four primary qualities in life: hot, cold, wet and dry.
physiology: Sowton, Constance Leetham Terry, and Enid M.
physiology: Eckert Animal Physiology: Mechanism and Adaptation, 5th Edition.
physiology: Anatomical knowledge is important in physiology because the structure and function of an organism are often dictated by one another.
physiology: By homeostasis, Cannon meant "the maintenance of steady states in the body and the physiological processes through which they are regulated." In other words, the body's ability to regulate its internal environment.
physiology: In the 19th century, physiological knowledge began to accumulate at a rapid rate, in particular with the 1838 appearance of the cell theory of Matthias Schleiden and Theodor Schwann.
physiology: Outside of Western tradition, early forms of physiology or anatomy can be reconstructed as having been present at around the same time in China, India and elsewhere.
physiology: Saunders College Publishing, New York, 1992.
physiology: Laybourn-Parry J.
physiology: Galen also played off of Hippocrates' idea that emotions were also tied to the humors, and added the notion of temperaments: sanguine corresponds with blood; phlegmatic is tied to phlegm; yellow bile is connected to choleric; and black bile corresponds with melancholy.
physiology: Seaweed ecology and physiology.
physiology: Kim, B.H., Gadd, M.G.
physiology: Homeostasis is a major aspect with regard to such interactions within plants as well as animals.
physiology: Major figures in these fields include Knut Schmidt-Nielsen and George Bartholomew.
physiology: Bacterial Physiology and Metabolism.
physiology: It includes the study of the nervous, endocrine, cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, and urinary systems, as well as cellular and exercise physiology.
physiology: Philadelphia, PA: Saunders/Elsevier.
physiology: Each substance is known for having a corresponding humor: black bile, phlegm, blood, and yellow bile, respectively.
physiology: Due to the frequent connection between form and function, physiology and anatomy are intrinsically linked and are studied in tandem as part of a medical curriculum.
physiology: Freeman and Company, 2002.
physiology: 10th Edition, Benjamin Cummings, 2012.
physiology: Barbara McClintock was rewarded the 1983 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of genetic transposition.
physiology: The American Physiological Society (APS) is a nonprofit organization that was founded in 1887.
physiology: It helps to explain the origin and adaptive significance of physiological processes and the ways in which organisms have evolved to cope with their environment.
physiology: Animal Physiology, 3rd ed.
physiology: Galen, Ibn al-Nafis, Michael Servetus, Realdo Colombo, Amato Lusitano and William Harvey, are credited as making important discoveries about the circulatory system.
physiology: Animal physiology
physiology: The Physiological Society was founded in London in 1876 as a dining club.
physiology: Biochemistry is the study of the chemical processes and substances that occur within living organisms.
physiology: Most recently, evolutionary physiology has become a distinct subdiscipline.
physiology: Nineteenth-century physiologists such as Michael Foster, Max Verworn, and Alfred Binet, based on Haeckel's ideas, elaborated what came to be called "general physiology", a unified science of life based on the cell actions, later renamed in the 20th century as cell biology.
physiology: Buck, along with Richard Axel, received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2004 for their discovery of odorant receptors and the complex organization of the olfactory system.
physiology: Biophysics is the study of the physical properties of living organisms and their interactions with their environment.
physiology: It helps to explain how organisms sense and respond to different stimuli, such as light, sound, and temperature, and how they maintain homeostasis, or a stable internal environment.
physiology: Essentials of Human Anatomy and Physiology.
physiology: Bodil Schmidt-Nielsen, the first woman president of the American Physiological Society in 1975.
physiology: In 1902, the American Physiological Society elected Ida Hyde as the first female member of the society.
physiology: Stewart, W.
physiology: Protistan physiology
physiology: In 1920, August Krogh won the Nobel Prize for discovering how, in capillaries, blood flow is regulated.
