platonism: Nature therefore is a whole, endowed with life and soul.
platonism: "He's very much awake."
platonism: Many Platonic notions secured a permanent place in Christianity.
platonism: In the third century, Plotinus recast Plato's system, establishing Neoplatonism, in which Middle Platonism was fused with mysticism.
platonism: Virtue is knowledge, the recognition of the supreme form of the good.
platonism: In Middle Platonism, the Platonic Forms were not transcendent but immanent to rational minds, and the physical world was a living, ensouled being, the World-Soul.
platonism: This phase, known as the Middle Academy, strongly emphasized philosophical skepticism.
platonism: The multitude of objects of sense, being involved in perpetual change, are thereby deprived of all genuine existence.
platonism: This can apply to properties, types, propositions, meanings, numbers, sets, truth values, and so on (see abstract object theory).
platonism: Later Neoplatonism, beginning with Plotinus, identified the Good of the Republic with the transcendent, absolute One of the first hypothesis of the Parmenides (137c-142a).
platonism: In many interpretations of the Timaeus Platonism, like Aristotelianism, poses an eternal universe, as opposed to the nearby Judaic tradition that the universe had been created in historical time, with its continuous history recorded.
platonism: The primary concept is the Theory of Forms.
platonism: Cassirer, Ernst.
platonism: The Ancient Theology: Studies in Christian Platonism from the Fifteenth to the Eighteenth Century.
platonism: Orthodox Protestantism in continental Europe, however, distrusts natural reason and has often been critical of Platonism.
platonism: Conceptions derived from the impressions of sense can never give us the knowledge of true being, i.e., of the forms.
platonism: Toronto: Univ.
platonism: Apart from historical Platonism originating from thinkers such as Plato and Plotinus, we also encounter the theory of abstract objects in the modern sense.
platonism: Edinburgh: Nelson, 1953.
platonism: At the heart of Plato's philosophy is the theory of the soul.
platonism: The only true being is founded upon the forms, the eternal, unchangeable, perfect types, of which particular objects of moral and responsible sense are imperfect copies.
platonism: In the 3rd century AD, Plotinus added additional mystical elements, establishing Neoplatonism, in which the summit of existence was the One or the Good, the source of all things; in virtue and meditation the soul had the power to elevate itself to attain union with the One.
platonism: Don't you think he is living in a dream rather than a wakened state?
platonism: The New Academy began with Carneades in 155 BC, the fourth head in succession from Arcesilaus.
platonism: The school continued there long after Plato's death.
platonism: Leibniz and Hermann Lotze as inspirations for his position in his Logical Investigations (1900–1).
platonism: Pre-eminence in this period belongs to Plutarch.
platonism: At the summit of existence stands the One or the Good, as the source of all things.
platonism: Translated by Asbury Samuel Ralph.
platonism: (Republic Bk.
platonism: Plato's works have been decisively influential for 20th century philosophers such as Alfred North Whitehead and his Process Philosophy; and for the critical realism and metaphysics of Nicolai Hartmann.
platonism: Cherniss, scholar of Plato's relation to Aristotle
platonism: Platonism has had a profound influence on Western thought.
platonism: Translated by James P.
platonism: Walker, Daniel Pickering.
platonism: Plato delivered his lectures at the Platonic Academy, a precinct containing a sacred grove outside the walls of Athens.
platonism: An Examination of Plato's Doctrines, vol.
platonism: Augustine was heavily influenced by Platonism as well, which he encountered through the Latin translations of Marius Victorinus of the works of Porphyry and/or Plotinus.
platonism: The following excerpt may be representative of Plato's middle period metaphysics and epistemology:
platonism: The academy persisted until Roman emperor Justinian closed it in 529.
platonism: And, since in this cognition, the three parts of the soul, which are reason, spirit, and appetite, all have their share, we get the three virtues, Wisdom, Courage, and Moderation.
platonism: The Christian Element in Plato and the Platonic philosophy.
platonism: Platonism was considered authoritative in the Middle Ages.
platonism: Geometry was the main motivation of Plato, and this also shows the influence of Pythagoras.
platonism: Aristotle's Third Man Argument is its most famous criticism in antiquity.
platonism: Platonism also influenced both Eastern and Western mysticism.
platonism: Abstract objects are asserted to exist in a third realm distinct from both the sensible external world and from the internal world of consciousness.
platonism: Isn't that so?"
"Certainly."
"What about someone who believes in beautiful things, but doesn't believe in the beautiful itself and isn't able to follow anyone who could lead him to the knowledge of it?
platonism: Meanwhile, Platonism influenced various philosophers such as at the School of Chartres.
platonism: An issue in the reception of Plato in early modern Europe was how to deal with the same-sex elements of his corpus.
platonism: Kristeller, Paul Oskar, "Renaissance Platonism." In Renaissance Thought: the Classic, Scholastic, and Humanistic Strains.
platonism: London: Duckworth, 1972.
platonism: Platonism in this sense is a contemporary view.
platonism: According to the Methodist Church, Christoplatonism directly "contradicts the Biblical record of God calling everything He created good."
platonism: Other prominent contemporary Continental philosophers interested in Platonism in a general sense include Leo Strauss, Simone Weil, and Alain Badiou.
platonism: Members included Giovanni Pico della Mirandolla.
platonism: Platonism was originally expressed in the dialogues of Plato, in which the figure of Socrates is used to expound certain doctrines, that may or may not be similar to the thought of the historical Socrates, Plato's master.
platonism: The number of the forms is defined by the number of universal concepts which can be derived from the particular objects of sense.
platonism: The Platonic Academy was re-established during this period; its most renowned head was Proclus (died 485), a celebrated commentator on Plato's writings.
platonism: Many ideas of Plato were incorporated by the Roman Catholic Church.
platonism: Arturo Reghini, an Italian esotericist and collaborator of Evola, also promoted Neoplatonic ideas in his efforts to revive ancient Roman religion.
platonism: The world-soul, the copy of the nous, is generated by and contained in it, as the nous is in the One, and, by informing matter in itself nonexistent, constitutes bodies whose existence is contained in the world-soul.
platonism: It can only be obtained by the soul's activity within itself, apart from the troubles and disturbances of sense; that is to say, by the exercise of reason.
platonism: While Aristotle became more influential than Plato in the 13th century, St.
platonism: Dialectic, as the instrument in this process, leading us to knowledge of the forms, and finally to the highest form of the Good, is the first of sciences.
platonism: The chief figures in the Old Academy were Speusippus (Plato's nephew), who succeeded him as the head of the school (until 339 BC), and Xenocrates (until 313 BC).
platonism: "The Final Proof of the Immortality of the Soul in Plato's Phaedo 102a–107a".
platonism: Platonism is the view that there exist such things as abstract objects — where an abstract object is an object that does not exist in space or time and which is therefore entirely non-physical and non-mental.
platonism: Phronesis, 23.1: 27–41.
platonism: Francis Cornford described the twin pillars of Platonism as being the theory of the Forms, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the doctrine of the immortality of the soul.
platonism: Soul, being chained to matter, longs to escape from the bondage of the body and return to its original source.
platonism: Platonism or Platonic realism affirms the real existence of forms or abstract objects, originally to solve the problem of universals.
platonism: Unlike Aristotelianism, Platonism describes idea as prior to matter and identifies the person with the soul.
platonism: Around 90 BC, Antiochus of Ascalon rejected skepticism, making way for the period known as Middle Platonism, in which Platonism was fused with certain Peripatetic and many Stoic dogmas.
platonism: The Platonic Renaissance in England.
platonism: Thomas Aquinas's philosophy was still in certain respects fundamentally Platonic.
platonism: Pettegrove.
platonism: Grube)
Book VI of the Republic identifies the highest form as the Form of the Good, the cause of all other Ideas, and that on which the being and knowing of all other Forms is contingent.
platonism: Paul Benacerraf's epistemological challenge to contemporary Platonism has proved its most influential criticism.
platonism: There were three periods: the Old, Middle, and New Academy.
platonism: Julius Evola incorporated Platonic metaphysics into his vision of Roman pagan revival, aligning with his Traditionalist critique of modernity.
platonism: Edinburgh: T.
platonism: Clark, 1861.
platonism: In 16th-, 17th-, and 19th-century England, Plato's ideas influenced many religious thinkers including the Cambridge Platonists.
platonism: It was still largely skeptical, denying the possibility of knowing an absolute truth; both Arcesilaus and Carneades argued that they were maintaining a genuine tenet of Plato.
platonism: Plotinus' disciple, Porphyry, followed by Iamblichus, developed the system in conscious opposition to Christianity—even as many influential early Christian writers took inspiration from it in their conceptions of monotheistic theology.
platonism: Platonist ethics is based on the Form of the Good.
platonism: New York: Harper, 1961.
platonism: Plato established the Academy, and in the 3rd century BC, Arcesilaus adopted academic skepticism, which became a central tenet of the school until 90 BC when Antiochus added Stoic elements, rejected skepticism, and began a period known as Middle Platonism.
platonism: Platonism is the philosophy of Plato and philosophical systems closely derived from it, considered the opposite of nominalism, or anti-realism.
platonism: of Toronto Press
Crombie, Ian 1962.
platonism: The bond which unites the other virtues is the virtue of Justice, by which each part of the soul is confined to the performance of its proper function.
platonism: Platonism had a profound effect on Western thought.
platonism: Dorter, Kenneth.
platonism: Frede, Dorothea.
platonism: Platonic ideas saw a further revival in the Renaissance and in contemporary analytic philosophy with the rise of mathematical platonism in modern philosophy of mathematics.
platonism: It was characterized by its attacks on the Stoics and their assertion of the certainty of truth and our knowledge of it.
platonism: This modern Platonism has been endorsed in one way or another at one time or another by numerous philosophers, such as Bernard Bolzano, who argue for anti-psychologism.
platonism: Iris Murdoch espoused Platonism in moral philosophy in her 1970 book The Sovereignty of Good.
platonism: Both of them sought to fuse Pythagorean speculations on number with Plato's theory of forms.
platonism: Around 266 BC, Arcesilaus became head of the academy.
platonism: It generates from itself, as if from the reflection of its own being, reason, the nous, wherein is contained the infinite store of ideas.
platonism: The Forms are typically described in dialogues such as the Phaedo, Symposium and Republic as perfect archetypes of which objects in the everyday world are imperfect copies.
platonism: London: Routledge.
platonism: [Socrates:] "Since the beautiful is opposite of the ugly, they are two."
[Glaucon:] "Of course."
"And since they are two, each is one?"
"I grant that also."
"And the same account is true of the just and unjust, the good and the bad, and all the forms.
platonism: V, 475e-476d, translation G.
platonism: Quine, David Kaplan, Saul Kripke, Edward Zalta and Peter van Inwagen.
platonism: Plato's Phaedo: An Interpretation.
platonism: The eclectic nature of Platonism during this time is shown by its incorporation into Pythagoreanism (Numenius of Apamea) and into Jewish philosophy (Philo of Alexandria).
platonism: In virtue and philosophical thought it has the power to elevate itself above the reason into a state of ecstasy, where it can behold, or ascend to, that one good primary Being whom reason cannot know.
platonism: To attain this union with the Good, or the One is the true function of human beings.
platonism: Contemporary analytic philosophers who espoused Platonism in metaphysics include Bertrand Russell, Alonzo Church, Kurt Gödel, W.
platonism: Marsilio Ficino's Florentine Academy was an attempt to revive Plato's Academy.
