playwright: We have complete texts extant by Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides.
playwright: He developed his notion of hamartia, or tragic flaw, an error in judgment by the main character or protagonist, which provides the basis for the "conflict-driven" play.
playwright: Playwrights like Colley Cibber and Richard Steele believed that humans were inherently good but capable of being led astray.
playwright: Playwright William Shakespeare remains arguably the most influential writer in the English language, and his works continue to be studied and reinterpreted.
playwright: During the Cretan Renaissance two notable Greek playwrights Georgios Chortatzis and Vitsentzos Kornaros were present in the latter part of the 16th century.
playwright: Funding through national organizations, such as the National Endowment for the Arts and the Theatre Communications Group, encouraged the partnerships of professional theatre companies and emerging playwrights.
playwright: Jonson described himself as a poet, not a playwright, since plays during that time were written in meter and so were regarded as the province of poets.
playwright: No longer the only outlet for serious drama or entertaining comedies, theatrical productions must use ticket sales as a source of income, which has caused many of them to reduce the number of new works being produced.
playwright: In England, The Second Shepherds' Play of the Wakefield Cycle is the best known early farce.
playwright: Ben Jonson coined the term playwright and is the first person in English literature to refer to playwrights as separate from poets.
playwright: Cold reading means that the actors haven't rehearsed the work, or may be seeing it for the first time, and usually, the technical requirements are minimal.
playwright: This meant that the playwright had to construct the play so that its "virtual" time would not exceed 24 hours, that it would be restricted to a single setting, and that there would be no subplots.
playwright: Neoclassicism never had as much traction in England, and Shakespeare's plays are directly opposed to these models, while in Italy, improvised and bawdy commedia dell'arte and opera were more popular forms.
playwright: The O'Neill Festival offers summer retreats for young playwrights to develop their work with directors and actors.
playwright: Jonson uses the word in his Epigram 49, which is thought to refer to John Marston or Thomas Dekker:
playwright: Notable playwrights:
playwright: Playwriting collectives like 13P and Orbiter 3 gather members together to produce, rather than develop, new works.
playwright: Contemporary playwrights in the United States are affected by recent declines in theatre attendance.
playwright: The origins of Athenian tragedy remain obscure, though by the 5th century it was institutionalised in competitions (agon) held as part of festivities celebrating Dionysos (the god of wine and fertility).
playwright: For example, Playwrights Horizons produced only six plays in the 2002–03 seasons, compared with thirty-one in 1973–74.
playwright: He then considered elements of drama: plot (μύθος mythos), character (ἔθος ethos), thought (dianoia), diction (lexis), music (melodia), and spectacle (opsis).
playwright: This period saw the first professional woman playwright, Aphra Behn.
playwright: The idea of the playwriting collective is in response to plays being stuck in the development process and never advancing to production.
playwright: Many regional theatres have hired dramaturges and literary managers in an effort to showcase various festivals for new work, or bring in playwrights for residencies.
playwright: (The homophone with write is coincidental.)
The first recorded use of the term playwright is from 1605, 73 years before the first written record of the term dramatist.
playwright: This is the source of the English word poet.
playwright: This view was held as late as the early 19th century.
playwright: The term "playwright" later again lost this negative connotation.
playwright: His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright.
playwright: It contains satirical scenes and folk material such as faeries and other supernatural occurrences.
playwright: The words combine to indicate a person who has wrought words, themes, and other elements into a dramatic form — a play.
playwright: It appears to have been first used in a pejorative sense by Ben Jonson to suggest a mere tradesman fashioning works for the theatre.
playwright: Other terms, such as verisimilitude and decorum, circumscribed the subject matter significantly.
playwright: One structural unit that is still useful to playwrights today is the "French scene", which is a scene in a play where the beginning and end are marked by a change in the makeup of the group of characters onstage rather than by the lights going up or down or the set being changed.
playwright: Pierre Corneille (1606–84)
Molière (1622–73)
Jean Racine (1639–99)
playwright: Character was determined by choice and by action.
playwright: Most playwrights of the period typically collaborated with others at some point, as critics agree Shakespeare did, mostly early and late in his career.
playwright: Decorum fitted proper protocols for behavior and language on stage.
playwright: Tragedy is mimesis — "the imitation of an action that is serious".
playwright: William Shakespeare is amongst the most famous playwrights in literature, both in England and across the world.
playwright: However, farce did not appear independently in England until the 16th century with the work of John Heywood (1497–1580).
playwright: In France, contained too many events and actions, thus, violating the 24-hour restriction of the unity of time.
playwright: For instance, filmmaker Morgan Spurlock began his career as a playwright, winning awards for his play The Phoenix at both the New York International Fringe Festival in 1999 and the Route 66 American Playwriting Competition in 2000.
playwright: Outside of the Western world there is Indian classical drama, with one of the oldest known playwrights being Śudraka, whose attributed plays can be dated to the second century BC.
playwright: Such notables as Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, and Aristophanes established forms still relied on by their modern counterparts.
playwright: The Nāṭya Shāstra, a text on the performing arts from between 500BC-500AD, categorizes playwrights as being among the members of a theatre company, although playwrights were generally the highest in social status, with some being kings.
playwright: Many playwrights are also film makers.
playwright: As a result, critics of the time mostly rated Shakespeare below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson.
playwright: The earliest playwrights in Western literature with surviving works are the Ancient Greeks.
playwright: Farces also rose dramatically in popularity after the 13th century.
playwright: Playwrights commonly encounter difficulties in getting their shows produced and often cannot earn a living through their plays alone, leading them to take up other jobs to supplement their incomes.
playwright: For example, verisimilitude limits of the unities.
playwright: For the ancient Greeks, playwriting involved poïesis, "the act of making".
playwright: These early plays were for annual Athenian competitions among play writers held around the 5th century BC.
playwright: The word wright is an archaic English term for a craftsperson or builder (as in a wheelwright or cartwright).
playwright: Between the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 and the end of the 17th century, classical ideas were in vogue.
playwright: Aleksandr Ostrovsky  was Russia's first professional playwright).
playwright: A playwright or dramatist is a person who writes plays, which are a form of drama that primarily consists of dialogue between characters and is intended for theatrical performance rather than just
reading.
playwright: In England, after the interregnum, and Restoration of the monarchy in 1660, there was a move toward neoclassical dramaturgy.
playwright: The majority of these plays come from France and Germany and are similar in tone and form, emphasizing sex and bodily excretions.
playwright: The neoclassical ideal, which was to reach its apogee in France during the 17th century, dwelled upon the unities, of action, place, and time.
playwright: Playwrights will often have a cold reading of a script in an informal sitdown setting, which allows them to evaluate their own plays and the actors performing them.
playwright: Since the myths on which Greek tragedy were based were widely known, plot had to do with the arrangement and selection of existing material.
playwright: The best known playwright of farces is Hans Sachs (1494–1576) who wrote 198 dramatic works.
playwright: As a reaction to the decadence of Charles II era productions, sentimental comedy grew in popularity.
