polymer: Select common techniques include the following:
polymer: Plasticizers are generally small molecules that are chemically similar to the polymer and create gaps between polymer chains for greater mobility and fewer interchain interactions.
polymer: Security: personal protective equipment, bulletproof vests, space suits, ropes.
polymer: In the solid state, the respective conformations of the molecules are frozen.
polymer: Academic Press.
polymer: There are also branched macromolecules with a main chain and side chains, in the case of polyethylene the side chains would be alkyl groups.
polymer: A polymer which contains only a single type of repeat unit is known as a homopolymer, while a polymer containing two or more types of repeat units is known as a copolymer.
polymer: The work carried out by Braconnot, Parkes, Ludersdorf, Hayward and many others on the modification of natural polymers determined many significant advances in the field.
polymer: Size-exclusion chromatography (also called gel permeation chromatography), sometimes coupled with static light scattering, can used to determine the number-average molecular weight, weight-average molecular weight, and dispersity.
polymer: Money: polymer banknotes and payment cards.
polymer: In a bad solvent or poor solvent, intramolecular forces dominate and the chain contracts.
polymer: When a polymer is applied as a coating, the chemical properties will influence the adhesion of the coating and how it interacts with external materials, such as superhydrophobic polymer coatings leading to water resistance.
polymer: These interactions tend to fix the individual chains more strongly in position and resist deformations and matrix breakup, both at higher stresses and higher temperatures.
polymer: For many polymers, crystallinity may also be associated with decreased transparency.
polymer: These stronger forces typically result in higher tensile strength and higher crystalline melting points.
polymer: Individual molecules can lead to entanglements between the lamellae and can also be involved in the formation of two (or more) lamellae (chains than called tie molecules).
polymer: The glass transition shares features of second-order phase transitions (such as discontinuity in the heat capacity, as shown in the figure), but it is generally not considered a thermodynamic transition between equilibrium states.
polymer: A simple example is polyethylene ('polythene' in British English), whose repeat unit or monomer is ethylene.
polymer: In simple polymers (such as polyethylene), the chains are present in the crystal in zigzag conformation.
polymer: The movement of individual macromolecules occurs by a process called reptation in which each chain molecule is constrained by entanglements with neighboring chains to move within a virtual tube.
polymer: These are the elements of polymer structure that require the breaking of a covalent bond in order to change.
polymer: Like the zigzag conformation, such helices allow a dense chain packing.
polymer: Polystyrene is composed only of styrene-based repeat units, and is classified as a homopolymer.
polymer: In some cases, the term crystalline finds identical usage to that used in conventional crystallography.
polymer: Polymers: chemistry and physics of modern materials.
polymer: The microstructure of a polymer (sometimes called configuration) relates to the physical arrangement of monomer residues along the backbone of the chain.
polymer: Polymer nomenclature is generally based upon the type of monomer residues comprising the polymer.
polymer: Particularly strong intermolecular interactions occur when the residues of the repeating units allow the formation of hydrogen bonds, as in the case of p-aramid.
polymer: Historically, products arising from the linkage of repeating units by covalent chemical bonds have been the primary focus of polymer science.
polymer: This further testifies to its impact on modern science and technology.
polymer: The simplest theoretical models for polymers in the molten, amorphous state are ideal chains.
polymer: Chlorine-induced cracking of acetal resin plumbing joints and polybutylene pipes has caused many serious floods in domestic properties, especially in the US in the 1990s.
polymer: Nylon 66 is susceptible to acid hydrolysis, and in one accident, a fractured fuel line led to a spillage of diesel into the road.
polymer: His work was debated at length, but eventually it was accepted by the scientific community.
polymer: Polymers with non-polar units such as polyethylene interact only through weak Van der Waals forces.
polymer: Copolymers are classified either as statistical copolymers, alternating copolymers, block copolymers, graft copolymers or gradient copolymers.
polymer: Polymers with three blocks, each of a different chemical species (e.g., A, B, and C) are termed triblock terpolymers.
polymer: Several zigzag conformations form dense chain packs, called crystallites or lamellae.
polymer: Synthetic polymers may consist of both crystalline and amorphous regions; the degree of crystallinity may be expressed in terms of a weight fraction or volume fraction of crystalline material.
polymer: Types of branched polymers include star polymers, comb polymers, polymer brushes, dendronized polymers, ladder polymers, and dendrimers.
polymer: In the theta solvent, or the state of the polymer solution where the value of the second virial coefficient becomes 0, the intermolecular polymer-solvent repulsion balances exactly the intramolecular monomer-monomer attraction.
polymer: 138 common polymer abbreviations are also standardized in the standard ISO 1043–1.
polymer: Like tensile strength, this is highly relevant in polymer applications involving the physical properties of polymers, such as rubber bands.
polymer: Statistical copolymers have monomer residues arranged according to a statistical rule.
polymer: An important microstructural feature of a polymer is its architecture and shape, which relates to the way branch points lead to a deviation from a simple linear chain.
polymer: Synthetic polymerization reactions may be carried out with or without a catalyst.
polymer: Electronic and photonic technologies: organic field effect transistors (OFET), light emitting diodes (OLED) and solar cells, television components, compact discs (CD), photoresists, holography.
polymer: Step-growth polymerization can be divided into polycondensation, in which low-molar-mass by-product is formed in every reaction step, and polyaddition.
polymer: The sorting of polymer waste for recycling purposes may be facilitated by the use of the resin identification codes developed by the Society of the Plastics Industry to identify the type of plastic.
polymer: The essential difference between the two is that in chain polymerization, monomers are added to the chain one at a time only, such as in polystyrene, whereas in step-growth polymerization chains of monomers may combine with one another directly, such as in polyester.
polymer: Hooking and entanglement of chain molecules lead to a "mechanical bond" between the chains.
polymer: Many commercially important polymers are synthesized by chemical modification of naturally occurring polymers.
polymer: The theory of reptation can explain polymer molecule dynamics and viscoelasticity.
polymer: A pipe has no plasticizers in it, because it needs to remain strong and heat-resistant.
polymer: Block copolymers in which a hard segment of the polymer has a tendency to crystallize and a soft segment has an amorphous structure are one type of thermoplastic elastomers: the hard segments ensure wide-meshed, physical crosslinking.
polymer: These are very important in many applications of polymers for films and membranes.
polymer: Newer methods, such as plasma polymerization do not fit neatly into either category.
polymer: The trivial name is assigned based on historical precedent or popular usage rather than a standardized naming convention.
polymer: For example, a rubber band with a higher tensile strength will hold a greater weight before snapping.
polymer: An emerging important area now focuses on supramolecular polymers formed by non-covalent links.
polymer: The branches are added on to a preformed main chain macromolecule.
polymer: A terpolymer is a copolymer which contains three types of repeat units.
polymer: There is in fact a hierarchy of structures, in which each stage provides the foundations for the next one.
polymer: They are formed by more or less regular folding of one or more molecular chains.
polymer: The glass-transition temperature (Tg) is a crucial physical parameter for polymer manufacturing, processing, and use.
polymer: Dynamic mechanical analysis or DMA measures this complex modulus by oscillating the load and measuring the resulting strain as a function of time.
polymer: Periodic copolymers have more than two species of monomer units in a regular sequence.
polymer: Medical applications: blood bag, syringes, rubber gloves, surgical suture, contact lenses, prosthesis, controlled drug delivery and release, matrices for cell growth.
polymer: Most commonly, the continuously linked backbone of a polymer used for the preparation of plastics consists mainly of carbon atoms.
polymer: In both standardized conventions, the polymers' names are intended to reflect the monomer(s) from which they are synthesized (source based nomenclature) rather than the precise nature of the repeating subunit.
polymer: The glass-transition temperature can also be determined by dynamic mechanical analysis.
polymer: Polymers containing an unsaturated backbone degrade via ozone cracking.
polymer: Examples of the differences between the various naming conventions are given in the table below:
polymer: ISBN 978-0-412-03121-2.
polymer: Separation technologies: synthetic membranes, fuel cell membranes, filtration, ion-exchange resins.
polymer: Polymerization is the process of combining many small molecules known as monomers into a covalently bonded chain or network.
polymer: Block copolymers have long sequences of different monomer units.
polymer: These are the properties that dictate how the polymer actually behaves on a macroscopic scale.
polymer: The intermolecular forces in polymers can be affected by dipoles in the monomer units.
polymer: A variety of other natural polymers exist, such as cellulose, which is the main constituent of wood and paper.
polymer: A uPVC, or unplasticized polyvinylchloride, is used for things such as pipes.
polymer: A polymer's architecture affects many of its physical properties including solution viscosity, melt viscosity, solubility in various solvents, glass-transition temperature and the size of individual polymer coils in solution.
polymer: In isotactic polypropylene, the molecules form a helix.
polymer: If diesel fuel leaks onto the road, accidents to following cars can be caused by the slippery nature of the deposit, which is like black ice.
polymer: Polymers with microcrystalline regions are generally tougher (can be bent more without breaking) and more impact-resistant than totally amorphous polymers.
polymer: In other words, miscible materials usually form a solution not because their interaction with each other is more favorable than their self-interaction, but because of an increase in entropy and hence free energy associated with increasing the amount of volume available to each component.
polymer: Wide-angle X-ray scattering (also called wide-angle X-ray diffraction) is used to determine the crystalline structure of polymers (or lack thereof).
polymer: As a result, they typically have lower melting temperatures than other polymers.
polymer: ISBN 978-1-85957-064-7.
polymer: Amorphous structures exist between the lamellae.
polymer: The crystallinity of polymers is characterized by their degree of crystallinity, ranging from zero for a completely non-crystalline polymer to one for a theoretical completely crystalline polymer.
polymer: Construction and structural applications: garden furniture, PVC windows, flooring, sealing, pipes.
polymer: This change in properties is often the result of bond breaking in the polymer backbone (chain scission) which may occur at the chain ends or at random positions in the chain.
polymer: Alternatively, it may be expressed in terms of pervaded volume, which is the volume spanned by the polymer chain and scales with the cube of the radius of gyration.
polymer: The modulus is strongly dependent on temperature.
polymer: This tends to increase the free energy of mixing for polymer solutions and thereby making solvation less favorable, and thereby making the availability of concentrated solutions of polymers far rarer than those of small molecules.
polymer: Next, the microstructure essentially describes the arrangement of these monomers within the polymer at the scale of a single chain.
polymer: Degradation can also be useful in biomedical settings.
polymer: A polymer containing ionizable subunits (e.g., pendant carboxylic groups) is known as a polyelectrolyte or ionomer, when the fraction of ionizable units is large or small respectively.
polymer: Polymer degradation is a change in the properties—tensile strength, color, shape, or molecular weight—of a polymer or polymer-based product under the influence of one or more environmental factors, such as heat, light, and the presence of certain chemicals, oxygen, and enzymes.
polymer: A variety of techniques may be employed for the synthesis of a polymeric material with a range of architectures, for example living polymerization.
polymer: Different side groups on the polymer can lend the polymer to ionic bonding or hydrogen bonding between its own chains.
polymer: not atactic) have a semi-crystalline structure in the solid state.
polymer: Wright, David C.
polymer: These techniques are also used to characterize the three-dimensional structure of microphase-separated block polymers, polymeric micelles, and other materials.
polymer: Plasticized PVC is used in clothing for a flexible quality.
polymer: Plasticizers are also put in some types of cling film to make the polymer more flexible.
polymer: Thermoplastic elastomers, on the other hand, are reversibly "physically crosslinked" and can be molten.
polymer: It can be used to determine the viscosity, modulus, and other rheological properties.
polymer: The synthesis of proteins involves multiple enzyme-mediated processes to transcribe genetic information from the DNA to RNA and subsequently translate that information to synthesize the specified protein from amino acids.
polymer: In the case of unbranched polyethylene, this chain is a long-chain n-alkane.
polymer: Car parts: tires, bumpers, windshields, windscreen wipers, fuel tanks, car seats.
polymer: Increasing chain length furthermore tends to decrease chain mobility, increase strength and toughness, and increase the glass-transition temperature (Tg).
polymer: The number-average molecular weight (Mn) and weight-average molecular weight (Mw) are most commonly reported.
polymer: Thermogravimetry is a useful technique to evaluate the thermal stability of the polymer.
polymer: The susceptibility of a polymer to degradation depends on its structure.
polymer: The bulk properties of a polymer are those most often of end-use interest.
polymer: Clothing, sportswear and accessories: polyester and PVC clothing, spandex, sport shoes, wetsuits, footballs and billiard balls, skis and snowboards, rackets, parachutes, sails, tents and shelters.
polymer: Ethylene-vinyl acetate contains more than one variety of repeat unit and is a copolymer.
polymer: Under the theta condition (also called the Flory condition), the polymer behaves like an ideal random coil.
polymer: For a given application, the properties of a polymer can be tuned or enhanced by combination with other materials, as in composites.
polymer: Oxygen is also commonly present in polymer backbones, such as those of polyethylene glycol, polysaccharides (in glycosidic bonds), and DNA (in phosphodiester bonds).
polymer: Polyethylene terephthalate, even though produced from two different monomers (ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid), is usually regarded as a homopolymer because only one type of repeat unit is formed.
polymer: Intermolecular and intramolecular attractive forces only occur at sites where molecule segments are close enough to each other.
polymer: As Lord Todd summarised in 1980, "I am inclined to think that the development of polymerization is perhaps the biggest thing that chemistry has done, where it has had the biggest effect on everyday life".
polymer: After the 1930s polymers entered a golden age during which new types were discovered and quickly given commercial applications, replacing naturally-sourced materials.
polymer: Hall, Christopher (1989).
polymer: For example, the structure of a crystalline protein or polynucleotide, such as a sample prepared for x-ray crystallography, may be defined in terms of a conventional unit cell composed of one or more polymer molecules with cell dimensions of hundreds of angstroms or more.
polymer: Epoxies and chains containing aromatic functionalities are especially susceptible to UV degradation while polyesters are susceptible to degradation by hydrolysis.
polymer: A branched polymer molecule is composed of a main chain with one or more substituent side chains or branches.
polymer: A polymer () is a substance or material that consists of very large molecules, or macromolecules, that are constituted by many repeating subunits derived from one or more species of monomers.
polymer: In a good solvent, the polymer appears swollen and occupies a large volume.
polymer: In medical use degradation of polymers can lead to changes of physical and chemical characteristics of implantable devices.
polymer: Which mechanism dominates will depend on the type of polymer and temperature; in general, polymers with no or a single small substituent in the repeat unit will decompose via random-chain scission.
polymer: Tacticity describes the relative stereochemistry of chiral centers in neighboring structural units within a macromolecule.
polymer: This has led to many applications in the field of organic electronics.
polymer: More than 330 million tons of these polymers are made every year (2015).
polymer: Graft or grafted copolymers contain side chains or branches whose repeat units have a different composition or configuration than the main chain.
polymer: The chemical manipulation of polymers dates back to the 19th century, although at the time the nature of these species was not understood.
polymer: Whereas crystallization and melting are first-order phase transitions, the glass transition is not.
polymer: Household items: buckets, kitchenware, toys (e.g., construction sets and Rubik's Cube).
polymer: Paints, glues and lubricants: varnish, adhesives, dispersants, anti-graffiti coatings, antifouling coatings, non-stick surfaces, lubricants.
polymer: Furthermore, the asphalt concrete road surface will suffer damage as a result of the diesel fuel dissolving the asphaltenes from the composite material, this resulting in the degradation of the asphalt surface and structural integrity of the road.
polymer: Furthermore, the phase behavior of polymer solutions and mixtures is more complex than that of small molecule mixtures.
polymer: Highly branched polymers are amorphous and the molecules in the solid interact randomly.
polymer: Polymers with two or three blocks of two distinct chemical species (e.g., A and B) are called diblock copolymers and triblock copolymers, respectively.
polymer: Many commonly used polymers, such as those found in consumer products, are referred to by a common or trivial name.
polymer: The mobility of the chain can further change if the molecules of plasticizer give rise to hydrogen bonding formation.
polymer: The monomers are terephthalic acid (HOOC—C6H4—COOH) and ethylene glycol (HO—CH2—CH2—OH) but the repeating unit is —OC—C6H4—COO—CH2—CH2—O—, which corresponds to the combination of the two monomers with the loss of two water molecules.
polymer: The distinct piece of each monomer that is incorporated into the polymer is known as a repeat unit or monomer residue.
polymer: Some biological polymers are composed of a variety of different but structurally related monomer residues; for example, polynucleotides such as DNA are composed of four types of nucleotide subunits.
polymer: While branched and unbranched polymers are usually thermoplastics, many elastomers have a wide-meshed cross-linking between the "main chains".
polymer: Prominent examples include the reaction of nitric acid and cellulose to form nitrocellulose and the formation of vulcanized rubber by heating natural rubber in the presence of sulfur.
polymer: Many physical and chemical properties describe how a polymer behaves as a continuous macroscopic material.
polymer: In general, tensile strength increases with polymer chain length and crosslinking of polymer chains.
polymer: These polymers have a high surface quality and are also highly transparent so that the laser properties are dominated by the laser dye used to dope the polymer matrix.
polymer: A synthetic polymer may be loosely described as crystalline if it contains regions of three-dimensional ordering on atomic (rather than macromolecular) length scales, usually arising from intramolecular folding or stacking of adjacent chains.
polymer: Polymers, both natural and synthetic, are created via polymerization of many small molecules, known as monomers.
polymer: Personal hygiene and healthcare: diapers using superabsorbent polymers, toothbrushes, cosmetics, shampoo, condoms.
polymer: Scattering techniques, such as static light scattering and small-angle neutron scattering, are used to determine the dimensions (radius of gyration) of macromolecules in solution or in the melt.
polymer: During the polymerization process, some chemical groups may be lost from each monomer.
polymer: Crystallization occurs above the glass-transition temperature (Tg) and below the melting temperature (Tm).
polymer: In dilute solutions, the properties of the polymer are characterized by the interaction between the solvent and the polymer.
polymer: Packaging and containers: films, bottles, food packaging, barrels.
polymer: The irregular structures of the molecules prevent a narrower arrangement.
polymer: Polymers are studied in the fields of polymer science (which includes polymer chemistry and polymer physics), biophysics and materials science and engineering.
polymer: For example, the polymer synthesized from the simple alkene ethene is called polyethene, retaining the -ene suffix even though the double bond is removed during the polymerization process:
polymer: The macroscopic physical properties of a polymer are related to the interactions between the polymer chains.
polymer: ISBN 978-0-12-601680-2.
polymer: Because of this work, Staudinger was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1953.
polymer: Polymers with a degree of crystallinity approaching zero or one will tend to be transparent, while polymers with intermediate degrees of crystallinity will tend to be opaque due to light scattering by crystalline or glassy regions.
polymer: Disordered polymers: In the solid state, atactic polymers, polymers with a high degree of branching and random copolymers form amorphous (i.e.
polymer: The latex sap of "caoutchouc" trees (natural rubber) reached Europe in the 16th century from South America long after the Olmec, Maya and Aztec had started using it as a material to make balls, waterproof textiles and containers.
polymer: The physical properties of polymer strongly depend on the length (or equivalently, the molecular weight) of the polymer chain.
polymer: Carbon based polymers are more susceptible to thermal degradation than inorganic polymers such as polydimethylsiloxane and are therefore not ideal for most high-temperature applications.
polymer: The degradation of polyethylene occurs by random scission—a random breakage of the bonds that hold the atoms of the polymer together.
polymer: When heated above 450 °C, polyethylene degrades to form a mixture of hydrocarbons.
polymer: One of the oldest known failure modes is ozone cracking caused by chain scission when ozone gas attacks susceptible elastomers, such as natural rubber and nitrile rubber.
polymer: Few synthetic polymers are entirely crystalline.
polymer: For example, the chain-growth copolymer of vinyl chloride and vinyl acetate is random.
polymer: The microstructure determines the possibility for the polymer to form phases with different arrangements, for example through crystallization, the glass transition or microphase separation.
polymer: Monomers within a copolymer may be organized along the backbone in a variety of ways.
polymer: They are classified as bulk properties, or intensive properties according to thermodynamics.
polymer: →
However, IUPAC structure based nomenclature is based on naming of the preferred constitutional repeating unit.
polymer: Although such changes are frequently undesirable, in some cases, such as biodegradation and recycling, they may be intended to prevent environmental pollution.
polymer: Semi-crystalline polymers can undergo crystallization and melting transitions, whereas amorphous polymers do not.
polymer: Attack of the acetal joint occurred because of faulty molding, leading to cracking along the threads of the fitting where there is stress concentration.
polymer: The lamellae are much thinner than the polymers are long (often about 10 nm).
polymer: There are other biopolymers such as rubber, suberin, melanin, and lignin.
polymer: Polymer oxidation has caused accidents involving medical devices.
polymer: glassy structures).
polymer: For example, a copolymer of polylactic acid and polyglycolic acid is employed in hydrolysable stitches that slowly degrade after they are applied to a wound.
polymer: Cracks in fuel lines can penetrate the bore of the tube and cause fuel leakage.
polymer: Traces of chlorine in the water supply attacked polymers present in the plumbing, a problem which occurs faster if any of the parts have been poorly extruded or injection molded.
polymer: Compared to amorphous structures, semi-crystalline structures lead to a higher stiffness, density, melting temperature and higher resistance of a polymer.
polymer: There are three main classes of biopolymers: polysaccharides, polypeptides, and polynucleotides.
polymer: In polymers, crystallization and melting do not suggest solid-liquid phase transitions, as in the case of water or other molecular fluids.
polymer: In general, polymeric mixtures are far less miscible than mixtures of small molecule materials.
polymer: It is defined, for small strains, as the ratio of rate of change of stress to strain.
polymer: Various polymer structures can be produced depending on the monomers and reaction conditions: A polymer may consist of linear macromolecules containing each only one unbranched chain.
polymer: In living cells, they may be synthesized by enzyme-mediated processes, such as the formation of DNA catalyzed by DNA polymerase.
polymer: In this scenario, intermolecular forces between the solvent and monomer subunits dominate over intramolecular interactions.
polymer: When a polymer is dispersed or dissolved in a liquid, such as in commercial products like paints and glues, the chemical properties and molecular interactions influence how the solution flows and can even lead to self-assembly of the polymer into complex structures.
polymer: Several lamellae form a superstructure, a spherulite, often with a diameter in the range of 0.05 to 1 mm.
polymer: Polymer characterization spans many techniques for determining the chemical composition, molecular weight distribution, and physical properties.
polymer: They possess double bonds in their repeat units which are cleaved during ozonolysis.
polymer: Alternating copolymers possess two regularly alternating monomer residues: (AB)n.
polymer: Their application allows to save energy (lighter cars and planes, thermally insulated buildings), protect food and drinking water (packaging), save land and lower use of fertilizers (synthetic fibres), preserve other materials (coatings), protect and save lives (hygiene, medical applications).
polymer: Polymers are of two types: naturally occurring and synthetic or man made.
polymer: These types of lasers, that also belong to the class of organic lasers, are known to yield very narrow linewidths which is useful for spectroscopy and analytical applications.
polymer: Alternating, periodic and block copolymers are simple examples of sequence-controlled polymers.
polymer: The use of wool (keratin), cotton and linen fibres (cellulose) for garments, paper reed (cellulose) for paper are just a few examples of how ancient societies exploited polymer-containing raw materials to obtain artefacts.
polymer: Due to their broad spectrum of properties, both synthetic and natural polymers play essential and ubiquitous roles in everyday life.
polymer: Since synthetic polymerization techniques typically yield a statistical distribution of chain lengths, the molecular weight is expressed in terms of weighted averages.
polymer: In the schematic figure below, Ⓐ and Ⓑ symbolize the two repeat units.
polymer: For the polymers mentioned here the (dn/dT) ~ −1.4 × 10−4 in units of K−1 in the 297 ≤ T ≤ 337 K range.
polymer: In melt and solution, polymers tend to form a constantly changing "statistical cluster", see freely-jointed-chain model.
polymer: Failure of safety-critical polymer components can cause serious accidents, such as fire in the case of cracked and degraded polymer fuel lines.
polymer: Rheology is used to characterize the flow and deformation behavior.
polymer: This is a result of the increase in chain interactions such as van der Waals attractions and entanglements that come with increased chain length.
polymer: Laboratory synthesis of biopolymers, especially of proteins, is an area of intensive research.
polymer: The ratio of these two values (Mw / Mn) is the dispersity (Đ), which is commonly used to express the width of the molecular weight distribution.
polymer: A statistical copolymer in which the probability of finding a particular type of monomer residue at a particular point in the chain is independent of the types of surrounding monomer residue may be referred to as a truly random copolymer.
polymer: Below Tg, molecular motions are frozen and polymers are brittle and glassy.
polymer: Modern society would look very different without them.
polymer: The energetics of mixing, on the other hand, is comparable on a per volume basis for polymeric and small molecule mixtures.
polymer: The behaviour of polymers was initially rationalised according to the theory proposed by Thomas Graham which considered them as colloidal aggregates of small molecules held together by unknown forces.
polymer: This effect results from the fact that the driving force for mixing is usually entropy, not interaction energy.
polymer: A good example of the action of plasticizers is related to polyvinylchlorides or PVCs.
polymer: As with other molecules, a polymer's size may also be expressed in terms of molecular weight.
polymer: Rheology is also often used to determine the molecular architecture (molecular weight, molecular weight distribution, branching) and to understand how the polymer can be processed.
polymer: There exist also two-dimensional polymers (2DP) which are composed of topologically planar repeat units.
polymer: This increase in entropy scales with the number of particles (or moles) being mixed.
polymer: Polymers range from familiar synthetic plastics such as polystyrene to natural biopolymers such as DNA and proteins that are fundamental to biological structure and function.
polymer: The modern concept of polymers as covalently bonded macromolecular structures was proposed in 1920 by Hermann Staudinger, who spent the next decade finding experimental evidence for this hypothesis.
polymer: The term was coined in 1833 by Jöns Jacob Berzelius, though with a definition distinct from the modern IUPAC definition.
polymer: In 1920, Hermann Staudinger published his seminal work "Über Polymerisation", in which he proposed that polymers were in fact long chains of atoms linked by covalent bonds.
polymer: The elements of polymer science and engineering.
polymer: An example is the equimolar copolymer of styrene and maleic anhydride formed by free-radical chain-growth polymerization.
polymer: Their consequently large molecular mass, relative to small molecule compounds, produces unique physical properties including toughness, high elasticity, viscoelasticity, and a tendency to form amorphous and semicrystalline structures rather than crystals.
polymer: These features play a major role in determining the physical and chemical properties of a polymer.
polymer: Cross-links and branches are shown as red dots in the figures.
polymer: Dipole bonding is not as strong as hydrogen bonding, so a polyester's melting point and strength are lower than Kevlar's (Twaron), but polyesters have greater flexibility.
polymer: Glasgow: Blackie.
polymer: 3D printing.
polymer: ISBN 978-0-333-46379-6.
polymer: Instead, crystallization and melting refer to the phase transitions between two solid states (i.e., semi-crystalline and amorphous).
polymer: These strong hydrogen bonds, for example, result in the high tensile strength and melting point of polymers containing urethane or urea linkages.
polymer: A step-growth copolymer such as Nylon 66 can also be considered a strictly alternating copolymer of diamine and diacid residues, but is often described as a homopolymer with the dimeric residue of one amine and one acid as a repeat unit.
polymer: This is very important in applications that rely upon a polymer's physical strength or durability.
polymer: An important optical parameter in the polymer used in laser applications is the change in refractive index with temperature
also known as dn/dT.
polymer: This happens in the polymerization of PET polyester.
polymer: A representative, non-exhaustive list of applications is given below.
polymer: Since polymeric molecules are much larger and hence generally have much higher specific volumes than small molecules, the number of molecules involved in a polymeric mixture is far smaller than the number in a small molecule mixture of equal volume.
polymer: Synthetic methods are generally divided into two categories, step-growth polymerization and chain polymerization.
polymer: Cross-linked polymers: Wide-meshed cross-linked polymers are elastomers and cannot be molten (unlike thermoplastics); heating cross-linked polymers only leads to decomposition.
polymer: London; New York: Macmillan.
polymer: IUPAC has also issued guidelines for abbreviating new polymer names.
polymer: Differential scanning calorimetry is used to characterize the thermal properties of polymers, such as the glass-transition temperature, crystallization temperature, and melting temperature.
polymer: Close-meshed crosslinking, on the other hand, leads to thermosets.
polymer: Viscoelasticity describes a complex time-dependent elastic response, which will exhibit hysteresis in the stress-strain curve when the load is removed.
polymer: In the case of chain-end scission, monomers are released and this process is referred to as unzipping or depolymerization.
polymer: Many other structures do exist; for example, elements such as silicon form familiar materials such as silicones, examples being Silly Putty and waterproof plumbing sealant.
polymer: In the latter case, increasing the polymer chain length 10-fold would increase the viscosity over 1000 times.
polymer: A copolymer containing a controlled arrangement of monomers is called a sequence-controlled polymer.
polymer: Polyisoprene of latex rubber is an example of a natural polymer, and the polystyrene of styrofoam is an example of a synthetic polymer.
polymer: The starting point for the description of the structure of a polymer is the identity of its constituent monomers.
polymer: One important example of the physical consequences of the molecular weight is the scaling of the viscosity (resistance to flow) in the melt.
polymer: Because polymer chains are so long, they have many such interchain interactions per molecule, amplifying the effect of these interactions on the polymer properties in comparison to attractions between conventional molecules.
polymer: Rudin, Alfred (1982).
polymer: (John McKenzie Grant) (1991).
polymer: Insulation: electrical and thermal insulation, spray foams.
polymer: There are three types of tacticity: isotactic (all substituents on the same side), atactic (random placement of substituents), and syndiotactic (alternating placement of substituents).
polymer: The protein may be modified further following translation in order to provide appropriate structure and functioning.
polymer: Environmental Stress Cracking of Plastics.
polymer: Polymers containing amide or carbonyl groups can form hydrogen bonds between adjacent chains; the partially positively charged hydrogen atoms in N-H groups of one chain are strongly attracted to the partially negatively charged oxygen atoms in C=O groups on another.
polymer: The type and arrangement of (functional) residues of the repeat units effects or determines the crystallinity and strength of the secondary valence bonds.
polymer: The spreading of polymer use is connected to their unique properties: low density, low cost, good thermal/electrical insulation properties, high resistance to corrosion, low-energy demanding polymer manufacture and facile processing into final products.
polymer: In biological contexts, essentially all biological macromolecules—i.e., proteins (polyamides), nucleic acids (polynucleotides), and polysaccharides—are purely polymeric, or are composed in large part of polymeric components.
polymer: Ways in which polymers can be modified include oxidation, cross-linking, and end-capping.
polymer: Overall the chemical properties of a polymer are important elements for designing new polymeric material products.
polymer: Since 1953, six Nobel prizes have been awarded in the area of polymer science, excluding those for research on biological macromolecules.
polymer: Polyesters have dipole-dipole bonding between the oxygen atoms in C=O groups and the hydrogen atoms in H-C groups.
polymer: In particular unbranched macromolecules can be in the solid state semi-crystalline, crystalline chain sections highlighted red in the figure below.
polymer: Libretext in Polymer chemistry
How to Analyze Polymers Using X-ray Diffraction
The Macrogalleria
Introduction to Polymers
Glossary of Polymer Abbreviations
polymer: Addition of the plasticizer will also modify dependence of the glass-transition temperature Tg on the cooling rate.
polymer: If cracking occurs in the engine compartment, electric sparks can ignite the gasoline and can cause a serious fire.
polymer: Linear polymers with periodic structure, low branching and stereoregularity (e.
polymer: Both the American Chemical Society (ACS) and IUPAC have proposed standardized naming conventions; the ACS and IUPAC conventions are similar but not identical.
polymer: The glass-transition temperature may be engineered by altering the degree of branching or crosslinking in the polymer or by the addition of plasticizers.
polymer: The transition between the states is known as a coil–globule transition.
polymer: Polymer materials (PDF) (2nd ed.).
polymer: Depending on their chemical structures, polymers may be either semi-crystalline or amorphous.
polymer: The formation of strong intramolecular associations may produce diverse folded states of single linear chains with distinct circuit topology.
polymer: Notwithstanding the lack of theoretical knowledge, the potential of polymers to provide innovative, accessible and cheap materials was immediately grasped.
polymer: Crystallinity and superstructure are always dependent on the conditions of their formation, see also: crystallization of polymers.
polymer: Above Tg, molecular motions are activated and polymers are rubbery and viscous.
polymer: Spectroscopy techniques, including Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, can be used to determine the chemical composition.
