psychology: After this research contradicted the original hypothesis, Hollingworth showed that there is no difference between the physiological and psychological traits of men and women, and that women are not impaired during menstruation.
psychology: All researched psychological traits are influenced by both genes and environment, to varying degrees.
psychology: found that "96% of psychological samples come from countries with only 12% of the world's population" (p.
psychology: Some clinical psychologists focus on the clinical management of patients with brain injury.
psychology: William James, John Dewey, and Harvey Carr advanced the idea of functionalism, an expansive approach to psychology that underlined the Darwinian idea of a behavior's usefulness to the individual.
psychology: Army psychologists perform psychological screening, clinical psychotherapy, suicide prevention, and treatment for post-traumatic stress, as well as provide prevention-related services, for example, smoking cessation.
psychology: Skeptics have suggested that personality, thinking, and emotion cannot be directly measured and are often inferred from subjective self-reports, which may be problematic.
psychology: Newer functional neuroimaging techniques include functional magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography, both of which track blood flow in the brain.
psychology: In 1965, public controversy called attention to the Army's Project Camelot, the "Manhattan Project" of social science, an effort which enlisted psychologists and anthropologists to analyze the plans and policies of foreign countries for strategic purposes.
psychology: In recent years, social psychologists have become interested in implicit measures, mediational models, and the interaction of person and social factors in accounting for behavior.
psychology: As she states in her article, "Variability as related to sex differences in achievement: A Critique", the largest problem women have is the social order that was built due to the assumption women have less interests and abilities than men.
psychology: As early as the 4th century BCE, the Greek physician Hippocrates theorized that mental disorders had physical rather than supernatural causes.
psychology: Researchers such as António Damásio, Oliver Sacks, and Joseph LeDoux; and individuals in the emerging field of neuro-psychoanalysis have defended some of Freud's ideas on scientific grounds.
psychology: Her master's thesis, "The Development of Consciousness in Negro Pre-School Children," argued that black children's self-esteem was adversely affected by racial discrimination.
psychology: Workplace violence: Violence prevention climate is related to being physically assaulted and psychologically mistreated at work.
psychology: English neuroscientist Charles Sherrington and Canadian psychologist Donald O.
psychology: After the Russian Revolution, the Bolsheviks promoted psychology as a way to engineer the "New Man" of socialism.
psychology: Research on nonhuman animals cannot proceed without the ethics committee's permission from the researcher's home institution.
psychology: Organizational behavior (OB) is an allied field that studies human behavior within organizations.
psychology: Humanistic psychology is primarily an orientation toward the whole of psychology rather than a distinct area or school.
psychology: In 2010, Clinical Psychological Review published a special issue devoted to positive psychological interventions, such as gratitude journaling and the physical expression of gratitude.
psychology: Graduate programs issuing doctorates in clinical psychology emerged in the 1950s and underwent a rapid increase through the 1980s.
psychology: These tests, called the doll tests, asked young children to choose between identical dolls that differed only in race, and most children preferred the white dolls and attributed positive traits to them.
psychology: In 1923, Anna Freud, the daughter of Sigmund Freud, built on her father's work using different defense mechanisms (denial, repression, and suppression) to psychoanalyze children.
psychology: A classic and popular tool for relating mental and neural activity is the electroencephalogram (EEG).
psychology: A psychology consultant working in business today might expect to provide executives with information and ideas about their industry, their target markets, and the organization of their company.
psychology: The latter part of the word psychology derives from -λογία -logia, which means "study" or "research".
psychology: Divergent Hindu doctrines and Buddhism have challenged this hierarchy of selves, but have all emphasized the importance of reaching higher awareness.
psychology: Chinese psychologists were drawn to the idea that education would enable modernization.
psychology: This so-called black propaganda is designed to seem as if it originates from a source other than the Army.
psychology: Wundt's students Walter Dill Scott, Lightner Witmer, and James McKeen Cattell worked on developing tests of mental ability.
psychology: The APA's Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct consists of five General Principles, which are meant to guide psychologists to higher ethical practice where a particular standard does not apply.
psychology: The American Psychological Association is the oldest and largest.
psychology: The earliest known reference to the word psychology in English was by Steven Blankaart in 1694 in The Physical Dictionary.
psychology: In the field's beginnings, industrialists brought the nascent field of psychology to bear on the study of scientific management techniques for improving workplace efficiency.
psychology: Psychologists will compare the achievement of children attending phonics and whole language classes and, perhaps, statistically adjust for any initial differences in reading level.
psychology: Practices such as "facilitated communication for infantile autism"; memory-recovery techniques including body work; and other therapies, such as rebirthing and reparenting, may be dubious or even dangerous, despite their popularity.
psychology: Another subfield, organizational psychology, examines the effects of work environments and management styles on worker motivation, job satisfaction, and productivity.
psychology: Animal experiments aid in investigating many aspects of human psychology, including perception, emotion, learning, memory, and thought.
psychology: Divisions still exist within the field, with some psychologists more oriented towards the unique experiences of individual humans, which cannot be understood only as data points within a larger population.
psychology: The number of women pursuing education and training in psychological science has reached a record high.
psychology: Folk psychology is the understanding of the mental states and behaviors of people held by ordinary people, as contrasted with psychology professionals' understanding.
psychology: By virtue of his procedures for measuring reaction time and sensation, he is considered an inventor of modern mental testing (also known as psychometrics).
psychology: He pioneered the experimental study of memory and developed quantitative models of learning and forgetting.
psychology: Interventions that reduce work-related stress or provide employees with tools to manage it better can help in areas where stress is a key factor.
psychology: This organization became the International Council of Women Psychologists after World War II and the International Council of Psychologists in 1959.
psychology: Cognitivist research is informed by functionalism and experimental psychology.
psychology: Comparative psychologist Harry Harlow drew moral condemnation for isolation experiments on rhesus macaque monkeys at the University of Wisconsin–Madison in the 1970s.
psychology: Binet and Simon introduced the concept of mental age and referred to the lowest scorers on their test as idiots.
psychology: The Army also engaged in large-scale psychological research of troop morale and mental health.
psychology: Some experimental data suggest that the brain begins to consider taking actions before the mind becomes aware of them.
psychology: Existential psychology emphasizes the need to understand a client's total orientation towards the world.
psychology: John Dewey, who lectured to Chinese audiences between 1919 and 1921, had a significant influence on psychology in China.
psychology: A tenet of behavioral research is that a large part of both human and other animal behavior is learned.
psychology: In situations where psychologists would use deception (e.g., in certain research), they must consider the necessity, benefits, and harms and mitigate any harms where possible.
psychology: Systematic efforts, including efforts by the Reproducibility Project of the Center for Open Science, to assess the extent of the problem found that as many as two-thirds of highly publicized findings in psychology failed to be replicated.
psychology: Social cognition fuses elements of social and cognitive psychology for the purpose of understanding how people process, remember, or distort social information.
psychology: Research psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
psychology: By 1370, the Chinese system required a stratified series of tests, involving essay writing and knowledge of diverse topics.
psychology: With the steady rise of Darwinian and Freudian thinking, instinct also came to be seen as a primary source of motivation.
psychology: Today, U.S.
psychology: Typically, the latter group of psychologists works in academic settings (e.g., universities, medical schools, or hospitals).
psychology: In 1973, it became enshrined in the name of the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, Division 14 of the American Psychological Association.
psychology: Wundt, in turn, came to Leipzig University, where he established the psychological laboratory that brought experimental psychology to the world.
psychology: Ivan Pavlov—known best for inducing dogs to salivate in the presence of a stimulus previously linked with food—became a leading figure in the Soviet Union and inspired followers to use his methods on humans.
psychology: An influential early study examined workers at Western Electric's Hawthorne plant in Cicero, Illinois from 1924 to 1932.
psychology: In 1971, the Network of Indian Psychologists was established by Carolyn Attneave.
psychology: The dictionary refers to "Anatomy, which treats the Body, and Psychology, which treats of the Soul."
Ψ (psi), the first letter of the Greek word psyche from which the term psychology is derived, is commonly associated with the field of psychology.
psychology: Physiognomy remained current through the Enlightenment and was later supplemented by phrenology: the idea that mental traits are related to bumps on the head.
psychology: Quantitative psychological research lends itself to statistical hypothesis testing.
psychology: Animal research is influential in psychology, though it remains a subject of debate among academics.
psychology: psychology, with translations of works by American authors like William James, the establishment of university psychology departments and journals, and the formation of groups, including the Chinese Association of Psychological Testing (1930) and the Chinese Psychological Society (1937).
psychology: Psychological testing has ancient origins, dating back to 2200 BCE in the examinations for the Chinese civil service.
psychology: Those principles are:
A.
psychology: Later, positive psychology brought humanistic themes into scientific study.
psychology: She continued her research on the impact of children after family separation, children with socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds, and all stages of child development from infancy to adolescence.
psychology: The lab was located at Johns Hopkins University.
psychology: In addition, large-scale collaborations among researchers working in multiple labs in different countries have taken place.
psychology: Another modern psychotherapist was Morton Prince, an early advocate for establishing psychology as a clinical and academic discipline.
psychology: The study of group dynamics involves research on the nature of leadership, organizational communication, and related phenomena.
psychology: Many psychologists are involved in some therapeutic role, practicing psychotherapy in clinical, counseling, or school settings.
psychology: These field studies are also where she developed her attachment theory and the order of attachment styles, which was a landmark for developmental psychology.
psychology: In the U.S., the National Institutes of Health established the Institutional Review Board in 1966 and, in 1974, adopted the National Research Act (HR 7724).
psychology: psychologists Alfred Binet and Théodore Simon developed and elaborated a new test of intelligence in 1905–1911.
psychology: The focus on the replication crisis has led to other renewed efforts in the discipline to retest important findings.
psychology: Since modern computers process information quickly, simulations can be run in a short time, allowing for high statistical power.
psychology: The review, which was scathing, did much to reduce the status of behaviorism within psychology.
psychology: The rise of computer science, cybernetics, and artificial intelligence underlined the value of comparing information processing in humans and machines.
psychology: By contrast, in longitudinal studies psychologists collect data on the same sample at two or more points in time.
psychology: The APA code was further revised in 2010 to prevent the use of the code to justify violating human rights, which was in response to the participation of APA members in interrogations under the administration of United States President George W.
psychology: Supreme Court affirmed the constitutionality of this practice in the 1927 case Buck v.
psychology: Social psychologists study such topics as the influence of others on an individual's behavior (e.g.
psychology: Abstract motivations are also malleable, as evidenced by such phenomena as goal contagion: the adoption of goals, sometimes unconsciously, based on inferences about the goals of others.
psychology: Mary Ainsworth's work centered around attachment theory.
psychology: Board of Education (1954).
psychology: Mental health: Exposure to occupational stress is associated with mental health disorder.
psychology: The IUPsyS was founded in 1951 under the auspices of the United Nations Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (UNESCO).
psychology: Chinese psychologists were encouraged to focus on education and language learning.
psychology: Mental testing also became popular in the U.S., where it was applied to schoolchildren.
psychology: He observed that "the last few months of the war saw a social psychologist become chiefly responsible for determining the week-by-week propaganda policy for the United States Government." Cartwright also wrote that psychologists had significant roles in managing the domestic economy.
psychology: They demonstrated that when a biologically potent stimulus (e.g., food that elicits salivation) is paired with a previously neutral stimulus (e.g., a bell) over several learning trials, the neutral stimulus can, by itself, come to elicit the response the biologically potent stimulus elicits.
psychology: In 1962, Martha Bernal became the first Latina woman to get a Ph.D.
psychology: An example of this confounding can be shown in the transmission of depression from a depressed mother to her offspring.
psychology: Existential psychologists emphasized the humanistic themes of death, free will, and meaning, suggesting that myths and narratives can shape meaning; meaning can be deepened by the acceptance of free will, which is requisite to living an authentic life, albeit often with death anxiety.
psychology: The measurement and operationalization of important constructs are essential parts of these research designs.
psychology: Another method is symbolic modeling, which represents many mental objects using variables and rules.
psychology: Similarly, Fanelli (2010) found that 91.5% of psychiatry/psychology studies confirmed the effects they were looking for, and concluded that the odds of this happening (a positive result) was around five times higher than in fields such as space science or geosciences.
psychology: As part of an interdisciplinary field, psychologists are involved in research on perception, cognition, attention, emotion, intelligence, subjective experiences, motivation, brain functioning, and personality.
psychology: Radical behaviorists avoided discussing the inner workings of the mind, especially the unconscious mind, which they considered impossible to assess scientifically.
psychology: The Sixth Congress, held in Geneva in 1909, included presentations in Russian, Chinese, and Japanese, as well as Esperanto.
psychology: Psychopharmacology is the study of drug-induced mental effects.
psychology: Karl Lashley, a close collaborator with Watson, examined biological manifestations of learning in the brain.
psychology: The latter half of the 20th century further diversified the field of psychology, with women of color reaching new milestones.
psychology: Hollingworth worked to prove that differences were not due to male genetic superiority but to culture.
psychology: Setting a precedent that has never been overturned, the U.S.
psychology: The APA includes 54 divisions, which, since 1960, have steadily proliferated to include more specialties.
psychology: These range from public relations campaigns and outreach to governmental laws and policies.
psychology: In 1901, Cattell's student Clark Wissler published discouraging results, suggesting that mental testing of Columbia and Barnard students failed to predict academic performance.
psychology: Many notable findings in the field have not been replicated.
psychology: In the early 20th century, Wolfgang Kohler, Max Wertheimer, and Kurt Koffka co-founded the school of Gestalt psychology of Fritz Perls.
psychology: In contrast, human environments and genetic backgrounds vary so widely and depend on so many factors that it is difficult to control important variables in human subjects.
psychology: Research in comparative psychology sometimes appears to shed light on human behavior, but some attempts to connect the two have been quite controversial, for example, the Sociobiology of E.O.
psychology: These practices were criticized by Black intellectuals such a Horace Mann Bond and Allison Davis.
psychology: Piñero at the University of Buenos Aires.
psychology: On the other hand, a heriditarian theory would hold that biological parents' genes affect depression risk in an offspring.
psychology: Tolman advanced a hybrid "cognitive behavioral" model, most notably with his 1948 publication discussing the cognitive maps used by rats to guess at the location of food at the end of a maze.
psychology: As social scientists, psychologists aim to understand the behavior of individuals and groups.
psychology: Other subfields of psychology have also been implicated in the replication crisis, including clinical psychology, developmental psychology, and a field closely related to psychology, educational research.
psychology: After World War II, the Nuremberg Code was established because of Nazi abuses of experimental subjects.
psychology: In both the public and private sectors, stakeholders often want to know the extent to which the programs they are funding, implementing, voting for, receiving, or objecting to are producing the intended effects.
psychology: citizens make up only 5% of the world's population.
psychology: Some of the specific health areas include:
psychology: They developed a concept of "recognition" (pinyin: jen-shih) which referred to the interface between individual perceptions and the socially accepted worldview; failure to correspond with party doctrine was "incorrect recognition".
psychology: Interventions that improve climates can help address accidents and violence.
psychology: The European Federation of Professional Psychology Associations, founded in 1981, represents 30 national associations with a total of 100,000 individual members.
psychology: This subspecialty is known as clinical neuropsychology.
psychology: Repeated over and over again, these tests helped to establish the negative effects of racial discrimination and segregation on black children's self-image and development.
psychology: Although this type of psychological research is much less abundant than quantitative research, some psychologists conduct qualitative research.
psychology: Interventions such as transcranial magnetic stimulation and drugs also provide information about brain–mind interactions.
psychology: Sometimes hermeneutic and critical aims can give rise to quantitative research, as in Erich Fromm's application of psychological and sociological theories, in his book Escape from Freedom, to understanding why many ordinary Germans supported Hitler.
psychology: They suggest that this principle can even apply to food, drink, sex, and sleep.
psychology: Psychoanalysis originated in the 1890s, most prominently with the work of Sigmund Freud.
psychology: The CIA's MKULTRA program involved more individualized efforts at mind control, involving techniques such as hypnosis, torture, and covert involuntary administration of LSD.
psychology: Witmer focused on the mental testing of children; Scott, on employee selection.
psychology: A theory based on environmental transmission would hold that an offspring, by virtue of their having a problematic rearing environment managed by a depressed mother, is at risk for developing depression.
psychology: The principle became known as the Weber–Fechner law.
psychology: Researchers may examine behavioral differences between species, study animal cognition under controlled conditions, or observe animals in their natural environments.
psychology: Philosopher John Stuart Mill believed that the human mind was open to scientific investigation, even if the science is in some ways inexact.
psychology: In one of the first psychology experiments conducted in the United States, C.S.
psychology: These individuals ensured that psychoanalysis would evolve into diverse schools of thought.
psychology: Her work set the stage for further research to be done in social psychology, especially in gender construction.
psychology: Vohs and Baumeister suggest that contrary to the need-desire-fulfillment cycle of animal instincts, human motivations sometimes obey a "getting begets wanting" rule: the more you get a reward such as self-esteem, love, drugs, or money, the more you want it.
psychology: In contrast to the US, in the UK, psychology was met with antagonism by the scientific and medical establishments, and up until 1939, there were only six psychology chairs in universities in England.
psychology: In some places, governments legally regulate who can provide psychological services or represent themselves as a "psychologist".
psychology: Motivation can be modulated in many ways.
psychology: Existential psychotherapy, which follows from existential psychology, is a therapeutic approach that is based on the idea that a person's inner conflict arises from that individual's confrontation with the givens of existence.
psychology: Other psychologists conduct scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior.
psychology: Psychology education was centralized under the Chinese Academy of Sciences, supervised by the State Council.
psychology: Strict ethical guidelines must be followed when covert observation is being carried out.
psychology: Organizations with strong safety climates have fewer work accidents and injuries.
psychology: Mental health care today involves psychologists and social workers in increasing numbers.
psychology: Its subject matter includes the behavior of humans and nonhumans, both conscious and unconscious phenomena, and mental processes such as thoughts, feelings, and motives.
psychology: The PhD degree is intended to train practitioners who can also conduct scientific research.
psychology: Their research findings played a role in the desegregation case Brown v.
psychology: Harald Schultz-Hencke melded psychology with the Nazi theory of biology and racial origins, criticizing psychoanalysis as a study of the weak and deformed.
psychology: In response to male predominance in the field, female psychologists in the U.S.
psychology: The International Congress continued to be held at different locations in Europe, and with wide international participation.
psychology: In Ancient Egypt the Ebers Papyrus mentioned depression and thought disorders.
psychology: This body of knowledge drew insights from introspection, observation, and techniques for focused thinking and behavior.
psychology: In 1970, psychology was integrated into the required studies of medical students.
psychology: A quasi-experiment is a situation in which different conditions are being studied, but random assignment to the different conditions is not possible.
psychology: Albert Bandura helped along the transition in psychology from behaviorism to cognitive psychology.
psychology: Personnel psychologists apply the methods and principles of psychology to select and evaluate workers.
psychology: All of these measures encouraged researchers to obtain informed consent from human participants in experimental studies.
psychology: Cattell, who also studied with eugenicist Francis Galton, went on to found the Psychological Corporation.
psychology: Clark went on to be an influential figure in psychology, her work continuing to focus on minority youth.
psychology: Psychology is the scientific study of the mind and behavior.
psychology: Popper argued that psychoanalysis was not falsifiable (no claim it made could be proven wrong) and therefore inherently not a scientific discipline, whereas Eysenck advanced the view that experimental data had contradicted psychoanalytic tenets.
psychology: Elements of behaviorism and cognitive psychology were synthesized to form cognitive behavioral therapy, a form of psychotherapy modified from techniques developed by American psychologist Albert Ellis and American psychiatrist Aaron T.
psychology: Jean Grimshaw, for example, argues that mainstream psychological research has advanced a patriarchal agenda through its efforts to control behavior.
psychology: An ancient text known as The Yellow Emperor's Classic of Internal Medicine identifies the brain as the nexus of wisdom and sensation, includes theories of personality based on yin–yang balance, and analyzes mental disorder in terms of physiological and social disequilibria.
psychology: Through the Bureau of Social Hygiene and later funding of Alfred Kinsey, Rockefeller foundations helped establish research on sexuality in the U.S.
psychology: On a broader level, cognitive science is an interdisciplinary enterprise involving cognitive psychologists, cognitive neuroscientists, linguists, and researchers in artificial intelligence, human–computer interaction, and computational neuroscience.
psychology: Watson coined the term behaviorism for this school of thought.
psychology: A true experiment with random assignment of research participants (sometimes called subjects) to rival conditions allows researchers to make strong inferences about causal relationships.
psychology: Psychoanalytic theory is not monolithic.
psychology: In 1913, John B.
psychology: Other well-known psychoanalytic thinkers who diverged from Freud include Alfred Adler, Carl Jung, Erik Erikson, Melanie Klein, D.
psychology: Psychology departments have since proliferated around the world, based primarily on the Euro-American model.
psychology: Upon completion of training, positions were made available to those students in schools, workplaces, cultural institutions, and the military.
psychology: Psychologist and statistician Jacob Cohen wrote in 1994 that psychologists routinely confuse statistical significance with practical importance, enthusiastically reporting great certainty in unimportant facts.
psychology: One goal of such research is similar to that in positional cloning and its success in Huntington's: once a causal gene is discovered, biological research can be conducted to understand how that gene influences the phenotype.
psychology: Developments in item-response theory, structural equation modeling, and bifactor analysis have helped in strengthening test and scale construction.
psychology: Biological psychologists seek an understanding of the emergent properties of brains, linking the discipline to neuroscience.
psychology: The Göring Institute was well-financed throughout the war with a mandate to create a "New German Psychotherapy".
psychology: Some of the most common complaints against clinical psychologists include sexual misconduct and breaches in confidentiality or privacy.
psychology: She recorded both women's and men's performances on tasks (cognitive, perceptual, and motor) for three months.
psychology: She was also a founding member of the Society for Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science.
psychology: Psychology was of interest to Enlightenment thinkers in Europe.
psychology: The results of intelligence tests were used to argue for segregated schools and economic functions, including the preferential training of Black Americans for manual labor.
psychology: Developmental psychologists who study children use several research methods.
psychology: The federally created National Intelligence Test was administered to 7 million children in the 1920s.
psychology: In 2018, Rad, Martingano, and Ginges showed that nearly a decade after Henrich et al.'s paper, over 80% of the samples used in studies published in the journal Psychological Science employed WEIRD samples.
psychology: A depressed mother may both carry genes that contribute to depression in her offspring and also create a rearing environment that increases the risk of depression in her child.
psychology: Humanistic psychology also focuses on personal growth, self-identity, death, aloneness, and freedom.
psychology: He articulated the principle that human perception of a stimulus varies logarithmically according to its intensity.
psychology: Reproducibility has generally been stronger in cognitive psychology (in studies and journals) than social psychology and subfields of differential psychology.
psychology: In 1929, the Congress took place at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, attended by hundreds of members of the APA.
psychology: OHP grew out of health psychology, industrial and organizational psychology, and occupational medicine.
psychology: Most I/O psychologists work outside of academia, for private and public organizations, and as consultants.
psychology: By comparing humans with non-human animals and comparing animal species with one another, researchers seek to identify both shared and unique psychological mechanisms.
psychology: It is closely related to other disciplines that study animal behavior, such as ethology.
psychology: He memorably described "stream of consciousness".
psychology: These predictions are likely to originate from one or more abstract scientific hypotheses about how the phenomenon under study actually works.
psychology: Historians note that Greek philosophers, including Thales, Plato, and Aristotle (especially in his De Anima treatise), addressed the workings of the mind.
psychology: Gustav Fechner began conducting psychophysics research in Leipzig in the 1830s.
psychology: The Russian state emphasized pedology and the study of child development.
psychology: In conducting this field research, Ainsworth developed the Strange Situation Procedure, a laboratory procedure designed to study attachment style by repeatedly separating and reuniting a child with their mother under different circumstances.
psychology: With the advent of more robust research on psychotherapy, there is evidence that most major therapies are equally effective, with the key common element being a strong therapeutic alliance.
psychology: Leta Stetter Hollingworth wanted to prove this hypothesis and Edward L.
psychology: Comparative psychology employs both laboratory and field methods.
psychology: In 1890, William James defined psychology as "the science of mental life, both of its phenomena and their conditions." This definition enjoyed widespread currency for decades.
psychology: Comparative psychology is the scientific study of the behavior and mental processes of non-human animals, especially as these relate to the phylogenetic history, adaptive significance, and development of behavior.
psychology: Some psychologists can also be classified as behavioral or cognitive scientists.
psychology: Thorndike wrote in 1911, "There can be no moral warrant for studying man's nature unless the study will enable us to control his acts." From 1910 to 1913, the American Psychological Association underwent a major change in orientation, away from mentalism and towards "behavioralism".
psychology: In other words, they advanced the view that a child can learn by observing the immediate social environment and not necessarily from having been reinforced for enacting a behavior, although they did not rule out the influence of reinforcement on learning a behavior.
psychology: He created a variation of existential psychotherapy called logotherapy, a type of existentialist analysis that focuses on a will to meaning (in one's life), as opposed to Adler's Nietzschean doctrine of will to power or Freud's will to pleasure.
psychology: Theosophy, a religion established by Russian-American philosopher Helena Blavatsky, drew inspiration from these doctrines during her time in British India.
psychology: In Germany, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (1646–1716) applied his principles of calculus to the mind, arguing that mental activity took place on an indivisible continuum.
psychology: Dimensional models of personality disorders are receiving increasing support, and a version of dimensional assessment, namely the Alternative DSM-5 Model for Personality Disorders, has been included in the DSM-5.
psychology: California Psychological Inventory contains 20 personality scales (e.g., independence, tolerance).
psychology: Stalinist purges took a heavy toll and instilled a climate of fear in the profession, as elsewhere in Soviet society.
psychology: Psychologists such as William James initially used the term motivation to refer to intention, in a sense similar to the concept of will in European philosophy.
psychology: They used a range of questions, diverse in their nature and difficulty.
psychology: Mamie Phipps Clark was another woman in psychology that changed the field with her research.
psychology: Rockefeller charities funded the National Committee on Mental Hygiene, which disseminated the concept of mental illness and lobbied for applying ideas from psychology to child rearing.
psychology: In the U.K., some interest in worker well-being emerged with the efforts of Charles Samuel Myers and his National Institute of Industrial Psychology (NIIP) during the inter-War years.
psychology: Under the direction of Hermann Göring's cousin Matthias Göring, the Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute was renamed the Göring Institute.
psychology: The American Psychological Association has advanced a set of ethical principles and a code of conduct for the profession.
psychology: Trait theorists have often employed statistical data-reduction methods, such as factor analysis.
psychology: Just as Jane Goodall studied chimpanzee social and family life by careful observation of chimpanzee behavior in the field, psychologists conduct naturalistic observation of ongoing human social, professional, and family life.
psychology: Psychoanalysis is a collection of theories and therapeutic techniques intended to analyze the unconscious mind and its impact on everyday life.
psychology: Henrich et al.
psychology: The work performed by clinical psychologists is influenced by various therapeutic approaches, all of which involve a formal relationship between the professional and the client (usually an individual, couple, family, or small group).
psychology: Arthur Bandura ran an example of an observational study.
psychology: University ethics committees evaluate proposed research to ensure that researchers protect the rights and well-being of participants; an investigator's research project cannot be conducted unless approved by such an ethics committee.
psychology: Critics inside and outside the field have argued that mainstream psychology has become increasingly dominated by a "cult of empiricism", which limits the scope of research by restricting investigators to methods derived from the physical sciences.
psychology: A key aspect of behavior therapy is empirical evaluation of the treatment's effectiveness.
psychology: A key practice in behavioral and cognitive-behavioral therapy is exposing patients to things they fear, based on the premise that their responses (fear, panic, anxiety) can be deconditioned.
psychology: Kuo Zing-yang who received a PhD at the University of California, Berkeley, became President of Zhejiang University and popularized behaviorism.
psychology: Some psychologists rely on less rigorously controlled, but more ecologically valid, field experiments as well.
psychology: Creswell (2003) identified five main possibilities for qualitative research, including narrative, phenomenology, ethnography, case study, and grounded theory.
psychology: IUPsyS recognizes 66 national psychology associations, and at least 15 others exist.
psychology: Developmental psychology is the scientific study of how and why the thought processes, emotions, and behaviors of humans change over the course of their lives.
psychology: Applied behavior analysis is the term used for the application of the principles of operant conditioning to change socially significant behavior (it supersedes the term, "behavior modification").
psychology: Yet others are involved in work on human development, aging, sports, health, forensic science, education, and the media.
psychology: The Association for Behavior Analysis International was founded in 1974 and by 2003 had members from 42 countries.
psychology: The field involves studying the mental aspects of complex jobs,such as that of pilot or cosmonaut).
psychology: Functional periodicity, the belief that women are mentally and physically impaired during menstruation, impacted women's rights because employers were less likely to hire them due to the belief they would be incapable of working for 1 week a month.
psychology: Educational psychologists can be found in preschools, schools of all levels, including post-secondary institutions, community organizations and learning centers, Government or private research firms, and independent or private consultants.
psychology: Although pedology and intelligence testing fell out of favor in 1936, psychology maintained its privileged position as an instrument of the Soviet Union.
psychology: She also challenged the belief that intelligence is inherited, and women here are intellectually inferior to men.
psychology: Because of her work, Ainsworth became one of the most cited psychologists of all time.
psychology: The field is closely connected to evolutionary theory and assumes that many aspects of behavior and cognition have developed through natural selection.
psychology: It also involves studying why humans and lower animals continue or terminate a behavior.
psychology: Technological advances also renewed interest in mental states and mental representations.
psychology: Clinical psychologists also try to promote subjective well-being and personal growth.
psychology: OHP is concerned with the health and safety of workers.
psychology: military used the name Psychological Operations (PSYOP) until 2010, when these activities were reclassified as Military Information Support Operations (MISO), part of Information Operations (IO).
psychology: Some, but not all, clinical and counseling psychologists rely on symbolic interpretation.
psychology: Second-wave feminism did not miss psychology.
psychology: In the 1950s and 1960s, influenced by philosophers Søren Kierkegaard and Martin Heidegger, psychoanalytically trained American psychologist Rollo May helped to develop existential psychology.
psychology: Some people considered parapsychology to be part of "psychology".
psychology: In 1916, (after Binet's death), Stanford professor Lewis M.
psychology: Like Piaget, developmental psychologists originally focused primarily on cognitive development from infancy to adolescence.
psychology: Experimental researchers typically use a statistical hypothesis testing model, which involves making predictions before experimenting and then assessing how well the collected data are consistent with those predictions.
psychology: John Bargh, Daniel Wegner, and Ellen Langer describe free will as an illusion.
psychology: Kitsch Child, Phyllis Chesler, and Dorothy Riddle were some of the founding members of the organization in 1969.
psychology: This list often includes, but is not limited to, children, incarcerated individuals, pregnant women, human fetuses and neonates, institutionalized persons, those with physical or mental disabilities, and the educationally or economically disadvantaged.
psychology: Psychologists may also work on a diverse set of campaigns known broadly as psychological warfare.
psychology: The origins of comparative psychology can be traced to the work of Charles Darwin, whose theory of evolution suggested continuity between human and animal minds.
psychology: Non-human primates, cats, dogs, pigeons, rats, and other rodents are often used in psychological experiments.
psychology: Four major theoretical perspectives are psychodynamic, cognitive-behavioral, existential–humanistic, and systems (or family) therapy.
psychology: Humans seem to exhibit a more complex set of motivations, though theoretically these could be explained as resulting from desires for belonging, positive self-image, self-consistency, truth, love, and control.
psychology: The topics of cybernetics, linguistics, and genetics became acceptable again.
psychology: The field has gained a foothold in Latin America and Japan.
psychology: Terman modified the Binet-Simon scale (renamed the Stanford–Binet scale) and introduced the intelligence quotient as a score report.
psychology: The United States Army's Mental Health Advisory Teams implement psychological interventions to help combat troops experiencing mental problems.
psychology: While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatment of mental health problems, it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in several spheres of human activity.
psychology: In 2010, Henrich, Heine, and Norenzayan reported a bias in conducting psychology studies with participants from "WEIRD" ("Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich, and Democratic") societies.
psychology: Modeling also allows psychologists to visualize hypotheses about the functional organization of mental events that cannot be directly observed in humans.
psychology: Developmental researchers have even devised clever methods to study the mental processes of infants.
psychology: It emphasizes subjective meaning, the rejection of determinism, and concern for positive growth rather than pathology.
psychology: Health psychologists can also educate doctors and research patient compliance.
psychology: Because most leading psychologists were educated in the United States, the academy's primary concern was their re-education in Soviet doctrine.
psychology: The Bolsheviks also promoted free love and embraced the doctrine of psychoanalysis as an antidote to sexual repression.
psychology: The Army rolled out its new General Classification Test to assess the ability of millions of soldiers.
psychology: Freud's psychoanalytic theory was largely based on interpretive methods, introspection, and clinical observation.
psychology: Credit for the first psychology clinic in the United States typically goes to Lightner Witmer, who established his practice in Philadelphia in 1896.
psychology: The new field of engineering psychology emerged.
psychology: In Canada and the U.S., practitioners earn bachelor's and doctoral degrees; doctoral students in clinical psychology typically complete a 1-year predoctoral internship and a 1-year postdoctoral internship.
psychology: Although there are similarities between behavior therapy and cognitive-behavior therapy, cognitive-behavior therapy requires the application of cognitive constructs.
psychology: Personality psychology is concerned with enduring patterns of behavior, thought, and emotion.
psychology: Such tasks often resemble specially designed games and activities that are both enjoyable for the child and scientifically useful.
psychology: It includes the study and application of psychology for understanding, preventing, and relieving psychological distress, dysfunction, and/or mental illness.
psychology: In many countries, clinical psychology is a regulated mental health profession.
psychology: Watson's famous Little Albert experiment in 1920 was at first thought to demonstrate that repeated use of upsetting loud noises could instill phobias (aversions to other stimuli) in an infant human, although such a conclusion was likely an exaggeration.
psychology: Some psychologists study motivation, or the subject of why people or lower animals initiate a behavior at a particular time.
psychology: The first meeting of the International Congress of Psychology, sponsored by the International Union of Psychological Science, took place in Paris in August 1889, amid the World's Fair celebrating the centennial of the French Revolution.
psychology: Meta-analysis is the technique research psychologists use to integrate results from many studies of the same variables and arriving at a grand average of the findings.
psychology: Others explore the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie cognitive functions and behaviors.
psychology: Researchers subsequently refined statistical methods for synthesizing the electrode data, and identified unique brain wave patterns such as the delta wave observed during non-REM sleep.
psychology: This method has several advantages.
psychology: The impact of psychology on social change includes the discipline's broad influence on teaching and learning.
psychology: At the end of the Napoleonic era, Prussian authorities discontinued the Old University of Münster.
psychology: Chinese scholarship that focused on the brain advanced during the Qing dynasty with the work of Western-educated Fang Yizhi (1611–1671), Liu Zhi (1660–1730), and Wang Qingren (1768–1831).
psychology: The European Federation of Psychologists' Associations has adopted a model code using the principles of the Canadian Code, while also drawing from the APA code.
psychology: Some credit Charles Darwin with conducting the first systematic study within the rubric of developmental psychology, having published in 1877 a short paper detailing the development of innate forms of communication based on his observations of his infant son.
psychology: In the United States, Edward Lee Thorndike initiated "connectionist" studies by trapping animals in "puzzle boxes" and rewarding them for escaping.
psychology: A replication crisis in psychology has emerged.
psychology: Some psychologists have responded with an increased use of effect size statistics, rather than sole reliance on p-values.
psychology: The Interamerican Psychological Society, founded in 1951, aspires to promote psychology across the Western Hemisphere.
psychology: In Russia, too, researchers placed greater emphasis on the biological basis for psychology, beginning with Ivan Sechenov's 1873 essay, "Who Is to Develop Psychology and How?" Sechenov advanced the idea of brain reflexes and aggressively promoted a deterministic view of human behavior.
psychology: In the 1890s, Russian physiologist Ivan Pavlov famously used dogs to demonstrate classical conditioning.
psychology: In 1954, this research would help decide the landmark Brown v.
psychology: As a discipline, psychology has long sought to fend off accusations that it is a "soft" science.
psychology: In 1989, the APA revised its policies on advertising and referral fees to negotiate the end of an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission.
psychology: Early behavioral researchers studied stimulus–response pairings, now known as classical conditioning.
psychology: In an experiment, the researcher alters one or more variables of influence, called independent variables, and measures resulting changes in the factors of interest, called dependent variables.
psychology: Although the field makes abundant use of randomized and controlled experiments in laboratory settings, such research can only assess a limited range of short-term phenomena.
psychology: The humanistic approach seeks to view the whole person, not just fragmented parts of the personality or isolated cognitions.
psychology: However, neuroimaging has yielded unmistakable results demonstrating correlations between mind and brain.
psychology: This technique uses electrodes with amplifiers on a person's scalp to measure voltage changes across different parts of the brain.
psychology: In Mexico and most other Latin American and European countries, psychologists do not earn bachelor's and doctoral degrees; instead, they complete a three-year professional course after high school.
psychology: She found no differences among infants other than size.
psychology: Karen Horney developed the concept of "womb envy" and neurotic needs.
psychology: Stanley Hall, an American who studied with Wundt, founded a psychology lab that became internationally influential.
psychology: Moreover, their analysis showed that several studies did not fully disclose the origin of their samples; the authors offered a set of recommendations to editors and reviewers to reduce WEIRD bias.
psychology: These two African American psychologists studied segregation's adverse psychological impact on Black children.
psychology: Physical health symptoms: Occupational stress has been linked to physical symptoms such as digestive distress and headache.
psychology: This type of research can involve interviews, questionnaires, and first-hand observation.
psychology: Hebb used experimental methods to link psychological phenomena to the brain's structure and function.
psychology: According to Freud, personality is based on the dynamic interactions of the id, ego, and super-ego.
psychology: Western Electric experimented on factory workers to assess their responses to changes in illumination, breaks, food, and wages.
psychology: Industrial psychology became interested in worker fatigue during World War I, when British government ministers were concerned about the impact of fatigue on workers in munitions factories but not in other types of factories.
psychology: The idea behind structuralism was to analyze and classify different aspects of the mind, primarily through the method of introspection.
psychology: In China, the foundations of psychological thought emerged from the philosophical works of ancient thinkers like Laozi and Confucius, as well as the teachings of Buddhism.
psychology: The IAAP is considered the oldest international psychology association.
psychology: Lev Vygotsky became prominent in the field of child development.
psychology: It is, however, far from clear that positive psychology is effective in making people happier.
psychology: At least 30 other international organizations represent psychologists in different regions.
psychology: The approach of Gestalt psychology is based upon the idea that individuals experience things as unified wholes.
psychology: military and intelligence agencies, including the newly created Office of Strategic Services and forerunner to the CIA, became leading funders of psychology.
psychology: This psychotherapy aimed to align suitable Germans with the Reich's overall goals.
psychology: Positive psychology is the study of factors that contribute to human happiness and well-being, with a greater focus on people who are currently healthy.
psychology: Applications include conducting surveys to identify issues and designing interventions to make work healthier.
psychology: A professional practitioner or researcher involved in the discipline is called a psychologist.
psychology: Board of Education decision, leading to the end of legal segregation across the nation.
psychology: Research in this area explores the behavior of many species, from insects to primates.
psychology: She believed a child should be recognized as an individual with their own rights, and that each session should be tailored to the child's specific needs.
psychology: Psychologists have sometimes been involved in assisting the interrogation and torture of suspects, staining the records of the psychologists involved.
psychology: Modern research encompasses a wide range of topics, including memory, communication, social behavior, decision-making, and consciousness.
psychology: By many accounts, psychology ultimately aims to benefit society.
psychology: Feminist critiques have argued that claims to scientific objectivity obscure the values and agenda of (historically) mostly male researchers.
psychology: In addition to studying children, developmental psychologists also study aging and processes throughout the life span, including old age.
psychology: A major source of evidence comes from studying individuals with brain injuries, neurodegenerative diseases, or developmental abnormalities.
psychology: in psychology.
psychology: This includes managing conflicts of interest and committing a portion of a psychologist's professional time to low-cost or pro bono work.
psychology: Genes and environment are completely confounded in these simple transmission models.
psychology: The automaticity model of John Bargh and others involves the ideas of automaticity and unconscious processing in our understanding of social behavior, although there has been dispute with regard to replication.
psychology: In Germany after World War I, psychology held institutional power through the military, which was subsequently expanded along with the rest of the military during Nazi Germany.
psychology: Harriet McAdoo was appointed to the White House Conference on Families in 1979.
psychology: It has changed multiple times over the decades since its adoption, and contains both aspirational principles and binding ethical standards.
psychology: Beneficence and Nonmaleficence - meaning the psychologists must work to benefit those they work with and "do no harm." This includes awareness of indirect benefits and harms their work might have on others due to personal, social, political, or other factors.
psychology: Qualitative researchers sometimes aim to enrich our understanding of symbols, subjective experiences, or social structures.
psychology: By contrast, trait theorists have developed taxonomies of personality constructs in describing personality in terms of key traits.
psychology: Sometimes participants are aware they are being observed; other times, they are not.
psychology: Other research psychologists rely on statistical methods to glean knowledge from population data.
psychology: The result shows that children who had seen the adult acting aggressively towards a toy, in turn, were aggressive towards their own toy when put in a situation that frustrated them.
psychology: Psychologists in the field of public health use a wide variety of interventions to influence human behavior.
psychology: formed the National Council of Women Psychologists in 1941.
psychology: By the end of the 20th century, psychology departments in American universities mostly had marginalized Freudian theory, dismissing it as a "desiccated and dead" historical artifact.
psychology: Chinese psychologists elaborated on Lenin's model of "reflective" consciousness, envisioning an "active consciousness" (pinyin: tzu-chueh neng-tung-li) capable of transcending material conditions through hard work and ideological struggle.
psychology: Some psychological research has suffered from bias, problematic reproducibility, and misuse of statistics.
psychology: Members of the public have a five-year window to file ethics complaints about APA members with the APA ethics committee; members of the APA have a three-year window.
psychology: Luria, and Aron Zalkind, were denounced; Ivan Pavlov (posthumously) and Stalin himself were celebrated as heroes of Soviet psychology.
psychology: This perspective suggests that psychological adaptations evolved to solve recurrent problems in human ancestral environments.
psychology: OHP is a branch of psychology that is interdisciplinary.
psychology: It emerged in the 1950s as a movement within academic psychology, in reaction to both behaviorism and psychoanalysis.
psychology: The American Association for Humanistic Psychology, formed in 1963, declared:
psychology: In addition to studying cognition, developmental psychologists have also come to focus on affective, behavioral, moral, social, and neural development.
psychology: Theories of personality vary across different psychological schools of thought.
psychology: In 1977, National Institute of Mental Health director Bertram Brown described this shift as a source of "intense competition and role confusion".
psychology: Arnett (2008), Altmaier, and Hall (2008) and Morgan-Consoli et al.
psychology: Consequently, university psychology departments trained large numbers of students.
psychology: Comparative psychology (in some languages called zoopsychology) studies behavior and mental processes across different species.
psychology: Other women in the field also continued advocating for women in psychology, creating the Association for Women in Psychology to criticize how the field treated women.
psychology: They also provide insight that avoids the classic problems of subjective self-reporting.
psychology: Psychology is an academic discipline of broad scope, crossing the boundaries between the natural and social sciences.
psychology: Neuropsychology is classified under the broader category of neurosciences or biological psychology - fields that examines how the brain, nervous system, endocrine system, and genetic factors influence psychological processes.
psychology: Following World War II, Jewish psychologists past and present, including Lev Vygotsky, A.R.
psychology: The field was at first called economic psychology or business psychology; later, industrial psychology, employment psychology, or psychotechnology.
psychology: Evolutionary psychology approaches thought and behavior from a modern evolutionary perspective.
psychology: Educational psychology is often included in teacher education programs in North America, Australia, and New Zealand.
psychology: Some researchers were even accused of publishing fraudulent results.
psychology: Hunger, thirst, fear, sexual desire, and thermoregulation constitute fundamental motivations in animals.
psychology: Thorndike's theory, that women have lesser psychological and physical traits than men and were simply mediocre, was incorrect.
psychology: Winnicott, Karen Horney, Erich Fromm, John Bowlby, Freud's daughter Anna Freud, and Harry Stack Sullivan.
psychology: in psychology, founded the National Indian Education Association.
psychology: Early comparative psychologists investigated learning, instinct, sensory processes, and problem-solving abilities in animals.
psychology: Respect for People's Rights and Dignity - the preservation of people's rights when working with psychologists, including confidentially, privacy, and autonomy.
psychology: Their dullness seems to be racial."
Following the Army Alpha and Army Beta tests, developed by psychologist Robert Yerkes in 1917, which were then used in World War 1 by industrial and organizational psychologists for large-scale employee testing and the selection of military personnel.
psychology: It became very well known, largely because it tackled subjects such as sexuality, repression, and the unconscious.
psychology: Neuropsychological research investigates how specific brain regions contribute to functions such as memory, language, attention, perception, executive control, and emotional regulation.
psychology: Skinner's behaviorism did not die, in part because it generated successful practical applications.
psychology: population, even though U.S.
psychology: Developments in psychometrics include work on test and scale reliability and validity.
psychology: Existential psychology is opposed to reductionism, behaviorism, and other methods that objectify the individual.
psychology: Psychologists can use certain research techniques on animals that could not be used on humans.
psychology: Clark Hull formalized the latter idea with his drive reduction model.
psychology: In this way, psychologists have an opportunity to test causal hypotheses regarding conditions that commonly arise in people's lives that put them at risk for depression.
psychology: For example, they make observations of children in natural settings such as preschools and engage them in experimental tasks.
psychology: Having consulted philosophers Hegel and Herbart, however, in 1825 the Prussian state established psychology as a mandatory discipline in its rapidly expanding and highly influential educational system.
psychology: According to the model, much information processing occurs below the threshold of consciousness, and only certain stimuli, limited in number and nature, make their way through the filter.
psychology: Bandura and other social learning theorists advanced the idea of vicarious learning.
psychology: Austrian existential psychiatrist and Holocaust survivor Viktor Frankl drew evidence of meaning's therapeutic power from reflections upon his own internment.
psychology: Psychoanalyst Melanie Klein impacted developmental psychology with her research of play therapy.
psychology: It stands for respect for the worth of persons, respect for differences of approach, open-mindedness as to acceptable methods, and interest in exploration of new aspects of human behavior.
psychology: In its Latin form psychiologia, it was first employed by the Croatian humanist and Latinist Marko Marulić in his book Psichiologia de ratione animae humanae (Psychology, on the Nature of the Human Soul) in the decade 1510–1520.
psychology: These findings have led to calls for reform from within and from outside the scientific community.
psychology: Because some areas of psychology rely on research methods such as self-reports in surveys and questionnaires, critics asserted that psychology is not an objective science.
psychology: The name industrial and organizational psychology emerged in the 1960s.
psychology: Starting in the 1950s, the experimental techniques developed by Wundt, James, Ebbinghaus, and others re-emerged as experimental psychology became increasingly cognitivist and, eventually, became part of the wider, interdisciplinary field of cognitive science.
psychology: It viewed the universe as comprising physical and mental realms and their interplay.
psychology: A new method of "instrumental" or "operant" conditioning added the concepts of reinforcement and punishment to the model of behavior change.
psychology: Martin Seligman and his colleagues discovered that they could condition in dogs a state of "learned helplessness", which was not predicted by the behaviorist approach to psychology.
psychology: The statistical methods research psychologists employ include the Pearson product–moment correlation coefficient, the analysis of variance, multiple linear regression, logistic regression, structural equation modeling, and hierarchical linear modeling.
psychology: In cross-sectional observational studies, psychologists collect data at a single point in time.
psychology: Parapsychology, hypnotism, and psychism were major topics at the early International Congresses.
psychology: In England, early psychology involved phrenology and the response to social problems, including alcoholism, violence, and the country's crowded "lunatic" asylums.
psychology: Hall, in turn, trained Yujiro Motora, who brought experimental psychology, with an emphasis on psychophysics, to the Imperial University of Tokyo.
psychology: Psychologists have commonly used paper-and-pencil surveys.
psychology: New ideas about psychology diffused from Japan into China.
psychology: While hypothesis testing is rare, virtually impossible, in qualitative research, qualitative studies can be helpful in theory and hypothesis generation, interpreting seemingly contradictory quantitative findings, and understanding why some interventions fail and others succeed.
psychology: Qualitative research involving first-hand observation can help describe events as they occur, aiming to capture the richness of everyday behavior and to discover and understand phenomena that might have been missed in more cursory examinations.
psychology: Psychologists such as Hans Eysenck and philosophers including Karl Popper sharply criticized psychoanalysis.
psychology: Neuropsychology concens relationships between brain function and behavior.
psychology: Problems that affect longitudinal studies include selective attrition, a type of bias in which a particular type of research participant leaves a study disproportionately.
psychology: The school provided psychological training for military staff.
psychology: In the United States, tens of thousands of men and women were sterilized.
psychology: Fidelity and Responsibility - an awareness of public trust in the profession and adherence to ethical standards and clarification of roles to preserve that trust.
psychology: She also included the concept of women's impairment during menstruation in her research.
psychology: (2018) view the Western bias in research and theory as a serious problem, considering psychologists are increasingly applying psychological principles developed in WEIRD regions in their research, clinical work, and consultation with populations around the world.
psychology: Psychologists' interests extend to interpersonal relationships, psychological resilience, family resilience, and other areas within social psychology.
psychology: A standing committee headed by Robert Yerkes administered mental tests ("Army Alpha" and "Army Beta") to almost 1.8 million soldiers.
psychology: In 1974, American literary critic Wayne C.
psychology: Parapsychology persisted for a time at Imperial University in Japan, with publications such as Clairvoyance and Thoughtography by Tomokichi Fukurai, but it was mostly shunned by 1913.
psychology: Psychologists should consider a multitude of factors, including a need for special safeguards for protected populations (e.g., minors, incarcerated individuals) and awareness of differences based on numerous factors, including culture, race, age, gender, and socioeconomic status.
psychology: Skinner, who emerged as a leading intellectual of the behaviorist movement.
psychology: In 1951, the academy created a Psychology Research Office, which, in 1956, became the Institute of Psychology.
psychology: There has been a growing movement to integrate the various therapeutic approaches, especially with an increased understanding of issues regarding culture, gender, spirituality, and sexual orientation.
psychology: An early example of personality assessment was the Woodworth Personal Data Sheet, constructed during World War I.
psychology: In the U.S., during the mid-twentieth century, industrial psychologist Arthur Kornhauser pioneered the study of occupational mental health, linking industrial working conditions to mental health as well as the spillover of an unsatisfying job into a worker's personal life.
psychology: Some concepts that sociologists have applied to the study of psychiatric disorders, concepts such as the social role, sick role, social class, life events, culture, migration, and total institution, have influenced social psychologists.
psychology: No evidence was found of decreased performance due to a woman's menstrual cycle.
psychology: The work of developmental psychologists such as Lev Vygotsky, Jean Piaget, and Jerome Bruner has been influential in creating teaching methods and educational practices.
psychology: The International Union of Psychological Science (IUPsyS) is the world federation of national psychological societies.
psychology: The study of mental illnesses is called abnormal psychology.
psychology: Computational neuroscience uses mathematical models to simulate the brain.
psychology: These two sources of influence are often confounded in observational research of individuals and families.
psychology: Another important principle is informed consent, the idea that a patient or research subject must understand and freely choose to undergo a procedure.
psychology: The emerging field of disaster psychology (see crisis intervention) involves professionals who respond to large-scale traumatic events.
psychology: A different strain of experimentalism, with a greater connection to physiology, emerged in South America, under the leadership of Horacio G.
psychology: One way to differentiate I/O psychology from OB is that I/O psychologists train in university psychology departments and OB specialists in business schools.
psychology: A central idea of the Upanishads and other Vedic texts that formed the foundations of Hinduism was the distinction between a person's transient mundane self and their eternal, unchanging soul.
psychology: Zickar accumulated evidence to show that "no other industrial psychologist of his era was as devoted to advocating management and labor practices that would improve the lives of working people."
psychology: The American Psychological Association (APA) was founded soon after, in 1892.
psychology: One of the first books with the word neuropsychology in the title was Organization of Behavior - A Neuropsychological Theory published in 1949.
psychology: Exploratory data analysis includes a variety of practices that researchers use to reduce a large number of variables to a small number of overarching factors.
psychology: Each theory carries different assumptions about such features as the role of the unconscious and the importance of childhood experience.
psychology: She stated it is important to focus on the child's environment, support their development, and prevent neurosis.
psychology: Meanwhile, behaviorist researchers used simple dichotomous models (pleasure/pain, reward/punishment) and well-established principles such as the idea that a thirsty creature will take pleasure in drinking.
psychology: As the field of psychology developed in the latter half of the 20th century, women in the field advocated for their voices to be heard and their perspectives valued.
psychology: One aspect of health psychology is the psychoeducation of patients: instructing them in how to follow a medical regimen.
psychology: Behavioral researchers have developed a treatment known as behavior modification to help individuals replace undesirable behaviors with desirable ones.
psychology: Experimental psychologists have devised a variety of ways to measure these elusive phenomenological entities indirectly.
psychology: Diagnosis in clinical psychology usually follows the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM).
psychology: Existential psychologists tend to differ from more "humanistic" psychologists in the former's relatively neutral view of human nature and relatively positive assessment of anxiety.
psychology: The Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI), despite its name, is more a dimensional measure of psychopathology than a personality measure.
psychology: The provision of psychological health services is generally referred to as clinical psychology in the United States.
psychology: Several associations, including the Association of Black Psychologists and the Asian American Psychological Association, have arisen to promote the inclusion of non-European racial groups in the profession.
psychology: Swiss psychoanalyst Ludwig Binswanger and American psychologist George Kelly may also be said to belong to the existential school.
psychology: IAAP and IUPsyS agreed in 1976 each to hold a congress every four years, on a staggered basis.
psychology: Another student of Wundt, the Englishman Edward Titchener, created the psychology program at Cornell University and advanced "structuralist" psychology.
psychology: Observational studies are commonly conducted in psychology.
psychology: Since the 1980s, the Big Five (openness to experience, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism) emerged as an important trait theory of personality.
psychology: For this reason, some psychologists prefer to distinguish between implicit and explicit memory.
psychology: Psychoanalysts believed that these forces, especially the sexual instincts, could become entangled and transmuted within the psyche.
psychology: In response to 1904 orders from the Minister of Public Instruction, one example of an observational study was run by Arthur Bandura.
psychology: Research has shown that the phonics approach to reading instruction is more effective than the "whole word" or "whole language" approach.
psychology: Since the 1970s, the popularity of cognitive-behavior therapy among clinical psychologists has increased.
psychology: Some in the clinical psychology community adopted behavioral therapy, a thoroughly non-psychodynamic model that used behaviorist learning theory to change patients' behavior.
psychology: During World War II and the Cold War, the U.S.
psychology: In addition to the contributions made by Leta Stetter Hollingworth and Anna Freud, Mary Whiton Calkins invented the paired associates technique of studying memory and developed self-psychology.
psychology: Some of these draw on a systemic neural network model rather than a localized function model.
psychology: These psychologists draw on the full range of psychological theories to inform their research.
psychology: In Canada, some members of the aforementioned groups usually fall within the broader category of professional psychology.
psychology: Harlow also devised what he called a "rape rack", to which the female isolates were tied in a normal monkey mating posture.
psychology: Cognitive psychologists have used a "filter" model of attention.
psychology: Wundt's assistant, Hugo Münsterberg, taught psychology at Harvard to students such as Narendra Nath Sen Gupta—who, in 1905, founded a psychology department and laboratory at the University of Calcutta.
psychology: Psychology entered the field with its refinements of mental testing, which promised to improve the diagnosis of mental problems.
psychology: Freudian psychoanalysts were expelled and persecuted under the anti-Jewish policies of the Nazi Party, and all psychologists had to distance themselves from Freud and Adler, founders of psychoanalysis who were also Jewish.
psychology: The 1992 incarnation was the first to distinguish between "aspirational" and "enforceable" ethical standards.
psychology: Another early influential book in this field was Alexander Luria's magnum opus, Higher Cortical Functions in Man (1962).
psychology: The Canadian Psychological Association used the APA code until 1986, when it developed its own code drawing from four similar principles: 1) Respect for the Dignity of Persons and Peoples, 2) Responsible Caring, 3) Integrity in Relationships, 4) Responsibility to Society.
psychology: The study of the unconscious mind, a part of the psyche outside the individual's awareness but that is believed to influence conscious thought and behavior, was a hallmark of early psychology.
psychology: Researchers can use common sense to consider how much the nonrandom assignment threatens the study's validity.
psychology: According to drive theory, the forces of instinct combine into a single source of energy that exerts a constant influence.
psychology: Cardiovascular disease: Cardiovascular disease has been related to lack of job control.
psychology: Qualitative research is often designed to answer questions about individuals' thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.
psychology: Since 1966, the Union has published the International Journal of Psychology.
psychology: Because of the unreliability of self-reporting, a major hurdle in this type of research involves demonstrating that a subject's conscious mind has not perceived a target stimulus.
psychology: These great discoveries and contributions were made during struggles of sexism, discrimination, and little recognition for their work.
psychology: Universities have ethics committees dedicated to protecting the rights (e.g., voluntary nature of participation in the research, privacy) and well-being (e.g., minimizing distress) of research participants.
psychology: However, this meaning was contested, notably by John B.
psychology: The PsyD degree is more exclusively designed to train practitioners.
psychology: There is an increasing emphasis on ecological validity, digital biomarkers, and the personalization of clinical neuropsychological diagnosis and rehabilitation.
psychology: In 1920, Édouard Claparède and Pierre Bovet created a new applied psychology organization called the International Congress of Psychotechnics Applied to Vocational Guidance, later called the International Congress of Psychotechnics and then the International Association of Applied Psychology.
psychology: A popular and representative topic in this area is cognitive bias, or irrational thought.
psychology: Psychologists (and economists) have classified and described a sizeable catalog of biases which recur frequently in human thought.
psychology: Philosopher of science Thomas Kuhn's 1962 critique implied that psychology, overall, was in a pre-paradigm state, lacking agreement on the type of overarching theory found in mature hard sciences such as chemistry and physics.
psychology: Computational modeling is a tool used in mathematical psychology and cognitive psychology to simulate behavior.
psychology: In 1890, James wrote an influential book, The Principles of Psychology, which expanded on structuralism.
psychology: Personnel psychology is a subfield of I/O psychology.
psychology: Investigators must work with preexisting groups of people.
psychology: A principle of behavioral research is that the mechanisms involved in learning apply to both humans and non-human animals.
psychology: Some famous past studies are today considered unethical and in violation of established codes (e.g., the Canadian Code of Conduct for Research Involving Humans, and the Belmont Report).
psychology: Research has shown that subconscious priming of certain ideas can covertly influence thoughts and behavior.
psychology: However, this discipline did not yet embrace experimentation.
psychology: Because of this, more training programs and psychologists are now adopting an eclectic therapeutic orientation.
psychology: After a hiatus due to World War I, the Seventh Congress met in Oxford, with substantially greater participation by the war-victorious Anglo-Americans.
psychology: The most important contemporary standards include informed and voluntary consent.
psychology: Integrity - upholding honesty and accuracy in all psychological practices, including avoiding misrepresentations and fraud.
psychology: University of Michigan psychologist Dorwin Cartwright reported that university researchers began large-scale propaganda research in 1939–1941.
psychology: Web-based surveys are increasingly used to conveniently reach a large number of subjects.
psychology: James McKeen Cattell, a student of Wundt and Galton, brought the idea of psychological testing to the United States, and in fact coined the term "mental test".
psychology: The system ended in 1906.
psychology: Prototypical experimental research is conducted in a laboratory with a carefully controlled environment.
psychology: This observational study focused on children exposed to an adult exhibiting aggressive behavior and their reactions to toys, compared with other children not exposed to these stimuli.
psychology: Fechner's achievement was to show that "mental processes could not only be given numerical magnitudes, but also that these could be measured by experimental methods." In Heidelberg, Hermann von Helmholtz conducted parallel research on sensory perception, and trained physiologist Wilhelm Wundt.
psychology: The discipline of cognitive science covers cognitive psychology as well as philosophy of mind, computer science, and neuroscience.
psychology: conformity, persuasion) and the formation of beliefs, attitudes, and stereotypes about other people.
psychology: Other types of modeling include dynamic systems and stochastic modeling.
psychology: The Russian-Soviet physiologist Ivan Pavlov discovered in dogs a learning process that was later termed "classical conditioning" and applied the process to human beings.
psychology: Qualitative psychological research methods include interviews, first-hand observation, and participant observation.
psychology: Among these schools are ego psychology, object relations, and interpersonal, Lacanian, and relational psychoanalysis.
psychology: The researchers came to focus on workers' responses to observation itself, and the term Hawthorne effect is now used to describe the phenomenon in which people's behavior can change when they think they are being observed.
psychology: Wang Qingren emphasized the brain as the center of the nervous system, linked mental disorders to brain diseases, investigated the causes of dreams and insomnia, and advanced a theory of hemispheric lateralization in brain function.
psychology: Twentieth-century Chinese psychology originally modeled itself on U.S.
psychology: These theories and techniques inform treatments for mental disorders.
psychology: Later, most countries (and scientific journals) adopted the Declaration of Helsinki.
psychology: With funding from the Rockefeller Foundation, Mitscherlich established the first clinical psychosomatic medicine division at Heidelberg University.
psychology: Musculoskeletal disorder: These are injuries in bones, nerves, and tendons due to overexertion and repetitive strain.
psychology: Although the Hawthorne research can be found in psychology textbooks, the research and its findings were weak at best.
psychology: They have been linked to job satisfaction and workplace stress.
psychology: Raymond Cattell empirically derived a theory of 16 personality factors at the primary-factor level and up to eight broader second-stratum factors.
psychology: Justice - an understanding that psychology must be for everyone's benefit, and that psychologists take special care to avoid unjust practices as a result of biases or limitations of expertise.
psychology: Some critics view statistical hypothesis testing as misplaced.
psychology: Under the influence of the Carnegie-funded Eugenics Record Office, the Draper-funded Pioneer Fund, and other institutions, the eugenics movement also influenced American psychology.
psychology: Behavioral genetics researchers have employed methodologies that help to disentangle this confound and understand the nature and origins of individual differences in behavior.
psychology: Some work as external consultants hired by organizations to solve specific problems, whereas others are full-time employees of the organization.
psychology: American psychology gained status upon the U.S.'s entry into World War I.
psychology: The ancient civilizations of Egypt, Greece, China, India, and Persia all engaged in the philosophical study of psychology.
psychology: In the United States, estimates suggest that women make up about 78% of undergraduate students and 71% of graduate students in psychology.
psychology: In the 1970s, cognitive-behavior therapy emerged with the work of Albert Ellis and Aaron Beck.
psychology: Modern testing aspires to criteria including standardization of procedure, consistency of results, output of an interpretable score, statistical norms describing population outcomes, and, ideally, effective prediction of behavior and life outcomes outside of testing situations.
psychology: In Europe, mental assessment took a different approach, with theories of physiognomy—judgment of character based on the face—described by Aristotle in 4th century BCE Greece.
psychology: Today, at least 65 international groups deal with specialized aspects of psychology.
psychology: They rely on an information processing model of mental functioning.
psychology: Based on his test findings, and reflecting the racism common to that era, Terman concluded that intellectual disability "represents the level of intelligence which is very, very common among Spanish-Indians and Mexican families of the Southwest and also among negroes.
psychology: Interdisciplinary studies became popular, and scholars such as Georgy Shchedrovitsky developed systems theory approaches to human behavior.
psychology: She believed that once a child reached the latency period, child analysis could be used as a mode of therapy.
psychology: Some of the most important ethical issues are the requirement to practice only within the area of competence, to maintain confidentiality with the patients, and to avoid sexual relations with them.
psychology: Goddard put the Binet-Simon scale to work and introduced classifications of mental level such as imbecile and feebleminded.
psychology: It examines how the structure and functioning of the nervous system influence cognitive processes, emotions, and behavior.
psychology: Cognitive psychology involves the study of mental processes, including perception, attention, language comprehension and production, memory, and problem solving.
psychology: Psychoanalysis, like biology, regarded these forces as demands originating in the nervous system.
psychology: Some called this development the cognitive revolution because it rejected the anti-mentalist dogma of behaviorism as well as the strictures of psychoanalysis.
psychology: Later, in Beyond the Pleasure Principle, Freud introduced the concept of the death drive, a compulsion towards aggression, destruction, and psychic repetition of traumatic events.
psychology: The concept of unconscious processes has remained important in psychology.
psychology: These conditions are approximated best in laboratory settings.
psychology: The German psychologist Hermann Ebbinghaus, a researcher at the University of Berlin, was a 19th-century contributor to the field.
psychology: When experimental psychology came to Britain, Francis Galton was a leading practitioner.
psychology: OHP has also been informed by disciplines outside psychology, including industrial engineering, sociology, and economics.
psychology: She encouraged drawing, moving freely, and expressing themselves in any way they could.
psychology: He suggested that the difference between conscious and unconscious awareness is only a matter of degree.
psychology: His 1901 book The Psychopathology of Everyday Life catalogs hundreds of everyday events that Freud explains in terms of unconscious influence.
psychology: Hans Berger, the first researcher to use EEG on an unopened skull, quickly found that brains exhibit signature "brain waves": electric oscillations which correspond to different states of consciousness.
psychology: James McKeen Cattell, a professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia University and the co-founder of Psychological Review, was the first professor of psychology in the United States.
psychology: Peirce and Joseph Jastrow found in 1884 that research subjects could choose the minutely heavier of two weights even if consciously uncertain of the difference.
psychology: Child psychology and pedagogy for a nationally cohesive education remained a central goal of the discipline.
psychology: Psychological warfare chiefly involves the use of propaganda to influence enemy soldiers and civilians.
psychology: This helped build a strong therapeutic alliance with child patients, which allows psychologists to observe their normal behavior.
psychology: The article gave examples of results that differ significantly between people from WEIRD and tribal cultures, including the Müller-Lyer illusion.
psychology: Mill proposed a "mental chemistry" in which elementary thoughts could combine into ideas of greater complexity.
psychology: Traditionally, the research has involved twin studies and adoption or cross-fostering studies, two designs where genetic and environmental influences can be partially unconfounded.
psychology: Later, developmental psychology expanded to include the study of cognition across the life span.
psychology: In 2008, Arnett pointed out that most articles in American Psychological Association journals focused on the U.S.
psychology: Paul Flechsig and Emil Kraepelin soon created another influential laboratory at Leipzig, a psychology-related lab, that focused more on experimental psychiatry.
psychology: Many have taken on leadership roles, directed influential research labs, and guided the next generation of psychologists.
psychology: Eugenicists used mental testing to justify and organize compulsory sterilization of individuals classified as mentally retarded (now referred to as intellectual disability).
psychology: But students in these fields were eventually ostracized and, more or less, banished from the Congress in 1900–1905.
psychology: Psychologists study the combined effects of these tools to influence entire populations.
psychology: Many psychologists argue that animal experimentation is essential for human advancement, but the government must regulate it to ensure ethicality.
psychology: After the Chinese Communist Party gained control of the country, the Stalinist Soviet Union became the major influence, with Marxism–Leninism the leading social doctrine and Pavlovian conditioning the approved means of behavior change.
psychology: Critics say there has been an increase in the number of mental health training programs that do not instill scientific competence.
psychology: Dewey integrated psychology with societal concerns, most notably by promoting progressive education, inculcating moral values in children, and assimilating immigrants.
psychology: Social psychology is concerned with how behaviors, thoughts, feelings, and the social environment influence human interactions.
psychology: In 387 BCE, Plato suggested that the brain is where mental processes take place, and in 335 BC, Aristotle suggested that it was the heart.
psychology: Some psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and social behavior.
psychology: Findings from comparative psychology contribute to understanding the evolutionary origins of human cognition and behavior and provide insights into the adaptive significance of psychological processes.
psychology: However, members of the school psychology and counseling psychology professions sometimes engage in practices that resemble those of clinical psychologists.
psychology: In the 1910s and 1920s, eugenics became a standard topic in psychology classes.
psychology: Sometimes the purpose of longitudinal research is to study trends across time, such as the stability of traits or age-related changes in behavior.
psychology: Tokyo Imperial University led the way in bringing new psychology to the East.
psychology: Chancellor T'sai Yuan-p'ei introduced him at Peking University as a greater thinker than Confucius.
psychology: In Peirce's three modes of inference, exploratory data analysis corresponds to abduction.
psychology: Immanuel Kant advanced the idea of anthropology as a discipline, with psychology an important subdivision.
psychology: Another group of psychologists is employed in industrial and organizational settings.
psychology: They also consider the unconscious mind.
psychology: The word psychology was first used in the Renaissance.
psychology: The field of metascience has revealed problems in psychological research.
psychology: Its membership has increased from 5,000 in 1945 to 100,000 in the present day.
psychology: Operant conditioning was first described by Miller and Kanorski and popularized in the U.S.
psychology: Noam Chomsky published an influential critique of radical behaviorism, arguing that behaviorist principles could not adequately explain the complex mental process of language acquisition and language use.
psychology: Freud pioneered the methods of free association and dream interpretation.
psychology: These practices, however, are outside the mainstream practices taught in clinical psychology doctoral programs.
psychology: Evolutionary psychologists attempt to find out how human psychological traits are evolved adaptations, the results of natural selection or sexual selection over the course of human evolution.
psychology: It remains challenging to draw hard conclusions about where in the brain specific thoughts originate—or even how usefully such localization corresponds with reality.
psychology: To further prove her point, she conducted another experiment with infants who had not been influenced by social norms, such as the belief that adult men receive more opportunities than women.
psychology: In the 1950s, the Rockefeller Foundation and Ford Foundation collaborated with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to fund research on psychological warfare.
psychology: Fechner's 1860 Elements of Psychophysics challenged Kant's negative view of the idea of conducting quantitative research on the mind.
psychology: Today, mental testing is a routine phenomenon for people of all ages in Western societies.
psychology: The field of psychology also identifies certain categories of people that require additional or special protection due to particular vulnerabilities, unequal power dynamics, or diminished capacity for informed consent.
psychology: Some founders of the humanistic school of thought were American psychologists Abraham Maslow, who formulated a hierarchy of human needs, and Carl Rogers, who created and developed client-centered therapy.
psychology: Wundt focused on breaking down mental processes into the most basic components, motivated in part by an analogy to recent advances in chemistry, and its successful investigation of the elements and structure of materials.
psychology: Surveys are used in psychology for the purpose of measuring attitudes and traits, monitoring changes in mood, and checking the validity of experimental manipulations (checking research participants' perception of the condition they were assigned to).
psychology: Yoga encompasses a range of techniques for pursuing the goal of higher awareness.
psychology: The availability heuristic, for example, is the tendency to overestimate the importance of something that happens to come readily to mind.
psychology: Clinical psychology is at present the largest specialization within psychology.
psychology: One goal of the discipline is to optimize human potential in the workplace.
psychology: Allen and Mehler estimated that 61 percent of result-blind studies have yielded null results, in contrast to an estimated 5 to 20 percent in traditional research.
psychology: The APA defines a psychologist as someone with a doctoral degree in psychology.
psychology: William James was one of three Americans among the 400 attendees.
psychology: Although the number of proposed traits has varied widely, Hans Eysenck's early biologically based model suggests at least three major trait constructs are necessary to describe human personality: extraversion–introversion, neuroticism-stability, and psychoticism-normality.
psychology: Central to the practice of clinical psychology are psychological assessment and psychotherapy, although clinical psychologists may also engage in research, teaching, consultation, forensic testimony, and program development and administration.
psychology: Hull, Edwin Guthrie, and others did much to help behaviorism become a widely used paradigm.
psychology: These technologies provide more localized information about brain activity and create brain representations with widespread appeal.
psychology: Animal models are often used to study neural processes related to human behavior, e.g., in cognitive neuroscience.
psychology: Psychological testing is regularly used in forensic contexts to aid legal judgments and decisions.
psychology: However, surveys are also conducted by phone or via e-mail.
psychology: She and her husband conducted research throughout the 1940s.
psychology: James's ideas interested many American students in the emerging discipline.
psychology: Johannes Heinrich Schultz, a German psychologist recognized for developing the technique of autogenic training, prominently advocated sterilization and euthanasia of men considered genetically undesirable, and devised techniques for facilitating this process.
psychology: By observing patterns of cognitive impairment associated with particular forms of brain damage, neuropsychologists infer the functions of affected neural systems.
psychology: Contemporary neuropsychology is undergoing a rapid transformation thanks to advances in neuroimaging, natural language processing, artificial intelligence and virtual reality.
psychology: Building on the work of fellow psychologist John Bowlby, Ainsworth spent years conducting fieldwork to understand the development of mother-infant relationships.
psychology: Accidents and injuries: A major contribution is the concept of safety climate, which is employees' shared perceptions of the behaviors that are encouraged (e.g., wearing safety gear) and discouraged (not following safety rules) at work.
psychology: The collaborators regularly make their data openly available for different researchers to assess.
psychology: Fanelli argued that this is because researchers in "softer" sciences have fewer constraints on their conscious and unconscious biases.
psychology: Classical psychoanalysis conceives of a struggle between the pleasure principle and the reality principle, roughly corresponding to the id and the ego.
psychology: The popular, although psychometrically inadequate, Myers–Briggs Type Indicator was developed to assess individuals' "personality types" according to the personality theories of Carl Jung.
psychology: Humanistic psychology, which has been influenced by existentialism and phenomenology, stresses free will and self-actualization.
psychology: However, gender disparities persist, disadvantaging women in pay and representation in senior academic positions.
psychology: More recently, gene-focused research has contributed to understanding genetic contributions to the development of psychological traits.
psychology: Researchers have found that eating, for example, depends not only on the organism's fundamental need for homeostasis—an important factor causing the experience of hunger—but also on circadian rhythms, food availability, food palatability, and cost.
psychology: The research aimed to produce an animal model of clinical depression.
psychology: Subsequently, the Rockefeller family, via the Social Science Research Council, began to provide funding for behavioral research.
psychology: School psychologists are trained in educational and behavioral assessment, intervention, prevention, and consultation, and many have extensive training in research.
psychology: Ethical guidelines state that using non-human animals for scientific purposes is only acceptable when the harm (physical or psychological) done to animals is outweighed by the benefits of the research.
psychology: Chinese philosophy also emphasized purifying the mind to increase virtue and power.
psychology: The goal of many cross-sectional studies is to assess the extent to which factors are correlated.
psychology: Alexander Mitscherlich founded a prominent applied psychoanalysis journal called Psyche.
psychology: Typically, these approaches encourage new ways of thinking, feeling, or behaving.
psychology: The influence of unconscious forces on people's choices bears on the philosophical question of free will.
psychology: Educational psychology is the study of how humans learn in educational settings, the effectiveness of educational interventions, the psychology of teaching, and the social psychology of schools as organizations.
psychology: Freud popularized the concept of the unconscious mind, particularly when he referred to an uncensored intrusion of unconscious thought into one's speech (a Freudian slip) or to his efforts to interpret dreams.
psychology: She stated that women do not reach positions of power due to the societal norms and roles they are assigned.
psychology: Pierre Janet advanced the idea of a subconscious mind, which could contain autonomous mental elements outside the subject's direct awareness.
psychology: In 1969, Marigold Linton, the first Native American woman to get a Ph.D.
psychology: In the first part of the twentieth century, most mental health care in the United States was performed by psychiatrists, who are medical doctors.
psychology: Soviet academics experienced a degree of liberalization during the Khrushchev Thaw.
psychology: She was one of the first African-Americans to receive a doctoral degree in psychology from Columbia University, along with her husband, Kenneth Clark.
psychology: Clinical psychologists typically include people who have graduated from doctoral programs in clinical psychology.
psychology: Industrial and organizational (I/O) psychology involves research and practice that apply psychological theories and principles to the work lives of individuals and organizations.
psychology: The main origins of the discipline, however, are found in the work of Jean Piaget.
psychology: In 1926, the College Entrance Examination Board created the Scholastic Aptitude Test to standardize college admissions.
psychology: In the U.S., this function began during World War I, when Robert Yerkes established the School of Military Psychology at Fort Oglethorpe in Georgia.
psychology: Christian Wolff identified psychology as its own science, writing Psychologia Empirica in 1732 and Psychologia Rationalis in 1734.
psychology: Researchers in the field of cognitive psychology are sometimes called cognitivists.
psychology: Some of these divisions, such as the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues and the American Psychology–Law Society, began as autonomous groups.
psychology: It hosted the Interamerican Congress of Psychology and had 1,000 members in 2000.
psychology: Psychology encompasses many subfields and includes different approaches to the study of mental processes and behavior.
psychology: This code has guided the formation of licensing laws in most American states.
psychology: In another approach, one can also describe a subliminal stimulus as meeting an objective but not a subjective threshold.
psychology: Positive psychological interventions have been limited in scope, but their effects are thought to be somewhat better than placebo effects.
psychology: The International Personality Item Pool, which is in the public domain, has become a source of scales that can be used for personality assessment.
psychology: Computer simulations are sometimes used to model phenomena of interest.
psychology: Influenced by Hinduism, Indian philosophy explored distinctions in types of awareness.
psychology: He complained that psychologists had no basis for assuming that psychological processes are universal and for generalizing research findings to the rest of the global population.
psychology: The testing of animals for research has led to medical breakthroughs in human medicine.
psychology: Ideally, controlled experiments introduce only one independent variable at a time to ascertain its unique effects on dependent variables.
psychology: After the war, new institutions were created, although some psychologists, because of their Nazi affiliation, were discredited.
psychology: For their part, some psychiatrists became interested in using psychoanalysis and other forms of psychodynamic psychotherapy to understand and treat the mentally ill.
psychology: Psychotherapy, as conducted by psychiatrists, blurred the distinction between psychiatry and psychology, and this trend continued with the rise of community mental health facilities.
psychology: Active research continues to work toward understanding the genetic and environmental bases of behavior and their interaction.
psychology: Written exams began during the Han dynasty (202 BCE – 220 CE).
psychology: New theories emerged in the first half of the 1900s, marking a turning point in women's recognition in the field of psychology.
psychology: There are, however, pitfalls in generalizing findings from animal studies to humans.
