rainforest: Away from riverbanks, swamps and clearings, where dense undergrowth is found, the forest floor is relatively clear of vegetation because of the low sunlight penetration.
rainforest: When the soil is acidic, there is little difference, and therefore little absorption of nutrients from the soil.
rainforest: Tropical rainforests have been called the "jewels of the Earth" and the "world's largest pharmacy", because over one quarter of natural medicines have been discovered there.
rainforest: The leaves are much larger at this level and insect life is abundant.
rainforest: Rainforests support a very broad array of fauna, including mammals, reptiles, amphibians, birds and invertebrates.
rainforest: Littoral rainforest growing along coastal areas of eastern Australia is now rare due to ribbon development to accommodate the demand for seachange lifestyles.
rainforest: They were the subject of a study by Colin Turnbull, The Forest People, in 1962.
rainforest: There are many tribes in the rainforests of the Malaysian state of Sarawak.
rainforest: Some species of fauna show a trend towards declining populations in rainforests, for example, reptiles that feed on amphibians and reptiles.
rainforest: The fauna is similar to that found in the emergent layer but more diverse.
rainforest: It is home to a number of birds, snakes and lizards, as well as predators such as jaguars, boa constrictors and leopards.
rainforest: Rainforests are forests characterized by a closed and continuous tree canopy, moisture-dependent vegetation, the presence of epiphytes and lianas and the absence of wildfire.
rainforest: The understory or understorey layer lies between the canopy and the forest floor.
rainforest: The concentration of iron and aluminium oxides by the laterization process gives the oxisols a bright red colour and sometimes produces mineral deposits such as bauxite.
rainforest: These can further split up into either microphyll or notophyll depending on their leaf sizes.
rainforest: Scientists have long suspected the richness of the canopy as a habitat, but have only recently developed practical methods of exploring it.
rainforest: The canopy layer contains the majority of the largest trees, typically 30 metres (98 ft) to 45 metres (148 ft) tall.
rainforest: If rainforest trees are cleared, rain can accumulate on the exposed soil surfaces, creating run-off, and beginning a process of soil erosion.
rainforest: Estimates vary from 40% to 75% of all biotic species being indigenous to the rainforests.
rainforest: Many seedlings that will grow to the canopy level are present in the understory.
rainforest: Mammals may include primates, felids and other families.
rainforest: Temperate rainforests are rainforests in temperate regions.
rainforest: In Australia, dry rainforests have structurally complex species composition.
rainforest: Average annual rainfall is no less than 168 cm (66 in) and can exceed 1,000 cm (390 in) although it typically lies between 175 cm (69 in) and 200 cm (79 in).
rainforest: It also contains decaying plant and animal matter, which disappears quickly, because the warm, humid conditions promote rapid decay.
rainforest: The largest areas of rainforest are tropical or temperate rainforests, but other vegetation associations including subtropical rainforest, littoral rainforest, cloud forest, vine thicket and even dry rainforest have been described.
rainforest: About half of Sarawak's 1.5 million people are Dayaks.
rainforest: Rainforests can generally be classified as tropical rainforests or temperate rainforests, but other types have been described.
rainforest: ISBN 0-19-850147-1
rainforest: Most trees have roots near the surface because there are insufficient nutrients below the surface; most of the trees' minerals come from the top layer of decomposing leaves and animals.
rainforest: Reptiles include snakes, turtles, chameleons and other families; while birds include such families as Vangidae and Cuculidae.
rainforest: There may be many millions of species of plants, insects and microorganisms still undiscovered in tropical rainforests.
rainforest: Central African rainforest is home of the Mbuti pygmies, one of the hunter-gatherer peoples living in equatorial rainforests characterised by their short height (below one and a half metres, or 59 inches, on average).
rainforest: Dry rainforests containing a dense vine understory can be split up into different sub-types which include low microphyll vine forest, Araucarian vine forest, Semi-evergreen vine thicket, and deciduous vine thicket.
rainforest: Collectively, they are referred to as Dayaks or Orangulu which means "people of the interior".
rainforest: The science of accessing tropical forest canopy using airships or similar aerial platforms is called dendronautics.
rainforest: Bosawás, the southern Yucatán Peninsula-El Peten-Belize-Calakmul), Australia, and on Pacific Islands (such as Hawaiʻi).
rainforest: Sarawak is part of Borneo, the third largest island in the world.
rainforest: Cambridge University Press ISBN 0-521-42194-2
Whitmore, T.
rainforest: At the same time, rainforests are usually not used sustainably by non-native peoples but are being exploited or removed for agricultural purposes.
rainforest: Forests are being destroyed at a rapid pace.
rainforest: Tropical and temperate rainforests have been subjected to heavy legal and illegal logging for their valuable hardwoods and agricultural clearance (slash-and-burn, clearcutting) throughout the 20th century and the area covered by rainforests around the world is shrinking.
rainforest: Some climate models operating with interactive vegetation predict a large loss of Amazonian rainforest around 2050 due to drought, forest dieback and the subsequent release of more carbon dioxide.
rainforest: The tropical rain forest.
rainforest: Tropical forests cover a large part of the globe, but temperate rainforests only occur in a few regions around the world.
rainforest: Dozens of families of invertebrates are found in rainforests.
rainforest: No rainforest today can be considered to be undisturbed.
rainforest: Second, the type of clay particles present in tropical rainforest soil has a poor ability to trap nutrients and stop them from washing away.
rainforest: Another factor causing the loss of rainforest is expanding urban areas.
rainforest: Finally, these soils are poor due to the high volume of rain in tropical rainforests washing nutrients out of the soil more quickly than in other climates.
rainforest: Most Dayaks, it is believed by anthropologists, came originally from the South-East Asian mainland.
rainforest: Wilson of Harvard University, a quarter or more of all species on Earth could be exterminated within 50 years) due to the removal of habitat with destruction of the rainforests.
rainforest: The seasonality of rainforests affects the reproductive patterns of amphibians, and this in turn can directly affect the species of reptiles that feed on these groups, particularly species with specialized feeding, since these are less likely to use alternative resources.
rainforest: The province of Irian Jaya or West Papua in the island of New Guinea is home to an estimated 44 uncontacted tribal groups.
rainforest: the Amazon rainforest), Central America (e.g.
rainforest: The broader category of tropical moist forests are located in the equatorial zone between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn.
rainforest: Tropical forests have been called the "Earth's lungs", although it is now known that rainforests contribute little net oxygen addition to the atmosphere through photosynthesis.
rainforest: Biologists have estimated that large numbers of species are being driven to extinction (possibly more than 50,000 a year; at that rate, says E.
rainforest: Eagles, butterflies, bats and certain monkeys inhabit this layer.
rainforest: They need to be able to withstand the hot temperatures and strong winds that occur above the canopy in some areas.
rainforest: The densest areas of biodiversity are found in the forest canopy, a more or less continuous cover of foliage formed by adjacent treetops.
rainforest: Human-induced deforestation plays a significant role in causing rainforests to release carbon dioxide, as do other factors, whether human-induced or natural, which result in tree death, such as burning and drought.
rainforest: Amazon deforestation jumped by 69% in 2008 compared to 2007's twelve months, according to official government data.
rainforest: (1998) An introduction to tropical rain forests.
rainforest: A quarter of all insect species are believed to exist in the rainforest canopy.
rainforest: The canopy, by some estimates, is home to 50 percent of all plant species.
rainforest: Many foods originally came from tropical forests, and are still mostly grown on plantations in regions that were formerly primary forest.
rainforest: Almost 90% of West Africa's rainforest has been destroyed.
rainforest: This trend requires close monitoring.
rainforest: On younger substrates, especially of volcanic origin, tropical soils may be quite fertile.
rainforest: Epiphytic plants attach to trunks and branches, and obtain water and minerals from rain and debris that collects on the supporting plants.
rainforest: Many of the world's tropical forests are associated with the location of the monsoon trough, also known as the Intertropical Convergence Zone.
rainforest: Despite the growth of vegetation in a tropical rainforest, soil quality is often quite poor.
rainforest: places in which plants are inaccessible to many herbivores, or in which animals can hide from predators.
rainforest: Rainforests as well as endemic rainforest species are rapidly disappearing due to deforestation, the resulting habitat loss and pollution of the atmosphere.
rainforest: According to Rainforest Rescue, an important reason for the increasing deforestation rate, especially in Indonesia, is the expansion of oil palm plantations to meet growing demand for cheap vegetable fats and biofuels.
rainforest: Their mythologies support this.
rainforest: The roots of plants rely on an acidity difference between the roots and the soil in order to absorb nutrients.
rainforest: Since the arrival of humans, Madagascar has lost two thirds of its original rainforest.
rainforest: Published online: Rainforests.mongabay.com
Richards, P.
rainforest: Mean monthly temperatures exceed 18 °C (64 °F) during all months of the year.
rainforest: This layer can be called a shrub layer, although the shrub layer may also be considered a separate layer.
rainforest: At present rates, tropical rainforests in Indonesia would be logged out in 10 years and Papua New Guinea in 13 to 16 years.
rainforest: Eventually, streams and rivers form and flooding becomes possible.
rainforest: Rainforests also have value as tourism destinations and for the ecosystem services provided.
rainforest: Examples include the emergent, canopy, understory and forest floor layers.
rainforest: Many forms of fungi growing here help decay the animal and plant waste.
rainforest: Tropical rainforests provide timber as well as animal products such as meat and hides.
rainforest: However, a 30 January 2009 New York Times article stated, "By one estimate, for every acre of rainforest cut down each year, more than 50 acres of new forest are growing in the tropics." The new forest includes secondary forest on former farmland and so-called degraded forest.
rainforest: Rapid bacterial decay prevents the accumulation of humus.
rainforest: Dry rainforests typically occur in the rain-shadow of mountainous areas.
rainforest: The forest floor, the bottom-most layer, receives only 2% of the sunlight.
rainforest: (2005) A Place Out of Time: Tropical Rainforests and the Perils They Face.
rainforest: The tribes are in danger because of the deforestation, especially in Brazil.
rainforest: The great diversity in rainforest species is in large part the result of diverse and numerous physical refuges, i.e.
rainforest: Even if humans artificially add nutrients to the soil, the nutrients mostly wash away and are not absorbed by the plants.
rainforest: Tropical rainforests are characterized by a warm and wet climate usually with no substantial dry season: typically found within 10 degrees north and south of the equator.
rainforest: Only plants adapted to low light can grow in this region.
rainforest: These species can have various adaptations such as deciduousness or semi-deciduousness, reduced leaf size, thick leathery leaves (sclerophylly), sharp thorns or leaf margins and prickles.
rainforest: There are several reasons for the poor soil quality.
rainforest: Tropical rainforests exist in Southeast Asia (from Myanmar (Burma)) to the Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Sri Lanka; also in Sub-Saharan Africa from the Cameroon to the Congo (Congo Rainforest), South America (e.g.
rainforest: First is that the soil is highly acidic.
rainforest: Several countries, notably Brazil, have declared their deforestation a national emergency.
rainforest: On a global scale, long-term fluxes are approximately in balance, so that an undisturbed rainforest would have a small net impact on atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, though they may have other climatic effects (on cloud formation, for example, by recycling water vapour).
rainforest: Also, plant-derived medicines are commonly used for fever, fungal infections, burns, gastrointestinal problems, pain, respiratory problems, and wound treatment.
rainforest: In Indonesia, palm oil is already cultivated on nine million hectares and, together with Malaysia, the island nation produces about 85 percent of the world's palm oil.
rainforest: Having numerous refuges available also results in much higher total biomass than would otherwise be possible.
rainforest: Oxford University Press.
rainforest: Only about 5% of the sunlight shining on the rainforest canopy reaches the understory.
rainforest: With this addition, Brazil has now overtaken the island of New Guinea as the country having the largest number of uncontacted tribes.
rainforest: Some of the other tribes in Sarawak are: the Kayan, Kenyah, Kejaman, Kelabit, Punan Bah, Tanjong, Sekapan, and the Lahanan.
rainforest: Exploration of the canopy is still in its infancy, but other methods include the use of balloons and airships to float above the highest branches and the building of cranes and walkways planted on the forest floor.
rainforest: Pygmies who live in Southeast Asia are, amongst others, referred to as "Negrito".
rainforest: A tropical rainforest typically has a number of layers, each with different plants and animals adapted for life in that particular area.
rainforest: Fungi are also very common in rainforest areas as they can feed on the decomposing remains of plants and animals.
