rhythmic_gymnastics: As with execution, penalties are defined by the code and subtracted from the starting score of 10.
rhythmic_gymnastics: As in other judged sports, national bias is sometimes an issue.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The first score, difficulty, is based on the technical value of the elements performed in the routine.
rhythmic_gymnastics: It was painted as a more feminine counterpart to women's artistic gymnastics, where increasingly difficult tumbling led to a perceived masculinization of the sport.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The maximum number of body difficulties was reduced once more to nine, and the dance steps combination was introduced as its own element.
rhythmic_gymnastics: She soon began to perform popular solo dances, and she went on to combine Delsarte's ideas with Ling's and to develop her own gymnastics system.
rhythmic_gymnastics: One developed in Japan and uses a spring floor and a different set of apparatuses, and it was originally competed by both men and women before Western rhythmic gymnastics was brought to Japan.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The apparatus must continue to be used during a body difficulty, and gymnasts must perform at least one of each type and generally should not repeat the exact same element during one exercise.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Groups may elect to perform a single risk.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Israel is a rising nation in rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Germany had early success in the sport, especially from the late 1960s to the early 1990s, with World medalists Ute Lehmann, Carmen Rischer, Christiana Rosenberg, Bianca Dittrich and 1984 Olympic medalist Regina Weber.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The pressure to lose weight may increase for gymnasts with a higher body mass index, even if they are still quite thin by typical standards.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The Belarusian group has also won two silver medals and a bronze medal in the Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: During a competition, each individual gymnast performs four separate routines, one for each apparatus.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Senior groups perform two different routines, one with a single apparatus and one with mixed apparatus (for example, a routine with 5 hoops and a routine with 3 balls / 2 ribbons).
rhythmic_gymnastics: Judges can be sanctioned if they are found to be giving biased scores; for example, after the scoring at the 2015 World Championships was reviewed, one judge was suspended and another was given a warning, both for national bias.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Anna Bessonova is one of the most decorated rhythmic gymnasts of all time and consistently challenged Russian gymnasts for medals during her career; she won two bronze medals at the Olympics (2004 and 2008) and almost 30 medals at the World Championships.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Alina Kabaeva, who had won bronze in Sydney, went on to win gold in the 2004 Athens Olympics and was noted for her flexibility.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The floor is carpeted but has no springs, unlike the one used for floor exercise in artistic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Twin sisters Dina Averina and Arina Averina are two of the best rhythmic gymnasts in Russia's history.
rhythmic_gymnastics: International-level gymnasts are more likely to have disordered eating and low body weight compared to recreational gymnasts.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, former elite-level gymnasts may not be at increased risk of back pain once they have completed their career, though those who do experience pain report experiencing it earlier and tend to have retired earlier than gymnasts without pain.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The ideal is for the gymnast to perform with continuous character using a variety of movements that reflect changes in the music and are connected smoothly together.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Difficulty was divided into artistry (out of 5 points for individual or 6 points for groups), technical (out of 5 points for individuals or 4 points for groups) to simplify judging.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The Bulgarian Rhythmic Gymnastics Federation was established in 1963, and in the early days of the sport, most elite gymnasts spent time training in Bulgaria.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Dina Averina won multiple World Championship titles, dominating the sport since her senior debut.
rhythmic_gymnastics: World Gymnastics (abbreviated FIG, as it was previously named the Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique, or International Gymnastics Federation) formally recognized rhythmic gymnastics as its own discipline in 1962, first as modern gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: A men's program has yet to be formally recognized by the FIG.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Scores had a maximum of thirty points, divided into three categories with a maximum of ten points each: execution, artistic, and difficulty.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They won their first World medal in 1975, then won their second in 2017, a bronze in the all-around.
rhythmic_gymnastics: There is a maximum of two qualifiers per country for each individual event final.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Like Spain, Italy is more engaged in group rhythmic gymnastics; since 2004, the Italian group, nicknamed the 'Le Farfalle' or 'The Butterflies', has won nine all-around World Championship medals and three medals (a silver and two bronze) at the Olympic Games.
rhythmic_gymnastics: A commission was formed to write the rules of the new sport in 1968, and they released the first code in 1970.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The nations which have earned at least one medal in official FIG competitions are:
rhythmic_gymnastics: While rhythmic gymnastics is not currently part of the World Games program, apparatus finals were competed there from 2001 to 2022.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Participants in this style of men's rhythmic gymnastics face significant challenges due to gender stereotypes and cultural ideas about what sports are acceptable for men.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The Olympics has qualifying rounds and all-around finals for both individuals and groups, but there are no event finals.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Lower back pain and spinal issues are a common concern in rhythmic gymnastics due to elements requiring hyper-extension of the spine, a lack of strength needed to properly support back extension, and the number of repetitions gymnasts perform in training.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, two versions of men's rhythmic gymnastics exist outside the governance of the FIG.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Fewer than 30 male rhythmic gymnasts were registered in 2000; in 2017, 50 were registered, and by 2022, the number had increased to 385.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The FIG first requested that rhythmic gymnastics be added to the Olympics in 1972.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2009, this category was closed to men after the FIG released a statement that they had no rules for men's competition, as rhythmic gymnastics was a sport for women only, because the Spanish federation was afraid of being sanctioned.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Gymnasts and coaches sometimes believe that a lighter weight will prevent injuries and make it easier to perform elements, and gymnasts have reported excessive weight control from coaches and demands to meet arbitrary weight targets as well as the use of unhealthy methods to lose weight.
rhythmic_gymnastics: A gymnast can perform in the individual event or in the group event.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Prominent advocates include Rubén Orihuela (Spain) and Peterson Céüs (France); in Spain, Almudena Cid, a four-time Olympian, has also been a supporter of men's rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: After the breakup of the Soviet Union, Russia has been the dominant country in rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Beginning in the 1950s, Evelyn Koop, who graduated from the Ernest Idla Institute in Sweden, promoted the sport in the United States and especially in Canada.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At the 2013 European Championships, gymnasts were surveyed about pain and compared to a matched group of non-athletes.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Some male rhythmic gymnasts, primarily in Europe, train and perform in the same way as their female counterparts using generally the same rules as for women's rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In the all-around, individual gymnasts alternate between competing hoop and ball and then clubs and ribbon, while the groups all perform either their single-apparatus or mixed-apparatus routines during the same competition group.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Even as part of the USSR, a number of Soviet gymnasts were trained in Ukraine or were of Ukrainian origin, including the first World champion Ludmila Savinkova as well as Liubov Sereda.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At the international level, rhythmic gymnastics is a women-only sport.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In the late 90s and early 2000s, Olympic rhythmic gymnasts were on average a year older than Olympic artistic gymnasts, and gymnasts increasingly began to compete through their 20s.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rhythmic gymnasts are at increased risk of scoliosis and other spinal issues.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2005, the Spanish federation allowed men to compete in an open category at the national championships; each autonomous community was allowed to submit two gymnasts in this category, who could be foreign gymnasts or men.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Unlike the body and apparatus difficulties, they are evaluated as part of the artistry score rather than the difficulty score.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The 2017 code was very similar, with difficulty strictly limited and differences among the best gymnasts heavily determined by the execution.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Beginning in 2013, gymnasts could use music with lyrics, but only for one routine.
rhythmic_gymnastics: François Delsarte created a system of movement which was focused on creating expressive acting with natural poses, but it became a popular form of women's gymnastics for developing grace.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 1967, the name "Shintaisou" ("new gymnastics") was adopted as a translation of "Modern Gymnastics," which was practiced in Northern and Central Europe in schools such as Medau's.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In the decades of the 60s and 70s, scoring emphasized the artistic side, with little emphasis on difficulty.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Before the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, Soviet rhythmic gymnasts were engaged in a fierce competition with Bulgaria.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Knots must be undone or the gymnast will be penalized.
rhythmic_gymnastics: It continues to be used for junior groups.
rhythmic_gymnastics: For groups, their total score in the qualifying round determines their all-around placement.
rhythmic_gymnastics: During a risk, the gymnast throws the apparatus high into the air and rotates at least twice underneath it, using either a series of turning leaps or a combination of rolls, turns on the feet, or pre-acrobatic elements such as cartwheels or walkovers, before catching the apparatus.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Group judging is especially difficult, as five gymnasts and five apparatuses are in constant, complex motion over a large area.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rope elements include skipping over the apparatus and wrapping it around the body.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Women's rhythmic gymnastics - originally also called "Modern Gymnastics" - was also imported to Japan under the name "Shintaisou", and women began to perform the international version of the sport instead.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At some competitions, there is a team ranking for federations with at least two individuals and a group entered.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Gymnasts are more susceptible to spinal issues such as scoliosis as they grow older and train for more years.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Athletes are judged on some of the same physical abilities and skills as their female counterparts, such as hand/body/eye co-ordination, but they are also permitted to perform tumbling.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Defunct competitions organized by the FIG include the Four Continents Gymnastics Championships, which was attended by gymnasts outside of Europe and meant to encourage worldwide development of the sport, and the FIG World Cup or World Cup Final.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Gymnasts originally performed to music using a single instrument, which could be either live accompaniment (typically a piano) or taped music.
rhythmic_gymnastics: It may be called by other names in other countries, as the feminine stereotype of the term "rhythmic gymnastics" makes it more difficult to recruit boys into programs.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The first year, a dozen gymnasts competed in the men's competition.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They are generally divided into two types: body and apparatus difficulties.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2009, the code changed significantly due to the perception that artistry had been lost with the focus on difficulty.
rhythmic_gymnastics: She secured over 20 gold medals and four all-around titles at the World Championships, making her the most decorated gymnasts in the history of the sport; at the 2020 Summer Olympics, she won the silver medal.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Scandinavian gymnastics emphasized developing partner and group work and use of apparatuses, and many Scandinavian gymnastics groups toured abroad.
rhythmic_gymnastics: With increased difficulty requirements and new bonuses for originality, the new code was meant to address criticisms of score inflation.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Ball elements include bouncing or rolling the ball.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They become age-eligible to compete in the Olympic Games and other major senior international competitions on January 1 of their 16th year.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The permitted time for group events is between 2 minutes 15 seconds and 2 minutes 30 seconds.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Other notable gymnasts include European champion Daria Atamanov and Junior World champion Alona Tal Franco.
rhythmic_gymnastics: It is made up of two component scores: one for body difficulties and one for apparatus difficulties.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Under the 1989–1992 code, groups were allowed to use music played on multiple instruments.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 1991, The Unified Team was formed and two Soviet/Ukrainian gymnasts competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona; Olexandra Tymoshenko won gold and Oxana Skaldina won bronze.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In the mid-2010s, the Israeli group began to be amongst the leading groups in the World Cup and World Championship competitions and won its first gold medal at the 2016 European Championships.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The 2001–2004 code focused on extreme flexibility at the expense of apparatus handling and artistry.
rhythmic_gymnastics: As with artistic gymnastics, scores originally had a maximum of 10.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Each exercise takes place on a 13 metres (43 ft) x 13 metres (43 ft) floor.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Ling's ideas were extended by Catharine Beecher, who founded the Western Female Institute in Cincinnati, Ohio, United States, in 1837.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2005–2008 code, the number of body difficulties increased again to 18, and they were more finely graded in difficulty rating.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The FIG uses the judging evaluation statistics to provide feedback to judges and guide judging assignments and changes in judging procedures.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rope
The rope is made from hemp or a similar synthetic material; it can be knotted and have anti-slip material at the ends, but it does not have handles.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They were performed to music, and the rules did not specify the apparatuses used, only that each gymnast should have one and that they did not need to be all the same.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The 1993–1996 code emphasized that gymnasts should interpret and move with the music and that it should not be background noise to the routine.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In the 2022–2024 code, the artistry score was once again re-introduced.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rotations: Rotations are turns generally performed either on a flat foot or on relevé, but they can be performed on other parts of the body.
rhythmic_gymnastics: For groups, scores were out of a maximum of 20, with five points each given for the composition, technical value, execution, and general harmony.
rhythmic_gymnastics: After the breakup of the Soviet Union, Russia became the dominant country of rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Other Soviet World all-around champions in individuals included Elena Karpuchina, Galima Shugurova and Irina Deriugina.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Proponents of Japanese-style men's rhythmic gymnastics in other countries sometimes emphasize its perceived masculine qualities in contrast with the Spanish or women's version.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Beginning in 1997, requirements loosened, and gymnasts were allowed to decorate their leotards with sequins and metallic colors.
rhythmic_gymnastics: After each Olympic season, the code is modified.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The restriction on music with lyrics was dropped from the 2022–2024 code of points.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Groups were introduced at the same level in 1967 in Copenhagen, Denmark.
rhythmic_gymnastics: A focus on flexibility training without sufficient strength training can lead to injuries, as can forcing turnout in the feet and over-training.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Canadian Lori Fung was the first rhythmic gymnast to earn an Olympic gold medal.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, the FIG currently only allows the participation of women in rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In France, men have been allowed to compete in rhythmic gymnastics since 1989 and at a national level in 2008.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Skirted leotards were introduced in the 2001–2004 code of points.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They won the bronze medals at the 2004 Summer Olympics and at the 2016 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Top rhythmic gymnasts must have good balance, flexibility, coordination, and strength.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The individual scores of all four routines for each gymnast are then added up to decide the all-around winner.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, the International Olympic Committee initially refused the request.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Overuse injuries are more common than acute injuries.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rhythmic gymnasts have historically tended to peak at a slightly later age than artistic gymnasts.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Tights could be worn starting in 1993.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The first World Championships held in 1963 in Budapest, Hungary was won by Soviet gymnast Ludmila Savinkova, and in 1967 in Copenhagen, Denmark, the first group championship was won by the USSR.
rhythmic_gymnastics: For example, the 2009–2012 code removed elements that led to knee injuries.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In the qualifying round, individual gymnasts compete up to four routines, one for each apparatus; at some competitions, gymnasts may elect to compete only three routines and still qualify for the individual all-around final.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Unitards were introduced as an option.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Long limbs and a slender body are considered ideal for the sport, and judges may be biased against those who do not fit this ideal.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, they may not compete at the highest levels.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The FIG planned to drop rope in junior-level individual competition, but it returned in 2015; it was then announced that rope would be used in junior individual competition in some years through at least the 2023–2024 season, but the 2022–2024 Code of Points dropped it again.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The risk may also depend on the codes of points the gymnast competed under and the emphasis put on back hyper-extension in elements at the time the gymnast competed.
rhythmic_gymnastics: It should rest in the gymnast's hand and not be pressed against the wrist or grasped with the fingers, which incurs a penalty.
rhythmic_gymnastics: It was removed from the senior individual program, and the most recent usage of rope in the senior program was for the mixed apparatus group exercise in 2017.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The group competition was added to the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Other gymnastics authority figures such as judges also encourage gymnasts to lose weight, and parents and friends may do so as well.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Although sports became associated with masculinity, group gymnastics were performed in indoor, private spaces and focused on correctly performing movements before an instructor, which fit societal ideals for women.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At the 2008, 2012, and 2016 Olympic games, rhythmic gymnasts were injured more often than trampoline gymnasts but less often than artistic gymnasts.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The artistry score was given its own evaluation form and guidelines with specific deductions.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The two countries were in rivalry with each other from the third World Championships, where the ballet foundations of the Soviet athletes were contrasted against the risky throws and catches of the Bulgarian competitors, until the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Swedish-style group gymnastics became increasingly popular for women from the mid-19th century through to the early 20th century.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The types of body difficulties are:
rhythmic_gymnastics: It may be made of plastic or wood, and it may be covered with decorative adhesive tape.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Balances: A balance must be held for at least one second.
rhythmic_gymnastics: For example, a body wave on two feet or a single split leap was of medium difficulty, while a body wave on one foot or a series of two leaps in a row was of superior difficulty.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They felt the Ling approach was too rigid and dull and sought freer styles of movements.
rhythmic_gymnastics: For groups: Exchanges, which are an element where all five gymnasts perform a high, long throw of their apparatus to another gymnast and then catch an apparatus thrown by another gymnast.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rhythmic gymnastics debuted as an Olympic sport at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles with the individual all-around competition.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The base elements differ somewhat by apparatus, with some bases (such as a high throw) being valid for all apparatuses and others being particular to one apparatus (such as creating a spiral pattern with the ribbon fabric).
rhythmic_gymnastics: Women's gymnastics began to focus on qualities perceived as feminine, such as grace and expressiveness.
rhythmic_gymnastics: She developed a program where pupils exercised to music, moving from simple calisthenics that could be done in a classroom to more strenuous activities.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, men's rhythmic gymnastics has a history in Japan as its own sport that was originally performed by both men and women.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The permitted time for individual events is between 1 minute 15 seconds and 1 minute 30 seconds.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The same leap may be repeated in a series.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2021, Russia began holding a national men's rhythmic gymnastics championships.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The Bulgarian group won silver at the first Olympics that included a group event, the 1996 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The Spanish group was formed by Marta Baldó, Nuria Cabanillas, Estela Giménez, Lorena Guréndez, Tania Lamarca and Estíbaliz Martínez.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Spain is more engaged in group rhythmic gymnastics, and the Spanish group became the first to win the Olympic gold in group rhythmic gymnastics when it was added in the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, with the help of the Bulgarian coach Emilia Boneva.
rhythmic_gymnastics: A penalty may be applied for musical choices that violate the ethical norms of rhythmic gymnastics, and sounds not typically used in music, such as sirens, are forbidden.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Elements were divided into 'medium' and 'superior' difficulty, and gymnasts were required to include two superior difficulty and six medium difficulty elements, at least three of which had to be performed with the left hand.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Ukraine has won one gold and four bronze medals at the Olympic Games, and Ukrainian gymnasts representing the USSR and Unified Team won an additional gold and two bronze medals.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Individual routines range from one minute and fifteen seconds to one minute and thirty seconds, while group routines may be from two minutes and fifteen seconds to two minutes and thirty seconds.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The Russian group has won five of the eight group exercises held in the Olympics since it was included in the Olympic Games at the 1996 Summer Olympics by winning every title from 2000 to 2016.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At some competitions, there is also an all-around final for individuals.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Irina Deriugina won two all-around World titles, but she was even more influential as a coach.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They may not wear other accessories such as gloves that are not attached to the leotard, except for optionally wearing rhythmic toe shoes.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Individuals may perform up to four dynamic elements with rotation, which are commonly known as risks.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2023, German Darja Varfolomeev won all five individual gold medals at the 2023 World Championships and went on to win the individual all-around at the 2024 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The first Soviet Olympic gold medalist at the 1988 Seoul Olympics, Marina Lobatch, was a Belarusian; she earned all perfect ten scores during her Olympic performances.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Some body difficulties were removed and others merged to encourage variety and discourage injuries.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The score still included the same three categories, but it was now out of 20 points, as artistry and difficulty were averaged and then added to execution.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 1997, the Code of Points was significantly changed, with a focus on differentiating routines for each apparatus and encouraging variety and musicality; bonus points could be awarded for an exercise that was closely matched in character and rhythm to the musical accompaniment.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The sport combines elements of gymnastics, dance and calisthenics; gymnasts must be strong, flexible, agile, dexterous and coordinated.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Group performances are done without using any apparatus and focus on synchronization between the athletes and complicated tumbling; teams even train to breathe at the same times.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Jumps/Leaps: Jumps must be high enough to show a well-defined shape in the air.
rhythmic_gymnastics: More recent individuals include 2024 European champion Stiliana Nikolova, as well as Boryana Kaleyn, the 2023 European champion and the silver medalist at the 2024 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Czechoslovakia dominated the second World Championships, and their routines there, which combined ballet with whole-body movement, influenced the early direction of the sport.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Yulia Barsukova became the first Russian to win the Olympic gold medal.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Apparatus difficulties are elements performed with the apparatus.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In a case brought to the Conseil d'État, it was ruled that the lack of a men's category was not discriminatory.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In the early 1980s, the scoring remained similar, though technical value of the routine was added as part of the marking for the individual score.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At the 2023 World Championships, held in Valencia, Spain, the arena reached 35 °C (95 °F).
rhythmic_gymnastics: The team score is the sum of the eight qualifying round scores (two per apparatus) earned by the individual gymnasts and the qualifying round all-around score earned by the group.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The qualifying round determines who advances to the event final for each apparatus for individuals and for either apparatus combination for groups.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The first competition was held in 1939 in Leningrad on International Women's Day.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At the following 2020 Summer Olympics, the group (comprising Simona Dyankova, Laura Traets, Stefani Kiryakova, Madlen Radukanova, and Erika Zafirova) won its first gold medal.
rhythmic_gymnastics: This can be done simultaneously by the whole group, or one sub-group may perform an exchange before the rest of the gymnasts do so.
rhythmic_gymnastics: It is thought that this may be in part due to rhythmic gymnasts tending to have looser joints and delayed menarche as well as from repeatedly performing elements using the dominant side of the torso.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 1929, Hinrich Medau, who graduated from the Bode School, founded The Medau School in Berlin to train gymnasts in "modern gymnastics".
rhythmic_gymnastics: Hoop elements include rotation of the hoop around the hand or body, rolling the hoop on the body or floor, and the gymnast passing through the hoop.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Chile also allows for men to compete, and a few (nine in 2024) have done so; in some cases, they compete in the same category as women.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Replacement apparatuses are placed on two sides of the floor and can be taken to continue the exercise if the gymnast's apparatus becomes unusable or is lost outside the floor area.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The code of points says that music should be selected with respect to personal qualities of the gymnast, such as age.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Marina Lobatch became the first Soviet to win the Olympic Games in the 1988 Seoul Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: When the apparatuses are thrown, they can cause injury if not caught in time; some gymnasts have been hit in the head or eyes.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The start of the late 1990s saw the rise of stars like Amina Zaripova, Yanina Batyrchina and Alina Kabaeva.
rhythmic_gymnastics: World Gymnastics-recognized competitions, besides the Olympic Games, include the World Championships, continental championships (European Championships, Asian Championships, Pan American Championships, African Championships, and Oceanian Championships), and the World Cup series.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The sport began its success in the 2000s with notable Israeli gymnasts including Irina Risenzon and Neta Rivkin, who placed in top ten in the Olympic Games finals.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The all-around score is the sum of the scores of all routines performed in that round of competition.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Gymnasts may choose to wear long tights under their leotard, wear a leotard with long legs (a unitard) as long as the legs are the same length and color, or wear a short skirt (no longer than the pelvis) over or attached to their leotard or unitard.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2021, it was estimated there are about 1,500 participants in Japan, with small individual programs in other countries such as Canada and Russia, and some former gymnasts have moved to the United States to work for Cirque du Soleil.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The first World Championships for individual rhythmic gymnasts was held in 1963 in Budapest.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Since the late 1990s, Belarus has had continued success in the Olympic Games and has won two silver and two bronze medals in individuals respectively, with Yulia Raskina, Inna Zhukova, Liubov Charkashyna and Alina Harnasko.
rhythmic_gymnastics: These apparatuses are determined by the FIG for each season.
rhythmic_gymnastics: It has been taught and performed with the aim of improving physical strength and health as early as the 1940s, and the national intercollegiate competition began in 1949.
rhythmic_gymnastics: He focused on using the entire body in movement and developed the use of apparatuses, particularly balls, hoops, and clubs.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Routines performed without any apparatus are known as freehand.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Clubs
The clubs may be made of wood or synthetic materials, and they may be covered with decorative adhesive tape.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The dancer Isadora Duncan was significant in the development of rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The difficulty score is open-ended with no maximum, while the execution and artistry scores have a starting value of 10 points and are lowered for specific mistakes made by the gymnasts.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The first few years of rhythmic gymnastics competition did not yet have a code of points.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rhythmic gymnasts wear special slippers that cover their toes but not heels to reduce friction for rotations.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The artistic score is scored out of a maximum of 10 points and is based on harmony between music and movements, use of space, and originality, with deductions for lack of required elements or stepping out of bounds, and so on.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In the 1973–1976 code, for individuals, difficulty accounted for five points of the score.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Held July 18, 2013 at Yoyogi National Stadium in Tokyo, the show drew an audience of 2,600.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The portable apparatus events were only performed as a group and lasted between four and five minutes, much longer than a modern group routine.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, rhythmic gymnastics is growing in other countries.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2011, the FIG decided to eliminate the use of rope in senior individual rhythmic gymnastics competitions.
rhythmic_gymnastics: There were two team portable apparatus events at the 1952 and 1956 Olympics, which used similar apparatuses to modern rhythmic gymnastics, before it was decided that it should be a separate discipline.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Currently, men's and women's rhythmic gymnastics are both under the umbrella of the Japan Gymnastics Association, and major competitions for both are often held at the same venue.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The school she and her mother, Albina Deriugina, opened, the Deriugins School, has played an important role in the success of rhythmic gymnastics in the country, training gymnasts like Olympic medalists Olexandra Tymoshenko and Oxana Skaldina.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Execution is scored out of a maximum of 10 points, based on quality of execution, accuracy of performance, and synchronization, with deductions taken for mistakes or lack of movements in unison, etc.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Beginning in 1947, All-Soviet Union competitions were held yearly in various locations across the Soviet Union, and the sport began to spread to other countries in Europe.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Strength and power are the main focus, as well as apparatus handling, flexibility and movements called "Toshu" ("freehand").
rhythmic_gymnastics: The 2005 Championships also included competitors from Australia, Russia, and Mexico.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Its name was changed to modern rhythmic gymnastics, then again to rhythmic sportive gymnastics, and finally to rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The hoop, rope, and ball were the first official apparatuses, with the ribbon being added in 1971 and the clubs in 1973.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Since their first competition in 1971, the Japanese group, known as "Fairy Japan", has never finished lower than 10th (except in 2003, 16th) in the all-around at the World Championships.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, there are clubs that allow women to train in men's rhythmic gymnastics, and some club competitions include a category for mixed-gender groups.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Evgenia Kanaeva became the first individual rhythmic gymnast to win two gold medals in the Olympic Games at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and 2012 London Olympics and won 17 World Championship medals during her career, including three all-around golds.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Israeli head coach Irina Vigdorchik, who moved from Moscow to Israel in 1979, said rhythmic gymnastics had been brought to Israel by Russian immigrants in the early 1970s.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They made more mistakes when judging the mixed apparatus routine compared to the single-apparatus routine.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Ball
The ball may be made of rubber or a similar synthetic material, and it can be of any color.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rhythmic gymnastics is governed by World Gymnastics, which first recognized it as a sport in 1963.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Risk elements were introduced in the 1989–1992 code, and the required difficulties were changed to four superior and four medium.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Deductions for poor connections between elements and poor connection to the music (such as a musical accent not being emphasized by the gymnast's movements) are 0.10 points each and can be taken up to 20 times in one exercise.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Each apparatus difficulty has either one base element and two or more criteria executed during that base, or the base element of a catch from a high throw combined with a second base element and one or more criteria executed during both bases.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The Israeli group won their first World all-around title in 2023, and they went on to win the all-around silver medal at the 2024 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: She is also one of few gymnasts to have won gold medals at the World championships as both an individual and group member.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Japan has a long tradition in group rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The other began development in Spain and uses the same rules and apparatuses as women's rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In addition, judges may be affected by fatigue at long competitions or by high temperatures in competition rounds where ribbon routines are being performed; air conditioning is typically turned off during those rounds because it can cause drafts that interfere with the ribbon's movement.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Unitards were popular through the late 90s but became less common afterward.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The 1993–1996 code increased the required number of body difficulties to 12 and divided them into four categories of difficulty rather than two.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Originally, both boys and girls used to perform this type of gymnastics, called "Dantai Toshu Taisou", literally "group freehand gymnastics".
rhythmic_gymnastics: A base is a basic movement or usage of the apparatus, such as a large roll of the hoop, and a criterion is a way of performing a movement which makes it more difficult, such as performing it outside of the visual field or without using the hands.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The first two codes were valid from 1970 to 1971 and 1971–1972; beginning with the 1973–1976 code, the Code of Points is adjusted after each Olympics, although smaller changes are made during each Olympic cycle.
rhythmic_gymnastics: This change came into effect for individual routines as well at the end of 1989.
rhythmic_gymnastics: This is the case for individual juniors as well since 2020.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Brazil was also an early participant in rhythmic gymnastics, sending their first gymnast to the third World championships in 1967, and their group choreography was influential in the 1970s.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In addition, gymnasts may perform full body waves, which are a wave of movement through the whole body from the head through the feet or vice versa.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, the federation soon announced that there would be a separate category for men using the same rules as the open category.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Two sets of dance steps are required for each exercise.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Oksana Kostina became Russia's first World champion as an independent country.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2020, a mixed-gender category was added for groups.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The development of muscle strength, agility, and speed in rhythmic gymnasts have also been under-studied.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rhythmic gymnastics became an Olympic sport in 1984, when the individual all-around event was first competed, and the group competition was added to the Olympics in 1996.
rhythmic_gymnastics: After the breakup of the Soviet Union, Ukraine continued its success in rhythmic gymnastics, with Kateryna Serebrianska winning the Olympic gold medal at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics and Olena Vitrychenko winning bronze.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Margarita Mamun continued the streak of individual gold medalists at the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics, while the competition favorite, three-time World champion Yana Kudryavtseva, took silver because of a drop in her clubs routine during the finals.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Andrea Molnár-Bodó, a gold medalist in the Team Portable Apparatus event as a member of the Hungarian team at the 1956 Summer Olympics, moved to the United States after the Olympics and also promoted rhythmic gymnastics there as a coach and judge.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Spain has a long tradition in rhythmic gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Freehand was an event for the four first World Championships before being dropped, with the reasoning being that the freehand exercises tended to be too theatrical and include too many ballet elements.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Modern leotards are typically highly decorated and may contain hand-painted details and large numbers of crystals, which can make them very expensive, and gymnasts at high levels typically wear different leotards to compete with different apparatuses.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Men's rhythmic gymnasts from Aomori University also performed at the 2016 Summer Olympics closing ceremony.
rhythmic_gymnastics: A small number of men in other countries such as Mexico, Bulgaria, Greece, and Italy have also trained in rhythmic gymnastics, and some have competed in unofficial competitions or the Spanish championships.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Arina Averina achieved significant success, consistently earning medals in major international competitions, including the World and European Championships.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Other countries in East Asia have developed world class gymnasts, such as South Korean Son Yeon-jae, who gained popularity in her home country after she finished fifth at the 2012 Summer Olympics and fourth at the 2016 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Influenced by German teachers, several Finnish and Swedish gymnastics teachers, such as Elli Björkstén, Elin Falk, and Maja Carlquist, began to develop their own system of gymnastics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Although it has not gained as much of a following compared to its artistic gymnastics counterpart in the Americas, it is a rising sport.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The FIG Gender Equality Commission met in spring 2024 to discuss the lack of men at the international level; the FIG secretary general was reprimanded for making discriminatory comments at the meeting.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Since 2011, senior individual gymnasts perform four different routines with hoop, ball, clubs and ribbon.
rhythmic_gymnastics: It is still sometimes seen in junior group competition.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Depending on the surface a gymnast is practicing on, they may be worn through in a week or two.
rhythmic_gymnastics: New difficulties may be submitted to the technical committee by coaches.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The 1989–1992 code specified that geometric and flower designs were allowed, but designs such as those that mimicked other clothing like vests or things like animals were not.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At lower levels of the sport, rhythmic gymnastics training may have a protective effect against back pain.
rhythmic_gymnastics: From 1928 through 1956, group events with apparatuses were sometimes performed as events in women's artistic gymnastics, such as club performances at the World Artistic Gymnastics Championships.
rhythmic_gymnastics: China was the first country outside of Europe to medal at the Olympics in the group event (silver at the 2008 Summer Olympics) and was also the first non-European country to win the Olympic title in the group event at the 2024 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In the 1980s, new difficulty elements were introduced to give greater prominence to flexibility and risk releases, and to encourage originality.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2019, they won their first World gold medal in the 5 balls apparatus final as well as another silver.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Robert Bode trained at the Dalcroze Eurythmic College and went on to found his own school.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique
rhythmic_gymnastics: The 2025–2028 code reduced the maximum number of difficulties counted in the exercise to give more room for artistic expression and transitions between elements.
rhythmic_gymnastics: As with women's rhythmic gymnastics, there are two types of routines: group events (always freehand, meaning no apparatus), originally with six people and with five since 2024, and individual events performed using an apparatus (stick, rings, rope, or clubs).
rhythmic_gymnastics: Test events for the Olympic Games were held in 2000, 2004, 2008, 2012, and 2016.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The gymnast must work the entire floor area whilst showing continuous flowing movement.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The remaining five points were made up of originality, relation to the music, execution, and general impression.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Possible penalties include:
rhythmic_gymnastics: Under the 2017–2021 code of points, individuals could use lyrics with music for two routines.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The Spanish group won the first gold medal of the new competition with a group formed by Estela Giménez, Marta Baldó, Nuria Cabanillas, Lorena Guréndez, Estíbaliz Martínez and Tania Lamarca.
rhythmic_gymnastics: She became the first rhythmic gymnast to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by earning full marks in all her routines (total of 8) at a World Championship, and she received the trophy personally from the President of the International Olympic Committee at the time, Juan Antonio Samaranch.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Gymnasts most frequently report pain and injury in the lower back and lower limbs, such as the hip, knee, or ankle.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Stebbins provided the means, rationale, and model for exercise for middle-class women.
rhythmic_gymnastics: As under the 2001–2004 code, the final mark was obtained by adding difficulty (body difficulties, again reduced to twelve, masteries performed with the apparatus, and risk elements), artistry and execution; each had a maximum value of 10 points, so the final score would be a maximum of 30 points.
rhythmic_gymnastics: A study of routines performed at the 2019 Junior World Championships found that a number of elements were performed with spinal hyper-extension, particularly leaps.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 1985, the score was composed of composition (technical + artistry) and execution, each of which was scored out of 5 points.
rhythmic_gymnastics: From 1834, Pehr Henrik Ling further developed this idea in his 19th-century Swedish system of free exercise, which promoted "aesthetic gymnastics", in which students expressed their feelings and emotions through body movement.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Her free dancing style incorporated running and jumping movements.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The allowed body difficulties increased to twelve, and the number of flexibility-related difficulties in the code more than doubled from 11 to 24.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Bianka Panova became the first rhythmic gymnast to make a clean sweep of all five individual events at a World Championship.
rhythmic_gymnastics: While she promoted the exercises as being for all children, she emphasized that girls were especially lacking in exercise and that their health suffered for it.
rhythmic_gymnastics: After 2011, rope began to be transitioned out of the sport, with the FIG saying that it was less visually appealing than the other apparatus.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The gymnasts were more likely to report having pain, with the most frequent reports being of pain in the lumbar spine or ankle; however, they were less likely than the control group to report pain in other areas.
rhythmic_gymnastics: International competitive rhythmic gymnastics is restricted to female participants.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The teachings of Duncan, Jacques-Dalcroze, Delsarte, and Demeny were brought together at the Soviet Union's High School of Artistic Movement when it was founded in 1932, and soon thereafter, an early version of rhythmic gymnastics was established as a sport for girls.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Beginning in 2022, the code of points explicitly states that the wording of the rules applies to people of all genders.
rhythmic_gymnastics: These can include multiple apparatuses being thrown at once or gymnasts lifting another gymnast.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 1885, an American student of Delsarte, Genevieve Stebbins, published her first book, The Delsarte System of Expression.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rhythmic gymnastics grew out of the ideas of Jean-Georges Noverre (1727–1810), François Delsarte (1811–1871), and Rudolf Bode (1881–1970), who all believed in movement expression, where one used to dance to express oneself and exercise various body parts.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Bulgarian gymnasts continued to have success into the 1990s, with Mila Marinova winning five medals at the 1991 World Championships and the rise of Maria Petrova, who dominated competition in the mid-1990s to become a three-time World all-around champion and three-time European all-around champion.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Rhythmic gymnastics is a sport in which gymnasts perform individually or in groups on a floor with an apparatus: hoop, ball, clubs, ribbon and rope.
rhythmic_gymnastics: During the 1880s, Émile Jaques-Dalcroze of Switzerland developed eurhythmics, a form of physical training for musicians and dancers.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They placed 6th in the Olympic games in both Rio 2016 and Tokyo 2020.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Historically, four out of the five possible apparatuses were selected by the FIG to be used by individual gymnasts each season.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Ribbon elements consist of making continuous shapes with the length of the fabric, such as tight circles (spirals) or waves (snakes), and elements called boomerangs, in which the gymnast tosses the handle, then pulls it back by the end of the ribbon and catches it.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Execution penalties are subtracted from the starting score of 10 and range in size from 0.10 points for a small fault, such as poor amplitude in a body wave or a small deviation from the desired shape of a leap, to 1.00 points, such as for dropping or losing the apparatus outside the floor area.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In France, men are allowed to participate in lower-level national competitions, while in Spain, there is a national rhythmic gymnastics championships for men and mixed-sex group competitions.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They may be connected together by inserting the end of one club into the head of the other.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Clubs elements including swinging the heads of the clubs in circles, small throws in which the clubs rotate in the air, and asymmetrical movements.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Groups consist of five gymnasts since 1995; prior to that, they were composed of six.
rhythmic_gymnastics: However, many federations from the Eastern Bloc and countries were forced to boycott by the Soviet Union, in a way similar to the boycott forced on many nations by the United States of the 1980 Moscow Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: According to the chief designer of Sasaki Sports, custom leotard orders can take 3 to 5 months to complete.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Belarus has had success in both individual and group rhythmic gymnastics after the breakup of the Soviet Union.
rhythmic_gymnastics: For groups, apparatus difficulties include collaborations between all five gymnasts, in which each gymnast works with one or more apparatuses and one or more partners.
rhythmic_gymnastics: A study performed in 2023 using the FIG's judging evaluation statistics found that there was significant national bias in aerobic, artistic, and rhythmic gymnastics judging.
rhythmic_gymnastics: In 2013, the code dropped the artistic score again, and artistry was instead evaluated as part of execution.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Ribbon
The ribbon consists of a handle, which may be made of wood, bamboo, or synthetic materials such as fiberglass, and the ribbon itself, which is made of satin.
rhythmic_gymnastics: George Demeny of France created exercises to music that were designed to promote grace of movement, muscular flexibility, and good posture, and some exercises included apparatuses.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Hoop
The hoop comes up to about the gymnast's hip.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The Spanish group also won the silver medal at the 2016 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Linoy Ashram was the first Israeli to win the Olympic all-around gold medal; her win was considered an upset over favorite Dina Averina.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They can be performed alone or in a dynamic balance, in which the gymnast performs at least three balances in combination on the same foot with a turn between each balance.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Gymnasts start at a young age; it is considered an early specialization sport.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Hanna Rizatdinova won the bronze medal at the 2016 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The first Olympic champion, competing in the absence of most of the dominant Eastern European countries due to the boycott of the 1984 Olympics, was Canadian Lori Fung.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The ribbon is six meters long, and due to its length, it can easily become tangled or knotted.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Leotards were originally simple, with decorations such as flowers or sequins not allowed.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Influenced by Delsarte, Jaques-Dalcroze, and possibly by Stebbins, she developed her own theory of dance that departed from more rigid traditions like that of ballet.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Therefore, in 2018, the difficulty score became open-ended for the first time.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Former gymnast Michelle Smith suggested that they might help older athletes feel more confident at a time when it was becoming more common for gymnasts to continue competing into their 20s.
rhythmic_gymnastics: This is the case for individuals at some competitions, while at others, there is a separate all-around final round where the top qualifying gymnasts (maximum two per country) compete four routines.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Group gymnasts compete two routines, one in which there are five of the same apparatus (such as five balls) and one in which there are two of one apparatus  and three of another (such as two hoops and three ribbons).
rhythmic_gymnastics: For individual performances, a gymnast manipulates one or two pieces of apparatus (double rings, stick, clubs, rope) to demonstrate their skill at apparatus handling, throws, and catches as well as the difficulty of the tumbling.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Junior groups perform two different routines with two different types of apparatus (for example, a routine with 5 hoops and a routine with 5 ribbons).
rhythmic_gymnastics: On the individual level, the 2022 World champion was the Italian Sofia Raffaeli, who also won the bronze medal at the 2024 Summer Olympics.
rhythmic_gymnastics: "Flying Bodies" was also captured in a 78-minute documentary by director Hiroyuki Nakano that follows the coaches, gymnasts and creative team for the three months leading up to the performance.
rhythmic_gymnastics: The score is evaluated during the routine without a predetermined difficulty sheet, unlike with some earlier Codes.
rhythmic_gymnastics: At competitions, gymnasts are judged on their artistry, execution of skills, and difficulty of skills.
rhythmic_gymnastics: Dubbed "harmonic gymnastics", it encouraged late nineteenth-century American women to engage in physical culture and expression, in defiance of traditional gender norms.
rhythmic_gymnastics: They perform leaps, balances, and rotations (spins) along with handling the apparatus.
