road_cycling: Most fatal bike crashes were caused between 6 P.M.
road_cycling: As users of the road, road cyclists are generally expected to obey the same laws as motorists, however there are certain exceptions.
road_cycling: Demand for road bicycles as well as other types of bicycles continued to increase throughout 2021.
road_cycling: At higher speeds, wind resistance becomes an important factor; at speeds above 30 km/h (19 mph), overcoming aerodynamic drag accounts for over 75% of a cyclist's expended energy.
road_cycling: Road bicycles generally have thinner tires, lighter frames with no suspension, and a set of drop handle bars to allow riders to get in a more aerodynamic position while cycling at higher speeds.
road_cycling: Invest in a rear tail light.
road_cycling: If you have shoe laces, make sure they are tied so they do not get caught in the drivetrain.
road_cycling: That being said, road cyclists also have the same fundamental rights as motorists.
road_cycling: Accell Group
Cervelo
Dorel Sports
Giant Bicycles
Merida Industry Co., Ltd
Pinarello
Shimano
SRAM
Specialized Bicycle Components, Inc.
road_cycling: In 2020, it was estimated that about 44.5 million people worldwide participate in road cycling, which is an increase of about five million people since 2019.
road_cycling: Scott Sports SA
Trek Bicycle Corporation
road_cycling: Check to make sure that your brakes work.
road_cycling: and about 78% of fatal crashes in 2019 were in urban areas.
road_cycling: Aerodynamic road bikes have been developed over the years to ensure that as much as possible of the rider's energy is spent propelling the bike forward.
road_cycling: While laws on wearing helmets vary by jurisdiction in the United States, Australia and New Zealand, helmets significantly reduce the risk of serious injury and death in the event of an accident.
road_cycling: On a flat road, an intermediate cyclist can average about 18 to 20 mph (29 to 32 km/h), while a professional rider can average up to 25 mph (40 km/h).
road_cycling: Since its origins, millions of people have adopted road cycling for either recreation or commuting.
road_cycling: While this first race was not considered a road race, road cycling races began to pop up throughout Europe in the 1870s.
road_cycling: The first steel bicycles weighed as much as 80 pounds, whereas the lightest carbon fiber road bikes now can weigh as little as thirteen pounds.
road_cycling: Road cycling as a form of recreational activity as well as a way to commute began to gain traction shortly after these first road races.
road_cycling: Wear reflective gear as much as possible.
road_cycling: It includes recreational, racing, commuting, and utility cycling.
road_cycling: Use bike lanes as much as possible.
road_cycling: Road cycling is the most widespread form of cycling in which cyclists ride on paved roadways.
road_cycling: In the U.S., laws for cyclists vary by state, so it is important to keep up to date on your state's road cycling laws.
road_cycling: On May 31, 1868, cycling officially became a sport with the first race occurring at Saint-Cloud Park in France.
road_cycling: Plan your route with caution.
road_cycling: While there are many types of bicycles that are used on the roads such as BMX, recumbents, racing, touring and utility bicycles, dedicated road bicycles have specific characteristics that make them ideal for the sport.
road_cycling: Bicycle safety
Bicycle messenger
Cycle rickshaw
Cycling infrastructure
Outline of cycling
Road Bike Racing
Tour de France
Grand Tours
road_cycling: Some tips for crash prevention are:
road_cycling: You can find a breakdown of all cycling laws by state here.
