rock_climbing: Güllich and Huber made ever-bolder single-pitch free solo climbs, while Sharma pushed standards in deep-water soloing; Alex Honnold's big wall free soloing became the Oscar-winning film, Free Solo.
rock_climbing: This revolution in the design of indoor climbing holds has affected how climbers now approach outdoor routes.
rock_climbing: This frequency and severity of these injuries have been amplified by the used of advanced plyometric training devices such as the campus board, and by the use of advanced climbing techniques such as the "drop-knee".
rock_climbing: The  equipment needed varies significantly with the route being undertaken and the type of climbing that is being followed.
rock_climbing: Traversing routes, by their horizontal nature, can extend to great distances, and the world's longest rock climb is the 4,500-metre (14,800 ft) El Capitan Girdle Traverse on El Capitan.
rock_climbing: Malham Cove, Céüse, and the Verdon Gorge), and on sandstone, which can have sculpted features (e.g.
rock_climbing: Unlike top-rope climbing, top-rope solo climbing is an advanced type of climbing, and there have been fatalities where the PCD did not automatically lock and the climber fell to the ground; it is also used in big wall climbing.
rock_climbing: Modern climbing ropes are 50–80 metres (160–260 ft) long and can be dynamic ropes, which stretch to absorb the energy of a falling climber (and thus absorb higher fall factors), or can be the less expensive but more hard-wearing static ropes for fixed ropeing.
rock_climbing: no in-situ protection).
rock_climbing: Miscellaneous.
rock_climbing: such as belay devices and self-locking devices), for moving up a fixed static rope (e.g.
rock_climbing: Gaston (after its creator, Gaston Rébuffat), is an opposite version of a side-pull where the climber is pushing horizontally against the vertical crack or edge, in a similar action to a person prizing open an elevator door; it can place unusual strains on the shoulders which can cause injury.
rock_climbing: If such a climber completes the route on their first attempt it is called an onsight.
rock_climbing: Single-pitch climbing started pre-1900 in both the Lake District and in Saxony, and by the 1970s had spread globally led by climbers such as Ron Fawcett (Britain), Bernd Arnold (Germany), Patrick Berhault (France), Ron Kauk and John Bachar (USA).
rock_climbing: While the technique is used to some degree on almost every type of rock climbing route, it is most associated with 'slab climbing' where the ability to 'smear' is essential because of the smooth and featureless nature of the surface.
rock_climbing: Climbers who ascend a new route but using aid have made a first ascent (or FA), whereas climbers who ascend a new route and do it without aid have made the more coveted first free ascent (FFA).
rock_climbing: Rope solo climbing.
rock_climbing: ISBN 978-1846892622.
rock_climbing: the British Mountaineering Council).
rock_climbing: Since the introduction of bolted sport-climbing in the 1980s, there has been a debate in the climbing world on their use in providing protection (sport climbing bolts do not provide any aid in upward momentum), as they can alter the challenge and risk of a climbing route.
rock_climbing: the whole body in the crack), the "arm jam", the "hand/fist jam", the "toe jam", and the "finger jam".
rock_climbing: VII, VIII, IX, X, ...) is popular in Germany and central Europe.
rock_climbing: These aiders are clipped into the protection devices (see above), however, aid climbers can also hammer into the rock additional options like copperheads and hooks.
rock_climbing: Important new grade milestones in free climbing are mostly set on single-pitch climbs and have included notable routes such as Action Directe, Realization, Jumbo Love and Silence.
rock_climbing: rubber shoes, spring-loaded camming devices, and campus boards) and rock-climbing technique (e.g.
rock_climbing: Above the lowest grades, these three systems can be exactly aligned at each level.
rock_climbing: A related technique is that of 'pinching' which is used on even smaller holds.
rock_climbing: Historically, novices often started as a 'belayer' to an outdoor lead climber on a natural climbing route.
rock_climbing: Dynamic moves (or 'Dynos'), are where the climber 'jumps' through a sequence of holds, some of which can only hold the climber for an instant (a 'paddle dyno'), to make the next hold.
rock_climbing: The free climb of one of the most famous big-wall routes in history, The Nose on El Capitan, relies on a "manufactured" traverse that was chipped out of the granite rock by Ray Jardine (and is called "Jardine's Traverse").
rock_climbing: Here, the climbing protection has been pre-drilled into the rock in the form of bolts.
rock_climbing: The main types of rock climbing can trace their origins to late 19th-century Europe, with bouldering in Fontainebleau, big wall climbing in the Dolomites, and single-pitch climbing in both the Lake District and in Saxony.
rock_climbing: They pre-drilled bolts into routes as climbing protection (but not as artificial aid to help upward momentum), which became known as "sport climbing".
rock_climbing: One of the most distinctive aspects of modern rock climbing is the use of climbing chalk for grip and medical tape for skin wear.
rock_climbing: The Inner Wall, a 2018 short documentary film from Reel Rock (Season 4, Episode 2) on Andy Kirkpatrick rope solo aid climbing on El Capitan.
rock_climbing: Free-climbing encompasses bouldering on short 5-metre (16 ft) routes, single-pitch climbing on up to 60–70-metre (200–230 ft) routes, multi-pitch climbing — and big wall climbing — on routes of up to 1,000 metres (3,300 ft).
rock_climbing: Mountaineering: The Freedom of the Hills (9th ed.).
rock_climbing: Single-pitch climbing.
rock_climbing: The other member — the 'belayer' (or 'second') — will remain standing at the base of the route but controlling the other end of the rope, which is called belaying.
rock_climbing: Mount Arapiles).
rock_climbing: 'Palming' is smearing with the open hands, and is used on smooth holds that cannot be gripped by the fingers, which are called 'slopers'.
rock_climbing: In practice, the average single-pitch route tends to be 25–35 metres (82–115 ft) in height, and is the most common form of rock climbing in lead climbing.
rock_climbing: The extensive use of large volume holds (also sloper holds) by route setters in competition lead climbing and competition bouldering has also made 'smearing' and 'palming' an important technique for contemporary competition climbers (see photo).
rock_climbing: Magic Wood), on dolomite (e.g.
rock_climbing: Competition combined climbing.
rock_climbing: In 1988, the Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme (UIAA) created rules and created the International Council for Competition Climbing (ICCC) to regulate competition climbing, and in 1998, the ICCC added bouldering and speed climbing as new events.
rock_climbing: Top rope solo climbing.
rock_climbing: Aside from the obvious physical risks of a fall in rock climbing, climbers are known to experience tendon (particularly on the fingers and arms), and joint (particularly on the knees and shoulders) injuries.
rock_climbing: Various devices are used to connect items to climbing ropes and to slings that include equipment such as metal carabiners and quickdraws, lanyard and personal anchor systems, and also includes the climbing harness, which connects the climber themselves to their rope.
rock_climbing: Climbers have spoken about the prevalence of eating disorders, particularly in competition climbing as athletes seek to optimize their strength-to-weight ratio.
rock_climbing: Aid climbing equipment.
rock_climbing: A further refinement of "style" is a free climb by a climber who had never seen the route beforehand, and had never been told about its challenges and how to overcome them (called the beta).
rock_climbing: The rules said that only natural holds were allowed, and these "rules for free climbing" are in still use today.
rock_climbing: During the 1980s and 1990s in the US, this debate became so heated that it was known as the "bolt wars", with climbers bolt chopping (i.e.
rock_climbing: A climb can involve a combination of several types depending on the skill and risk appetite of the climber(s).
rock_climbing: For multi-pitch (and big wall) climbing:
Hardest lead sport climbing redpoint:
For men: 9a (5.14d), the first being Tommy Caldwell and Kevin Jorgeson in 2015 on The Dawn Wall.
rock_climbing: Many such country-level rock-climbing associations also represent the related sport of mountaineering, from which rock-climbing evolved during the 19th and 20th centuries (e.g.
rock_climbing: Once controversial, the use of knee pads and ground coverage from bouldering mats have now become commonplace at climbing venues.
rock_climbing: Climbers also use climbing helmets (especially in multi-pitch climbing), and specialized equipment such as belay gloves and belay glasses when belaying.
rock_climbing: Contemporary rock climbing is focused on free climbing where — unlike with aid climbing —  no mechanical aids can be used to assist with upward momentum.
rock_climbing: Competition lead climbing.
rock_climbing: Notable modern examples of routes that require advanced laybacking and bridging include the much-photographed crux-pitch of the big wall route, Pre-Muir Wall, on El Capitan, and the groove-pitch of the multi-pitch route, The Quarryman, in Wales.
rock_climbing: The Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme (UIAA) is an important international representative association for mountaineering that also represents rock climbing and ice climbing, particularly in the areas of equipment quality standards and competition climbing.
rock_climbing: removing in-situ protection) on routes they considered to be traditional-only routes (i.e.
rock_climbing: Deep-water soloing.
rock_climbing: Modern climbing shoes give rock climbers increased grip and ability to step onto and hold tiny 'edges' (called edging).
rock_climbing: Highball bouldering routes are up to circa 10–12 metres (33–39 ft) in height and therefore any fall can be more serious; the climber is now getting into the realm of free soloing; notable highballs include Livin' Large and The Process.
rock_climbing: Fitch, Nate; Funderburke, Ron (July 2016).
rock_climbing: In 1964, a new artificial indoor climbing wall built in a corridor of Leeds University began to produce climbers who, after exclusively training as students on the wall, could climb some of the hardest routes in Britain when they ventured into the outdoor environment.
rock_climbing: 5.9, 5.10a, 5.10b, 5.10c, 5.10d, 5.11a, ...).
rock_climbing: Free solo climbing.
rock_climbing: the switch to clean aid "hammerless" climbing and the greater awareness of the adverse effect of climbing on the environment).
rock_climbing: In theory, all bouldering is free soloing but the term is usually only applied to single-pitch climbing and multi-pitch climbing.
rock_climbing: For example, The Nose on El Capitan which can be climbed by strong big wall climbers using aid techniques on some pitches, but only a handful of the world's leading climbers have completely free climbed all pitches.
rock_climbing: For bouldering, the most dominant worldwide grading systems are the French Font system (e.g.
rock_climbing: Hardest lead sport climbing onsight/flash:
For men: 9a+ (5.15a), the first and only being Adam Ondra in 2018 on SuperCrackinette (flash).
rock_climbing: For women: 8c+ (5.14c), the first being Beth Rodden in 2008 on  Meltdown.
rock_climbing: Rock-climbing technique is built on having an effective body position and balance to maximize the conservation of energy and thus climb efficiently.
rock_climbing: Crimping and edging are most associated with 'face climbing' where there are no big features on which to 'layback' or to 'bridge', and no cracks in which to 'jam'.
rock_climbing: The broad range of types is helpful in offering novice climbers alternative paths into the sport.
rock_climbing: Double ropes will reduce rope drag.
rock_climbing: A sub-class of free solo climbing done on single-pitch routes that are above water.
rock_climbing: Important new first ascents are also chronicled and discussed in specialist rock climbing media, including climbing magazines and climbing journals with notable examples including Alpinist, and Climbing, which are read globally.
rock_climbing: A simul-climbing pair will insert points of climbing protection as they progress — as in normal lead climbing — but will add PCDs at some of these points to lock the rope in case one or both of them fall.
rock_climbing: Traditional climbing is much riskier and more physically demanding than sport climbing as finding places in which to insert the protection — while simultaneously  ascending — drains energy, and poor placements can lead to protection failing in the event of a fall.
rock_climbing: The mountaineering discipline of alpine climbing, which is climbing long multi-pitch routes on mountain faces such as the Great north faces of the Alps, can involve multi-pitch rock climbing.
rock_climbing: Rope connectors.
rock_climbing: Drop knee (or the 'Egyptian'), allows the climber to stay close to the surface of an overhanging route which in turn allows them to reach higher; the drop knee can put significant stresses on the knee joints from odd angles and can lead to injuries.
rock_climbing: The arrival of steel pitons after World War 2, ushered in a golden age of big wall aid climbing on the granite cracks of Yosemite (the cracks were then too difficult to be free-climbed).
rock_climbing: nuts and hexes), and active (e.g.
rock_climbing: As a further refinement, some have argued that when free climbing a specific single-pitch route, 'highball bouldering' is a better "style" than 'traditional climbing', which is itself a better "style" than 'sport climbing'.
rock_climbing: gluing back broken holds).
rock_climbing: The Mountaineers (2018).
rock_climbing: For women: 8C+ (V16), the first and only being Katie Lamb in 2025 on The Dark Side.
rock_climbing: Protection devices.
rock_climbing: Originally all leading was traditional where the 'lead climber' inserts temporary (or removable) protection as they ascend.
rock_climbing: The wide variety of types of rock climbing offers safe ways for beginners to access the sport before learning to lead climb, including top roping and bouldering, and many will try leading on sport-routes first before attempting traditional-routes.
rock_climbing: In 1958, a team led by Warren Harding made the coveted first ascent of The Nose on El Capitan hammering in 600 pitons and 125 bolts into the route over 47 days; while the ascent got worldwide recognition it was controversial due to the excessive use of aid.
rock_climbing: Hubble in Britain).
rock_climbing: The sport came to international attention Chris Sharma's ascent of the dramatic sea-arch of Es Pontàs in 2006, whose grade ranked it as one of the world's hardest rock climbs of any type at that time.
rock_climbing: They include slabs, faces, cracks and overhangs/roofs.
rock_climbing: Where possible, the arms should be kept straight, thus holding the body weight on the joints and not on flexed arm muscles, with the 'climbing' driven by the stronger legs.
rock_climbing: Once the 'lead climber' reaches the top, they create an anchor from which they can act as the 'belayer' (but from above), controlling the rope while the 'second' ascends.
rock_climbing: Dawes is also noted for his unique "no-hands demonstrations" where he climbs extreme-graded rock climbing routes but uses only his feet and the smearing technique for upward momentum.
rock_climbing: These are supplemented by popular online climbing websites  such as UK Climbing and PlanetMountain, as well as country-level specialist rock climbing magazines such as Desnivel (in Spanish), Grimper (in French) and Klettern (in German).
rock_climbing: Big wall climbing started in the Dolomites, and spread across the Alps in the 1930s led by Emilio Comici and Riccardo Cassin, and in the 1950s by Walter Bonatti, before reaching Yosemite where it was led in the 1950s to 1970s by Royal Robbins.
rock_climbing: Now, novices often begin with bouldering, and some never move beyond the discipline.
rock_climbing: Hooking is also used in competition climbing to gain a stable resting position, allowing the lactic acid to be shaken from the arms before carrying on.
rock_climbing: Aid climbing.
rock_climbing: As of August 2025, the following milestones are recognized (only the first person(s) to achieve the milestone is shown):
rock_climbing: Bolt chopping still goes on today, however, many climbing areas, with the assistance and support of regulatory bodies, have introduced formal policies regarding bolt use.
rock_climbing: For bouldering:
For men: 9A (V17), the first being Nalle Hukkataival in 2016 on Burden of Dreams.
rock_climbing: Hard Grit, a 1998 documentary film about traditional climbing on extreme gritstone routes in the British Peak District.
rock_climbing: the American Alpine Club) and can have an influence on Government policy in areas that interest the sport such as land access.
rock_climbing: Following on from this trend, comparison tables have been produced to align bouldering grades with their equivalent technical free climbing grades, where for example, free climbing grades of 5.13d (8b) are generally equated with the bouldering grades of V10 (7C+).
rock_climbing: The 'belayer' uses a mechanical belay device to attach the rope to their harness from which they can 'pay-out' the rope as the 'lead climber' ascends but with which they can lock the rope if the 'lead climber' falls.
rock_climbing: Grade milestones are chronicled for various types of rock climbing, and are often split by gender.
rock_climbing: These routes are above bouldering height and extend to the length of a climbing rope in height — which is about circa 60–70 metres (200–230 ft) — so that they can be climbed as one 'pitch'.
rock_climbing: Mechanical devices that provided climbing protection only (i.e.
rock_climbing: The ever-growing volume and range of new rock climbing routes are recorded via specialist diagrams called topos, which are collated in climbing guidebooks and more latterly on large online rock climbing databases such as theCrag.com and MountainProject.com.
rock_climbing: While many countries with a strong tradition of climbing developed their own grading systems, a small number of grading systems have become internationally dominant for each type of climbing, which has contributed to the standardization of grades worldwide.
rock_climbing: The evolution in technical milestones in rock climbing is tied to the development in rock-climbing equipment (e.g.
rock_climbing: 'Hooking' involves using the legs and feet to grab — or "hook" — onto features on the rock.
rock_climbing: And when I say 8C boulder problem, I really mean it.
rock_climbing: The UIAA system (e.g.
rock_climbing: the use of aid or "fair means" climbing, the use of bolts in sport climbing, and the use of "chipping" to manufacture holds), and what is appropriate for the protection of the environment (e.g.
rock_climbing: For women: 8c (5.14b), the first being Sasha DiGiulian, Brette Harrington, and Matilda Söderlund in 2022 on Rayu.
rock_climbing: Ropes and slings.
rock_climbing: In places where the walls are completely opposing, the technique of bridging becomes the even more spectacular technique of 'chimneying'.
rock_climbing: Famous early examples include Joe Brown's Cenotaph Corner in 1952 in Dinas Cromlech in Wales.
rock_climbing: Lead climbing.
rock_climbing: As of June 2026, the hardest technical lead climbing grade is 9c (5.15d) for men and 9b+ (5.15c) for women, and the hardest technical bouldering grade is V17 (9A) for men and V16 (8C+) for women.
rock_climbing: In 2017, Adam Ondra described the crux of Silence in the following terms: "Then comes the crux boulder problem, 10 moves of 8C [French boulder].
rock_climbing: Routes are documented in guidebooks, and on online databases, detailing how to climb the route (called the beta), and who made the first ascent (or FA) and the coveted first free ascent (or FFA).
rock_climbing: How the rope is attached to the rock face, depends on the following:
rock_climbing: GB Climbing is a sub-group of the British Mountaineering Council), and some of which are completely independent (e.g.
rock_climbing: A free climb where the climber attempts the route many times before finally ascending it is called a redpoint; most major new FFAs in rock climbing are done as redpoints.
rock_climbing: The sport's profile was increased when lead climbing, bouldering, and speed climbing became medal events in the Summer Olympics, and with the popularity of films such as Free Solo and The Dawn Wall.
rock_climbing: Free Solo, a 2018 Netflix documentary film about Alex Honnold's free solo climb of Freerider 5.13a (7c+) on El Capitan.
rock_climbing: Typically these are actual boulders (e.g.
rock_climbing: A famous 1972 essay by big wall pioneers Yvon Chouinard and Tom Frost called for an end to hammer (and piton) intensive aid climbing and a switch to hammerless "clean climbing", which was later adopted.
rock_climbing: It is an advanced and a dangerous technique.
rock_climbing: Quiller Publishing.
rock_climbing: Artificial walls include novel features such as volume holds and sloper holds, which indoor route setters use to challenge climbers in very specific and unusual ways.
rock_climbing: He felt this is a particular concern in bouldering where using knee pads and whether the climb was commenced as a full sit start (and from what point), can affect the technical difficulty of the climb, and needed to be recorded alongside the ascent of the route.
rock_climbing: Finally, aid climbing uses unique equipment to assist the climber in their upward movement (e.g.
rock_climbing: If the 'lead climber' falls, the 'belayer' will immediately lock the rope using their belay device, and the 'lead climber' will fall twice the distance that they are above their last piece of climbing protection.
rock_climbing: a jump or lunge) to reach the next micro-crimps.
rock_climbing: Modern indoor climbing walls and gyms include artificial versions of almost every type of obstacle and climbing hold encountered in the natural environment.
rock_climbing: 'Crimping' means holding the fingers in a tight line to hold onto the smallest holds, while 'edging' involves a similar process but with the "edges" of the climbing shoe.
rock_climbing: Bouldering started in Fontainebleau, and was pioneered by Pierre Allain in the 1930s, and John Gill in the 1950s.
rock_climbing: theCrag, Europe's largest online rock climbing route database
MountainProject, North America's largest online rock and ice climbing route database
New Rock Climbers: Your First Steps to Climbing Outside, British Mountaineering Council (2024)
rock_climbing: ISBN 978-1-59485-862-8.
rock_climbing: such as world record and women's record times).
rock_climbing: If the climber falls, the belayer locks the rope and the climber just hangs from the rope at the point of the fall.
rock_climbing: The creation of the ICCC and the IFSC also led to the creation of numerous country-level competition climbing associations, some of which are sub-organizations of longer-standing "representative bodies" (e.g.
rock_climbing: This involves short routes of up to circa 5 metres (16 ft) in height that require no climbing protection outside of bouldering mats placed on the ground to break any falls.
rock_climbing: The problems tend to be technically harder than in competition lead climbing and involve very dynamic moves.
rock_climbing: The most recent equipment debate concerned the use of knee pads which enable the climber to use the 'knee-bar' technique to take rests on the climb.
rock_climbing: jamming, crimping, and smearing).
rock_climbing: The awareness of mental health benefits from rock climbing has led to the emergence of "therapeutic climbing" (TC), particularly indoor bouldering because of its relative ease and safety for beginners.
rock_climbing: Rock climbing is a largely self-governing sport principally relying on social sanctioning but where individual country-level associations can act as "representative bodies" for the sport some of which are formally recognized by the State (e.g.
rock_climbing: Advanced Rock Climbing: Expert Skills and Techniques.
rock_climbing: They can also feature in traversing as was dramatically shown on the crux pitch of the famous Dawn Wall route in the film, The Dawn Wall.
rock_climbing: In 2007, the International Federation of Sport Climbing (IFSC) took over the governance of the sport and its two major competitions, the annual Climbing World Cup and the biennial Climbing World Championships; it debuted as a full Olympic-medal sport in 2020:
rock_climbing: While outdoor climbing and mountaineering clubs historically played an important role in instruction, novices climbers today often start by taking lessons at indoor climbing gyms, either in bouldering or lead climbing.
rock_climbing: artificial climbing walls and campus boards), the development of competition climbing (initially dominated in the 1990s by French climbers such as François Legrand), and the arrival of the "professional" rock climber.
rock_climbing: Multi-pitch climbing.
rock_climbing: Several techniques were particularly notable for their impact on the sport — and on particular types of climbing routes — and are key for any aspiring rock climber to master.
rock_climbing: Another key concept is that of climbing protection (or 'gear' or 'rack').
rock_climbing: El Capitan, Joshua Tree or Squamish), on limestone, which is known for its detailed holds and cracks (e.g.
rock_climbing: Rock climbing is a climbing sports discipline that involves ascending routes consisting of natural rock in an outdoor environment, or on artificial resin climbing walls in a mostly indoor environment.
rock_climbing: self-rescue climbing) or because they have completed it and there is no other way down.
rock_climbing: In rock climbing, the term "style" principally refers to whether the climber used any artificial aid to help them to ascend the climbing route, which is called aid climbing, or whether they used no aid whatsoever, which is called free climbing.
rock_climbing: Routes range from a few metres to over a 1,000 metres (3,300 ft) in height, and traverses can reach 4,500 metres (14,800 ft) in length.
rock_climbing: The most dominant grading systems worldwide are the "French numerical" and "American YDS" systems for lead climbing, and the V-grade and the Font-grade for bouldering.
rock_climbing: Many of the hardest modern routes feature painful micro-crimps from which the climber must launch a small "dyno" (i.e.
rock_climbing: On very hard routes, the quickdraws are placed in advance, which is called 'pinkpointing' (see photo).
rock_climbing: Such acts have at times caused controversy (e.g.
rock_climbing: ISBN 978-1493056262.
rock_climbing: Competitors climb a series of short bouldering problems without a rope but protected by crashpads, with an emphasis on the number of problems completed, and the attempts necessary to do so.
rock_climbing: Some novices join competition climbing teams and have little engagement with the outdoor climbing and mountaineering scene.
rock_climbing: This is done in pairs but the rope runs from the belayer through a fixed anchor at the top of the route, and back down to the climber.
rock_climbing: lifting the feet above the waistline), which can be combined with 'heel hooking' (see image below), and the technique of 'rock-over' / 'rock-on' weight-transfer movements (i.e.
rock_climbing: Rock climbers' extensive use of chalk has come under scrutiny, both for concerns around its mining, and its potential toxicity and unsightly bright white color.
rock_climbing: For example, Silence is graded 9c (French), 5.15d (American), and XII+ (UIAA).
rock_climbing: A 2025 systematic review reported that indoor bouldering combined with mindfulness exercises may be an effective, safe, and sustainable adjunctive intervention for adults with moderate depression, although superiority over other established treatments could not be demonstrated.
rock_climbing: 'Smearing' involves using the rubber grip of the climbing shoes to gain purchase on a featureless rock face with no edges or holds to step on.
rock_climbing: Palming is also often used when 'bridging' and 'chimneying' where the hands are pushing against the rock surfaces.
rock_climbing: Climbers will try to ascend a route onsight, however, a climber can spend years projecting a route before they make a redpoint ascent.
rock_climbing: Rock Climbing: From Toproping to Sport Climbing (illustrated ed.).
rock_climbing: For women: 9b+ (5.15c), the first and only being Brooke Raboutou in 2025 on Excalibur.
rock_climbing: Some of the earliest rock climbs were smooth off-vertical 'slab climbs' where balance and shoe grip (or 'smearing') were key; famous modern examples include Indian Face in the UK.
rock_climbing: 6b, 6c, 7a, 7b, 7c, ...), and the American system (e.g.
rock_climbing: It is common, particularly at higher grades, for free climbers to describe the hardest (or crux) moves in terms of their bouldering grades.
rock_climbing: Dynos are a major feature of competition bouldering.
rock_climbing: A key concept in many types of rock climbing is that of the 'lead climbing pair'.
rock_climbing: Knee-bars created a revolution in climbing as they enabled climbers to gain crucial rests for their arms during the climb; its use with artificial knee pads was initially controversial due to concerns of aid but is now generally accepted.
rock_climbing: Ascending corners naturally leads to the related technique of 'bridging' (also called 'stemming'), which involves spreading the legs to gain traction on the opposing walls of the corner.
rock_climbing: Famous routes have been created on almost every climbable rock type, and particularly so on granite, which is noted for its grip and large cracks (e.g.
rock_climbing: The MoonBoard climbing wall has a 'grid' of 200 climbing holds that can be climbed in over 50,000 sequences, with sequences created and graded by an online community.
rock_climbing: This is a solo-climbing variant of top roping where the climber uses a progress capture device (PCD) that automatically locks the rope if the climber falls (like a belayer).
rock_climbing: If this piece of climbing protection fails — a major risk of traditional climbing — and rips away from the rock, they will keep falling until their next piece of protection holds the rope (a zipper fall is where several pieces fail).
rock_climbing: Competition speed climbing.
rock_climbing: In the history of rock climbing, the three main sub-disciplines — bouldering, single-pitch climbing, and big wall climbing — trace their origins to late 19th-century Europe.
rock_climbing: King Lines, a 2007 documentary film about Chris Sharma, featuring his free solo climb of the DWS route, Es Pontàs 9a+ (5.15a), in Mallorca.
rock_climbing: On some routes, the opportunities for placing protection are poor so that the 'lead climber' is forced to leave large gaps between protection points — called a runout — so that any fall will be large (called a whipper).
rock_climbing: Competitors start at the bottom of a pre-bolted artificial sport-climbing route and lead-climb to touch or secure the highest climbing hold possible within a set time limit on a single attempt, making sure to clip the rope into pre-placed quickdraws while ascending; they are belayed by an official.
rock_climbing: The advent of specialist rubber-soled climbing shoes dramatically increased the surfaces that climbers could "smear" on.
rock_climbing: Laybacking and bridging enabled rock climbers to ascend dramatic new types of specialist climbing routes that typically combined the corners and cracks needed for these techniques to work.
rock_climbing: This led to an explosion in indoor climbing that was further amplified by the rise of bolted sport climbing and of bouldering, which are also suited to indoor climbing.
rock_climbing: The first ascensionist can suggest a grade, but it will be amended to reflect the consensus view of subsequent ascents, and recorded in online databased or physical guidebooks.
rock_climbing: Lead climbing is used in single-pitch and multi-pitch climbing, and for multi-pitch routes, the team can alternate the roles.
rock_climbing: There are many types of temporary protection including passive (e.g.
rock_climbing: Sport climbing.
rock_climbing: Top rope climbing is a popular way for beginners to start rock climbing, and to build up their strength and confidence to lead climb.
rock_climbing: Hueco Tanks), on gneiss (e.g.
rock_climbing: Notable examples include Sonnie Trotter's "greenpoint" of The Path at Lake Louise.
rock_climbing: A 2023 review in the academic journal PM&R reported positive effects of TC in various patient groups and concluded that it is a safe and effective approach for improving physical, mental, and social well-being.
rock_climbing: The 'lead climber' clips their rope into these bolts using quickdraws as they ascend.
rock_climbing: Dreamtime or Midnight Lightning) but any short route can be called "bouldering" (e.g.
rock_climbing: In 2024, the IFSC introduced its first explicit policy guidelines to try and combat the issue of eating disorders in competition climbing.
rock_climbing: Rock climbing routes at high-altitude, such as on big wall routes like Eternal Flame on the Trango Towers, present additional physical challenges.
rock_climbing: In 2016, the IOC announced competition climbing would be a medal event in the 2020 Summer Olympics.
rock_climbing: Jamming brought free climbing to the world of 'crack climbing', and rock climbers developed the technique for almost every body part, including the "body jam" (i.e.
rock_climbing: This requires the technique of abseiling (or rappelling in North America), where climbers use abseil devices to move down a fixed rope that has been anchored to a point at the top of the route.
rock_climbing: Tri Cime), on monzonite (e.g., The Buttermilks), and on quartzite (e.g.
rock_climbing: Where a 'lead climber' climbs alone but with protection; the 'belayer' is replaced with a progress capture device (PCD) that locks the rope — in the manner of a 'belayer' — in any fall.
rock_climbing: One/two-finger pockets (also called Huecos or mono-holds) are typically found on the detailed surface of limestone routes, one of the most famous being the 'dyno' to a small two-finger pocket on the historic sport climbing route, Action Directe.
rock_climbing: Climbing routes in rock climbing are given a grade that reflects the technical difficulty—and in some cases the risks and commitment level—of the route.
rock_climbing: The Mountaineers.
rock_climbing: El Capitan), limestone (e.g.
rock_climbing: Sport climbing adds ropes, harnesses, belay devices, and quickdraws to clip into pre-drilled bolts.
rock_climbing: If they fell, and the 'belayer' held the rope fast — which they would have to do manually by looping the rope around their waist — the 'lead climber' would hang from the rope if it had stayed looped around a spike of rock — if it didn't, they fell to the ground.
rock_climbing: For example, the famous neighbouring El Capitan routes of The Nose and Freerider both require big wall climbing techniques as they are over 1,000 metres (3,300 ft) high.
rock_climbing: Fred Rouhling's Akira and Hugh), but at other times has not (e.g.
rock_climbing: Sport climbing developed in the 1980s when French climbers wanted to climb "blank" rock faces that had no cracks into which to insert the temporary protection used in traditional climbing and they called it 'sport climbing' as it was much safer.
rock_climbing: Early 20th-century rock climbers relied on the 'lead climber' looping the rope around natural spikes of rock as they ascended.
rock_climbing: One of the most notable exponents of the 'smearing' technique is Welch climber Johnny Dawes who used smearing it to create some of the hardest traditional slab climbs in the world such as the Indian Face and The Quarryman.
rock_climbing: Climbing ethics initially focused on "fair means" and the transition from aid climbing to free climbing and latterly to clean climbing; the use of bolted protection on outdoor routes is a source of ongoing debate in climbing.
rock_climbing: As it uses no artificial aid or climbing protection, bouldering has remained consistent since its origins.
rock_climbing: such as ascenders), or for moving down a fixed static rope (e.g.
rock_climbing: Guidebooks and databases record the local consensus view on the level of difficulty of the routes, however, where this is materially lower than the actual difficulty of the routes, it is termed sandbagging.
rock_climbing: Reel Rock 7, the 2012 edition of the Reel Rock series with Chris Sharma and Adam Ondra's collaboration on La Dura Dura 9b+ (5.15c).
rock_climbing: such as descenders or abseil devices).
rock_climbing: Free-climbing can be done as free solo climbing with no protection whatsoever, or as lead climbing with removable temporary protection (called traditional climbing), or permanently fixed bolted protection (called sport climbing).
rock_climbing: The history of rock climbing is closely related to the evolution of grade milestones which have consistently risen as a result of ever-improving climbing techniques and equipment.
rock_climbing: Where both of the 'lead climbing pair' move together and dispense with the traditional set-up of a 'lead climber' doing the climbing while the 'belayer' stays in one place to control the rope.
rock_climbing: As climbers tried harder and harder routes, the holds became smaller and smaller, until they were barely large enough to accommodate the tips of fingers or the smallest part of a toe.
rock_climbing: How to Rock Climb (6th ed.).
rock_climbing: This protection can be removable (which is known as traditional climbing), or permanently fixed into the rock (which is known as sport climbing).
rock_climbing: In 1913, German climber Rudolf Fehrmann published the second edition of Der Bergsteiger in der Sächsischen Schweiz (or The Climber in Saxon Switzerland), which included the first binding rules for climbing in the area to protect the soft sandstone rock.
rock_climbing: Competitors race-off in pairs on a standardized 'speed climbing wall' using a top rope with an auto belay for protection, in the shortest time possible.
rock_climbing: In 2021, Czech climber Adam Ondra wrote that knee pads are no different to the introduction of rubber shoes or climbing chalk and that the changes in the grade are unfortunate from a historical perspective but they are inevitable.
rock_climbing: The following broad distinctions are made in rock climbing types, which have been split into whether the climber is free climbing.
rock_climbing: Competition bouldering.
rock_climbing: Dinorwic quarry), on dolorite (e.g.
rock_climbing: Good climbing technique emphasizes the use of the legs to hold body weight and to gain upward momentum, which includes the technique of 'high-stepping' (i.e.
rock_climbing: Where the climber had never seen the route beforehand but had been given beta on it, it is called a flash.
rock_climbing: Temporary protection is used in traditional climbing and splits into active devices (mainly spring-loaded camming devices or SLCDs or 'friends'), and passive devices (mainly nuts and hexes).
rock_climbing: Statement of Youth, a 2019 documentary film about the birth of sport climbing in Britain in the 1980s featuring Jerry Moffatt and Ben Moon.
rock_climbing: I reckon just linking 8C [French boulder] into 8B [French boulder] into 7C [French boulder] is a 9b+ [French] sport climb, I'm pretty sure about that".
rock_climbing: The individual moves needed to complete a given rock climbing route are called the beta, and popular rock climbing routes have detailed step-by-step video guides of their beta available online, and which has led to legal disputes over the ownership of the beta between online databases.
rock_climbing: Stanage Edge), on slate (e.g.
rock_climbing: In 2023, one of the most high-profile competition climbers, Janja Garnbret, called it a long-standing "cultural problem".
rock_climbing: Multi-pitch climbing, and the related big wall climbing, adds devices to assist in ascending and descending fixed ropes.
rock_climbing: Valley Uprising, a 2014 Amazon Prime documentary film about rock climbing in Yosemite, that includes big wall climbing.
rock_climbing: The higher the route, the greater the danger and the greater range of techniques and equipment needed, however, the technical difficulty of a route is not correlated to its height.
rock_climbing: Modern indoor walls can have their routes graded for technical difficulty in the same manner as outdoor natural routes.
rock_climbing: Bouldering.
rock_climbing: Some traditional climbers began to "greenpoint" established sport climbing routes by chopping their in-situ bolts and re-climbing using traditional protection.
rock_climbing: Devices are available for controlling the movement of a dynamic climbing rope (e.g.
rock_climbing: As the speed climbing wall is standardized, time records are chronicled (e.g.
rock_climbing: Climbers also differentiate routes by challenges encountered and the techniques required to overcome them.
rock_climbing: Artificial indoor climbing walls are popular and competition climbing — which takes place on artificial walls — became an Olympic sport in 2020.
rock_climbing: Donahue, Topher (December 2016).
rock_climbing: The Dawn Wall, a 2017 Netflix documentary film about Tommy Caldwell and Kevin Jorgeson's ascent of the first-ever big wall route at 5.14d (9a).
rock_climbing: In some cases, the use of such 'knee-bars' (facilitated by knee pads) has reduced the technical grade or difficulty of a route (e.g.
rock_climbing: With the development of the safer form of sport climbing in the 1980s, lead climbing competitions on bolted artificial climbing walls became popular.
rock_climbing: Finally, while rock climbing mostly involves ascending a route, climbers sometimes need to be able to descend a route — either in retreat (e.g.
rock_climbing: These routes are many pitches in length and require more complicated techniques to ascend safely, particularly the use of belay anchors, hanging belays and jumaring.
rock_climbing: famous routes such as Antoine Le Menestrel's La Rose et la Vampire, Jean-Baptiste Tribout's Superplafond, and Ray Jardine's The Phoenix).
rock_climbing: This involves climbing in pairs with a 'lead climber', who does the climbing, and a 'belayer' (or 'second'), who holds the rope.
rock_climbing: Artificial walls have been created that have been estimated to be at or above the hardest technical grades climbed in the outdoor natural environment.
rock_climbing: It is an advanced technique and difficult to master, and which carries significantly greater risk as PCDs can fail to lock, and it requires much greater energy as the climber needs to ascend every pitch twice.
rock_climbing: Hardest free solo for men: 8c (5.14b), the first and only being Alfredo Webber in 2021 on Panem et Circenses.
rock_climbing: Single-pitch climbing stopped using artificial aid in the early 20th century, led by Paul Preuss, and later by Kurt Albert, in so-called "free climbing", however, it would not be until the late 1960s and early 1970s that Robbins and Yvon Chouinard would bring free-climbing to big-walls.
rock_climbing: they provided no aid in ascending), were needed for single-pitch and big-wall free climbing, and they were inserted into the route while the climber was ascending, which came to be called "traditional climbing".
rock_climbing: Even the 2024 Olympic artificial climbing walls were graded with the women's walls at up to 5.14c (8c+) for lead and V12 (8A+) for bouldering, and the men's walls at up to 5.14d (9a) for lead and V14 (8B+) for bouldering.
rock_climbing: This involves placing — or "jamming" — the climber's body parts into cracks in the rock which they then pull on to gain upward momentum.
rock_climbing: Popular rock types are granite (e.g.
rock_climbing: Climbers then acquired the techniques to ascend near-vertical 'crack climbs' by 'laybacking', 'bridging', and 'jamming'; famous examples include Super Crack, The Phoenix and Grand Illusion (all in the US).
rock_climbing: The debate also extends to the issue of retro-bolting traditional-climbing routes by installing fixed bolts to make them into safer sport-climbing routes, but which then alters the challenge of the route.
rock_climbing: One of the most important revolutions in rock climbing technique was the development of 'jamming'.
rock_climbing: Climbers have spent as many years trying to ascend 4-metre (13 ft) routes such as Burden of Dreams, as they have on 1,000-metre (3,300 ft) routes like The Nose.
rock_climbing: For example, bouldering needs the least equipment outside of climbing shoes, climbing chalk, and optional crash pads.
rock_climbing: Research has also reported potential mental health benefits, such as enhanced memory and problem-solving, reduced symptoms of depression, improved communication and social integration skills, and increased self-confidence.
rock_climbing: Modern aid climbing is typically used on big-wall and on alpine-climbing routes where the level of difficulty is not uniform, and a given pitch might require aid techniques to overcome its challenges.
rock_climbing: Crimping is associated with the development of training tools such as the hangboard that increase the tendon strength needed for crimping; however, it is also a source of tendon injury.
rock_climbing: Saxon Switzerland) but 43 types of climbable rock types have been identified.
rock_climbing: transferring the weight to the higher leg but without explicitly pulling up on the arms).
rock_climbing: In 2021, German climber Alexander Megos expanded that "style" in rock climbing should include a detailed understanding of the conditions in which an ascent was made, saying "It seems like the climbing community is not differentiating at all and rarely mentioning HOW things are climbed".
rock_climbing: Fair Head), on iron rock (e.g.
rock_climbing: For free climbing — in both traditional and sport climbing formats — the most dominant worldwide grading systems are the French system (e.g.
rock_climbing: A notable example is in Hueco Tanks, one of the most important bouldering locations in the world (and where the V-grading system was invented), where climbing is controlled and limited by park rangers to avoid damage to important cultural sites.
rock_climbing: One of the key elements in the development of standards and grade milestones has come from novel training tools starting with the bachar ladder, and the hangboard, which evolved into plyometric training tools such as the campus board, and the MoonBoard.
rock_climbing: Traditional climbing adds the need to carry a "rack" of temporary passive and active protection devices.
rock_climbing: As most competition climbing events are held on indoor walls, many contemporary climbers have spent their careers training and competing on artificial indoor walls.
rock_climbing: Free solo climbing came to worldwide attention when in 2017, Alex Honnold free soloed the famous big wall climbing route, Freerider on El Capitan, as featured in the 2018 Oscar-winning film, Free Solo.
rock_climbing: Hardest free solo for men: 7c+ (5.13a), the first and only being Alex Honnold in 2017 on Freerider.
rock_climbing: Traditional climbing.
rock_climbing: the crux of Hubble).
rock_climbing: The development of route setters in competition climbing, who can artificially fine-tune a route to require the accurate use of specific techniques, has further increased the range of techniques that contemporary rock climbers need to master.
rock_climbing: Pioneers such as Wolfgang Güllich, Jerry Moffatt, Alexander Huber, Fred Nicole, Chris Sharma, Adam Ondra, and Tommy Caldwell set records in several of these disciplines.
rock_climbing: Indian Creek, Saxon Switzerland, Rocklands, and Fontainebleau).
rock_climbing: For example, Dreamtime is graded 8C (on the Font-grade) and V15 (on the V-grade).
rock_climbing: Above the lowest bouldering grades, the two systems can be exactly aligned at each level, and are often both quoted.
rock_climbing: One member — the 'lead climber' — will try to climb the route and overcome its challenges with a rope attached to their harness.
rock_climbing: Fixed protection devices are used in sport and aid climbing, and are mainly bolts and pitons.
rock_climbing: Simil climbing is used to move quickly on long but easy multi-pitch routes, and for setting speed climbing records on big-wall routes.
rock_climbing: Notable examples include the crux of the sport climbing route, La Dura Dura, and the crux of the bouldering problem, Burden of Dreams.
rock_climbing: V5, V6, V7, V8, V9, ...).
rock_climbing: USA Climbing).
rock_climbing: Verdon Gorge), and sandstone (e.g.
rock_climbing: In theory, any fall should be less serious as the climber will land in the water, fatalities have happened.
rock_climbing: Hardest lead traditional climbing redpoint:
For men: 9a (5.14d), the first being Jacopo Larcher in 2019 on Tribe.
rock_climbing: An interesting development in modern rock climbing is that the highest female grade milestones are only one or two levels below the highest male grade milestones in all climbing types, a situation that some scientists have attributed to an evolutionary origin.
rock_climbing: The equipment used in rock climbing can be grouped into the following categories:
rock_climbing: They can be ascended using aid climbing (on either all or just on the hardest pitches of the route) or can be fully free climbed (The Nose is much harder and only rarely free climbed).
rock_climbing: This is climbing with no climbing protection; thus, any fall will be serious and even fatal.
rock_climbing: The pair are connected by the climbing rope and the belayer uses belay devices to control the rope.
rock_climbing: A further distinction is made for very sheer routes over 300–500 metres (980–1,640 ft) in length where the climber(s) are continually "hanging" from the face, which is called big wall climbing and includes some of rock climbing's most notable routes such as The Nose.
rock_climbing: Top rope climbing.
rock_climbing: they keep each other in place by their opposing force), and is a regular requirement in competition lead climbing.
rock_climbing: ISBN 978-1493016396.
rock_climbing: The safer format of sport climbing led to a dramatic increase in climbing standards, technical grades, and training tools (e.g.
rock_climbing: Aiders and daisy chains act like ladders for the aid climber.
rock_climbing: However, climbing areas have been identified on over 43 climbable rock types including on gritstone (e.g.
rock_climbing: For women: 8c+ (5.14c), the first and only being Laura Rogora in 2025 on Ultimate Sacrifice (onsight).
rock_climbing: The technique allows the belayer to give the climber aid by holding some or all of their weight while they climb, and is thus not strictly free-climbing.
rock_climbing: Linked to 'back-stepping' is the use of the free leg as a counter-balance to avoid the climber swinging away from the rock, and to support other movements, which is called 'flagging'.
rock_climbing: Climbing routes can range from just a few metres in height to over 1,000 metres (3,300 ft).
rock_climbing: Rock climbing has been restricted and even prohibited in areas due to concerns about its impact on sensitive breeding wildlife grounds and delicate fauna, and incidences of damage or vandalism to the physical rock and cultural sites.
rock_climbing: Early rock climbers began to distinguish themselves from general mountaineering scrambling techniques by executing a 'layback' (see image) which involves using the legs and arms in opposing forces to ascend cracks in corners or dihedrals.
rock_climbing: The wide range of types of rock climbing has helped more people access the sport in the way that best suits them.
rock_climbing: Simul climbing.
rock_climbing: The 'heel-toe cam' is where a 'heel hook' and a 'toe hook' are used simultaneously to act like a 'jamming' technique (i.e.
rock_climbing: 6B, 6C, 7A, 7B, 7C, ...), and the American V-grade system (e.g.
rock_climbing: For single-pitch climbing:
Hardest lead sport climbing redpoint:
For men: 9c (5.15d), the first being Adam Ondra in 2017 on Silence.
rock_climbing: Falcon Guides.
rock_climbing: Rope devices.
rock_climbing: In 1993, Hill made the first free ascent of The Nose on El Capitan, one of the most sought-after big wall climbing prizes that had resisted all prior attempts.
rock_climbing: Some additional studies have suggested that TC may even be comparable in effectiveness to cognitive behavioral therapy for treating depression.
rock_climbing: By the end of the 20th century, the hardest sport climbs were often combinations of 'bouldering moves', and some of the best challenges lay in free climbing extreme big walls; this led to greater cross-over amongst the three sub-disciplines.
rock_climbing: The Alpinist, a 2021 documentary film about the late Canadian alpinist Marc-André Leclerc, featuring his solo ascent of Torre Egger in Patagonia.
