rocky_mountains: North America's largest herds of elk are in the Alberta–British Columbia foothills forests.
rocky_mountains: Prairie occurs at or below 550 metres (1,800 ft), while the highest peak in the range is Mount Elbert at 4,400 metres (14,440 ft).
rocky_mountains: Other recovering species include the bald eagle and the peregrine falcon.
rocky_mountains: Hamp, Sidford F.
rocky_mountains: The mountains eroded throughout the late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic, leaving extensive deposits of sedimentary rock.
rocky_mountains: The western edge of the Rockies includes ranges such as the Wasatch near Salt Lake City, the San Juan Mountains of New Mexico and Colorado, the Bitterroots along the Idaho-Montana border, and the Sawtooths in central Idaho.
rocky_mountains: Every year the scenic areas of the Rocky Mountains draw millions of tourists.
rocky_mountains: A growing body of scientific evidence indicates that indigenous people had significant effects on mammal populations by hunting and on vegetation patterns through deliberate burning.
rocky_mountains: They are divided into three main groups: the Muskwa Ranges, Hart Ranges (collectively called the Northern Rockies) and Continental Ranges.
rocky_mountains: Agriculture includes dryland and irrigated farming and livestock grazing.
rocky_mountains: The range's highest peak is Mount Elbert in Colorado at 4,401 metres (14,440 feet) above sea level.
rocky_mountains: Two zones that do not support trees are the Plains and the Alpine tundra.
rocky_mountains: Tents and camps became ranches and farms, forts and train stations became towns, and some towns became cities.
rocky_mountains: The more famous of these include William Henry Ashley, Jim Bridger, Kit Carson, John Colter, Thomas Fitzpatrick, Andrew Henry, and Jedediah Smith.
rocky_mountains: Some researchers have proposed that aspects of Rocky Mountain uplift and deformation are better explained by a “hit-and-run” tectonic collision model, in which oblique and transient plate interactions distributed deformation far inland, rather than through long-lived shallow-angle subduction alone.
rocky_mountains: The Rocky Mountains contain the highest peaks in central North America.
rocky_mountains: The current Rocky Mountains arose in the Laramide orogeny from between 80 million and 55 million years ago.
rocky_mountains: Abandoned mines with their wakes of mine tailings and toxic wastes dot the Rocky Mountain landscape.
rocky_mountains: These posts served as bases for most European activity in the Canadian Rockies in the early 19th century.
rocky_mountains: Just after the Laramide orogeny, the Rockies were like Tibet: a high plateau, probably 6,000 m (20,000 ft) above sea level.
rocky_mountains: It was not until 80 million years ago that these effects began reaching the Rockies.
rocky_mountains: Terranes began colliding with the western edge of North America in the Mississippian (approximately 350 million years ago), causing the Antler orogeny.
rocky_mountains: Greenwood Press.
rocky_mountains: Baron, Jill (2002).
rocky_mountains: However, the human population grew rapidly in the Rocky Mountain states between 1950 and 1990.
rocky_mountains: Coalbed methane supplies 7 percent of the natural gas used in the U.S.
rocky_mountains: ISBN 1-55963-953-9.
rocky_mountains: In 1739, French fur traders Pierre and Paul Mallet, while journeying through the Great Plains, discovered a range of mountains at the headwaters of the Platte River, which local American Indian tribes called the "Rockies", becoming the first Europeans to report on this uncharted mountain range.
rocky_mountains: At the end of the last ice age, humans began inhabiting the mountain range.
rocky_mountains: While settlers filled the valleys and mining towns, conservation and preservation ethics began to take hold.
rocky_mountains: Most of the highest summits of the Rocky Mountains are in Colorado, with the state having an average elevation of 6,800 feet (2,100 m).
rocky_mountains: Each zone is defined by whether it can support trees and the presence of one or more indicator species.
rocky_mountains: Economic resources of the Rocky Mountains are varied and abundant.
rocky_mountains: Livestock are frequently moved between high-elevation summer pastures and low-elevation winter pastures, a practice known as transhumance.
rocky_mountains: In 1983, the former owner of the zinc mine was sued by the Colorado Attorney General for the $4.8 million cleanup costs; five years later, ecological recovery was considerable.
rocky_mountains: Meanwhile, a transcontinental railroad in Canada was originally promised in 1871.
rocky_mountains: The Lewis and Clark Expedition (1804–1806) was the first scientific reconnaissance of the Rocky Mountains.
rocky_mountains: Recent glacial episodes included the Bull Lake Glaciation, which began about 150,000 years ago, and the Pinedale Glaciation, which perhaps remained at full glaciation until 15,000–20,000 years ago.
rocky_mountains: portion of the mountain range, apex predators such as grizzly bears and wolf packs had been extirpated from their original ranges, but have partially recovered due to conservation measures and reintroduction.
rocky_mountains: Geological Survey defines ten forested zones in the Rockies.
rocky_mountains: Canada's largest coal mines are near Fernie, British Columbia and Sparwood, British Columbia; additional coal mines exist near Hinton, Alberta, and in the Northern Rockies surrounding Tumbler Ridge, British Columbia.
rocky_mountains: The Coeur d'Alene mine of northern Idaho produces silver, lead, and zinc.
rocky_mountains: Newby, Rick (2004).
rocky_mountains: On his 1811 expedition, he camped at the junction of the Columbia River and the Snake River and erected a pole and notice claiming the area for the United Kingdom and stating the intention of the North West Company to build a fort at the site.
rocky_mountains: Coalbed methane is natural gas that arises from coal, either through bacterial action or through exposure to high temperature.
rocky_mountains: This low angle moved the focus of melting and mountain building much farther inland than the normal 300 to 500 km (200 to 300 mi).
rocky_mountains: In the last 60 million years, erosion stripped away the high rocks, revealing the ancestral rocks beneath, and forming the current landscape of the Rockies.
rocky_mountains: These ice ages left their mark on the Rockies, forming extensive glacial landforms, such as U-shaped valleys and cirques.
rocky_mountains: In 1905, U.S.
rocky_mountains: The Wyoming Basin and several smaller areas contain significant reserves of coal, natural gas, oil shale, and petroleum.
rocky_mountains: The current southern Rockies were forced upwards through the layers of Pennsylvanian and Permian sedimentary remnants of the Ancestral Rocky Mountains.
rocky_mountains: Specimens were collected for contemporary botanists, zoologists, and geologists.
rocky_mountains: By the Anglo-American Convention of 1818, which established the 49th parallel north as the international boundary west from Lake of the Woods to the "Stony Mountains", the UK and the US agreed to what has since been described as "joint occupancy" of lands further west to the Pacific Ocean.
rocky_mountains: For the Canadian Rockies, the mountain building is analogous to pushing a rug on a hardwood floor: the rug bunches up and forms wrinkles (mountains).
rocky_mountains: For example, volcanic rock from the Paleogene and Neogene periods (66 million – 2.6 million years ago) occurs in the San Juan Mountains and in other areas.
rocky_mountains: Paleo-Indians hunted the now-extinct mammoth and ancient bison (an animal 20% larger than modern bison) in the foothills and valleys of the mountains.
rocky_mountains: Negotiations between the United Kingdom and the United States over the next few decades failed to settle upon a compromise boundary and the Oregon Dispute became important in geopolitical diplomacy between the British Empire and the new American Republic.
rocky_mountains: These two basins are estimated to contain 38 trillion cubic feet of gas.
rocky_mountains: During the Paleozoic, western North America lay underneath a shallow sea, which deposited many kilometers of limestone and dolomite.
rocky_mountains: (1899), The treasure of Mushroom Rock: A story of prospecting in the Rocky Mountains, United States: G.
rocky_mountains: In 1610, the Spanish founded the city of Santa Fe, the oldest continuous seat of government in the United States, at the foot of the Rockies in present-day New Mexico.
rocky_mountains: Coalbed methane can be recovered by dewatering the coal bed, and separating the gas from the water; or injecting water to fracture the coal to release the gas (so-called hydraulic fracturing).
rocky_mountains: He found the upper reaches of the Fraser River and reached the Pacific coast of what is now Canada on July 20 of that year, completing the first recorded transcontinental crossing of North America north of Mexico.
rocky_mountains: Farther north in Alberta, the Athabasca and other rivers feed the basin of the Mackenzie River, which has its outlet on the Beaufort Sea of the Arctic Ocean.
rocky_mountains: Examples of some species that have declined include western toads, greenback cutthroat trout, white sturgeon, white-tailed ptarmigan, trumpeter swan, and bighorn sheep.
rocky_mountains: Public parks and forest lands protect much of the mountain range, and they are popular tourist destinations, especially for hiking, camping, mountaineering, fishing, hunting, mountain biking, snowmobiling, skiing, and snowboarding.
rocky_mountains: Scientists hypothesize that the shallow angle of the subducting plate increased the friction and other interactions with the thick continental mass above it.
rocky_mountains: The forty-year statewide increases in population range from 35% in Montana to about 150% in Utah and Colorado.
rocky_mountains: The fur-trading North West Company established Rocky Mountain House as a trading post in what is now the Rocky Mountain Foothills of present-day Alberta in 1799, and their business rivals the Hudson's Bay Company established Acton House nearby.
rocky_mountains: In more northern, colder, or wetter areas, zones are defined by Douglas firs, Cascadian species (such as western hemlock), lodgepole pines/quaking aspens, or firs mixed with spruce.
rocky_mountains: In Canada, the western edge of the Rockies is formed by the huge Rocky Mountain Trench, which runs the length of British Columbia from its beginning as the Kechika Valley on the south bank of the Liard River, to the middle Lake Koocanusa valley in northwestern Montana.
rocky_mountains: Such sedimentary remnants were often tilted at steep angles along the flanks of the modern range; they are now visible in many places throughout the Rockies, and are shown along the Dakota Hogback, an early Cretaceous sandstone formation running along the eastern flank of the modern Rockies.
rocky_mountains: The Rocky Mountain region.
rocky_mountains: Further south, an unusual subduction may have caused the growth of the Rocky Mountains in the United States, where the Farallon Plate dove at a shallow angle below the North American Plate.
rocky_mountains: Sir Alexander Mackenzie (1764 – March 11, 1820) became the first European to cross the Rocky Mountains in 1793.
rocky_mountains: In the summer season, examples of tourist attractions are:
In the United States:
rocky_mountains: Economic development began to center on mining, forestry, agriculture, and recreation, as well as on the service industries that support them.
rocky_mountains: The Tetons and other north-central ranges contain folded and faulted rocks of Paleozoic and Mesozoic age draped above cores of Proterozoic and Archean igneous and metamorphic rocks ranging in age from 1.2 billion (e.g., Tetons) to more than 3.3 billion years (Beartooth Mountains).
rocky_mountains: Being the easternmost portion of the North American Cordillera, the Rockies are distinct from the tectonically younger Cascade Range and Sierra Nevada, which both lie farther to its west.
rocky_mountains: In Colorado, along with the crest of the Continental Divide, rock walls that Native Americans built for driving game date back 5,400–5,800 years.
rocky_mountains: Island Press.
rocky_mountains: This mountain-building produced the Ancestral Rocky Mountains.
rocky_mountains: The populations of several mountain towns and communities have doubled in the forty years 1972–2012.
rocky_mountains: Precipitation ranges from 250 millimetres (10 in) per year in the southern valleys to 1,500 millimetres (60 in) per year locally in the northern peaks.
rocky_mountains: Therefore, there is no single monolithic ecosystem for the entire Rocky Mountain Range.
rocky_mountains: Among the most notable are the expeditions of David Thompson, who followed the Columbia River to the Pacific Ocean.
rocky_mountains: Agriculture and forestry are major industries.
rocky_mountains: Rocky Mountain futures: an ecological perspective.
rocky_mountains: Molybdenum is used in heat-resistant steel in such things as cars and planes.
rocky_mountains: Canadian railway officials also convinced Parliament to set aside vast areas of the Canadian Rockies as Jasper, Banff, Yoho, and Waterton Lakes National Parks, laying the foundation for a tourism industry which thrives to this day.
rocky_mountains: High concentrations of the metal carried by spring runoff harmed algae, moss, and trout populations.
rocky_mountains: In Canada, the terranes and subduction are the foot pushing the rug, the ancestral rocks are the rug, and the Canadian Shield in the middle of the continent is the hardwood floor.
rocky_mountains: The analysis also revealed that cleanup of the river could yield $2.3 million in additional revenue from recreation.
rocky_mountains: There are other concerns as well, including bugs, wildfires, adverse snow conditions and nighttime cold temperatures.
rocky_mountains: In 1819, Spain ceded their rights north of the 42nd Parallel to the United States, though these rights did not include possession and also included obligations to Britain and Russia concerning their claims in the same region.
rocky_mountains: They consisted largely of Precambrian metamorphic rock forced upward through layers of the limestone laid down in the shallow sea.
rocky_mountains: Like the modern tribes that followed them, Paleo-Indians probably migrated to the plains in fall and winter for bison and to the mountains in spring and summer for fish, deer, elk, roots, and berries.
rocky_mountains: The Rocky Mountains contain several sedimentary basins that are rich in coalbed methane.
rocky_mountains: The Continental Divide of the Americas is in the Rocky Mountains and designates the line at which waters flow either to the Atlantic or Pacific Oceans.
rocky_mountains: From 1859 to 1864, gold was discovered in Colorado, Idaho, Montana, and British Columbia, sparking several gold rushes bringing thousands of prospectors and miners to explore every mountain and canyon and to create the Rocky Mountains' first major industry.
rocky_mountains: The expedition was said to have paved the way to (and through) the Rocky Mountains for European-Americans from the East, although Lewis and Clark met at least 11 European-American mountain men during their travels.
rocky_mountains: Other incidents include a seriously injured backpacker being airlifted near SquareTop Mountain in 2005, and a fatal hiker incident (from an apparent accidental fall) in 2006 that involved state search and rescue.
rocky_mountains: The song is one of the two official state songs of Colorado.
rocky_mountains: Native American populations were extirpated from most of their historical ranges by disease, warfare, habitat loss (eradication of the bison), and continued assaults on their culture.
rocky_mountains: The largest coalbed methane sources in the Rocky Mountains are in the San Juan Basin in New Mexico and Colorado and the Powder River Basin in Wyoming.
rocky_mountains: The status of most species in the Rocky Mountains is unknown, due to incomplete information.
rocky_mountains: In the winter, skiing and snowboarding are the main attractions, with dozens of Rocky Mountain ski areas and resorts.
rocky_mountains: The Rocky Mountains are the easternmost portion of the expansive North American Cordillera.
rocky_mountains: Tremendous thrusts piled sheets of crust on top of each other, building the broad, high Rocky Mountain range.
rocky_mountains: The Great Plains lie to the east of the Rockies and is characterized by prairie grasses (below roughly 550 m or 1,800 ft).
rocky_mountains: The Canadian Rockies are defined by Canadian geographers as everything south of the Liard River and east of the Rocky Mountain Trench, and do not extend into Yukon, Northwest Territories or central British Columbia.
rocky_mountains: ISBN 0-313-32817-X.
rocky_mountains: Finally, rivers and canyons can create a unique forest zone in more arid parts of the mountain range.
rocky_mountains: The Great Basin and Columbia River Plateau separate these subranges from distinct ranges further to the west.
rocky_mountains: President Theodore Roosevelt extended the Medicine Bow Forest Reserve to include the area now managed as Rocky Mountain National Park.
rocky_mountains: Resolution of the territorial and treaty issues, the Oregon dispute, was deferred until a later time.
rocky_mountains: Variants of this interpretation and related alternatives to traditional Cordilleran tectonic models have also been discussed in synthesis and field-based settings, including a Geological Society of America Penrose Conference held in Idaho.
rocky_mountains: The Climax mine employed over 3,000 workers.
rocky_mountains: Since the last great ice age, the Rocky Mountains were home first to indigenous peoples including the Apache, Arapaho, Bannock, Blackfoot, Cheyenne, Coeur d'Alene, Kalispel, Crow Nation, Flathead, Shoshone, Sioux, Ute, Kutenai (Ktunaxa in Canada), Sekani, Dunne-za, and others.
rocky_mountains: Yellowstone National Park
Glacier National Park
Grand Teton National Park
Rocky Mountain National Park
Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve
Sawtooth National Recreation Area
Flathead Lake
In Canada, the mountain range contains these national parks:
rocky_mountains: The Rockies vary in width from 110 to 480 kilometres (70 to 300 miles).
rocky_mountains: Encountering bears or mountain lions (cougars) is a concern in the Rocky Mountains.
rocky_mountains: The greater Rocky Mountain system functions as a collective network of dozens of distinct subranges divided by high basins and wide rolling tablelands.
rocky_mountains: Triple Divide Peak (2,440 m or 8,020 ft) in Glacier National Park is so named because water falling on the mountain reaches not only the Atlantic and Pacific but Hudson Bay as well.
rocky_mountains: The Rocky Mountains are an important habitat for a great deal of well-known wildlife, such as wolves, elk, moose, mule and white-tailed deer, pronghorn, mountain goats, bighorn sheep, badgers, black bears, grizzly bears, coyotes, lynxes, cougars, and wolverines.
rocky_mountains: Forest Service does not offer updated aggregated records on the official number of fatalities in the Rocky Mountains.
rocky_mountains: Glacier National Park (MT) was established with a similar relationship to tourism promotions by the Great Northern Railway.
rocky_mountains: The Spanish explorer Francisco Vázquez de Coronado—with a group of soldiers and missionaries marched into the Rocky Mountain region from the south in 1540.
rocky_mountains: The oldest rock is Precambrian metamorphic rock that forms the core of the North American continent.
rocky_mountains: In the southern Rockies, near present-day Colorado, these ancestral rocks were disturbed by mountain building approximately 300 million years ago, during the Pennsylvanian.
rocky_mountains: President Benjamin Harrison established several forest reserves in the Rocky Mountains in 1891–1892.
rocky_mountains: The transcontinental railroad was completed in 1869, and Yellowstone National Park was established as the world's first national park in 1872.
rocky_mountains: Another name given to the place by the Cree is ᐊᓭᓂᐓᒉ Aseniwuche.
rocky_mountains: Alpine tundra occurs in regions above the tree-line for the Rocky Mountains, which varies from 3,700 m (12,000 ft) in New Mexico to 760 m (2,500 ft) at the northern end of the Rockies (near the Yukon).
rocky_mountains: Thousands passed through the Rocky Mountains on the Oregon Trail beginning in the 1840s.
rocky_mountains: Putnam's Sons.
rocky_mountains: The introduction of the horse, metal tools, rifles, new diseases, and different cultures profoundly changed the Native American cultures.
rocky_mountains: The Idaho gold rush alone produced more gold than the California and Alaska gold rushes combined and was important in the financing of the Union Army during the American Civil War.
rocky_mountains: An economic analysis of mining effects at this site revealed declining property values, degraded water quality, and the loss of recreational opportunities.
rocky_mountains: All of these geological processes exposed a complex set of rocks at the surface.
rocky_mountains: European-American settlement of the mountains has adversely impacted native species.
rocky_mountains: There is also Precambrian sedimentary argillite, dating back to 1.7 billion years ago.
rocky_mountains: Despite such efforts, in 1846, Britain ceded all claim to Columbia District lands south of the 49th parallel to the United States; as resolution to the Oregon boundary dispute by the Oregon Treaty.
rocky_mountains: Near tree-line, zones can consist of white pines (such as whitebark pine or bristlecone pine); or a mixture of white pine, fir, and spruce that appear as shrub-like krummholz.
rocky_mountains: People from all over the world visit the sites to hike, camp, or engage in mountain sports.
rocky_mountains: On July 24, 1832, Benjamin Bonneville led the first wagon train across the Rocky Mountains by using South Pass in the present State of Wyoming.
rocky_mountains: The angle of subduction was shallow, resulting in a broad belt of mountains running down western North America.
rocky_mountains: In one major example, eighty years of zinc mining profoundly polluted the river and bank near Eagle River in north-central Colorado.
rocky_mountains: Periods of glaciation occurred from the Pleistocene Epoch (1.8 million – 70,000 years ago) to the Holocene Epoch (fewer than 11,000 years ago).
rocky_mountains: After 1802, fur traders and explorers ushered in the first widespread American presence in the Rockies south of the 49th parallel.
rocky_mountains: In 1841, James Sinclair, Chief Factor of the Hudson's Bay Company, guided some 200 settlers from the Red River Colony west to bolster settlement around Fort Vancouver in an attempt to retain the Columbia District for Britain.
rocky_mountains: Its southernmost point is near the Albuquerque metropolitan area, adjacent to the Rio Grande rift, and north of the Sandia–Manzano Mountain Range, also near Santa Fe, New Mexico.
rocky_mountains: The Rockies formed 55 million to 80 million years ago during the Laramide orogeny, in which a number of plates began sliding underneath the North American plate.
rocky_mountains: John Denver wrote the song "Rocky Mountain High" in 1972.
rocky_mountains: The Rocky Mountains, also known as the Rockies, are a major mountain range and the largest mountain system in North America.
rocky_mountains: Central ranges of the Rockies include the La Sal Range along the Utah-Colorado border, the Abajo Mountains and Henry Mountains of Southeastern Utah, the Uinta Range of Utah and Wyoming, and the Teton Range of Wyoming and Idaho.
rocky_mountains: Mountain men, primarily French, Spanish, and British, roamed the Rocky Mountains from 1720 to 1800 seeking mineral deposits and furs.
rocky_mountains: He arrived at Bella Coola, British Columbia, where he first reached saltwater at South Bentinck Arm, an inlet of the Pacific Ocean.
rocky_mountains: Average January temperatures can range from −7 °C (20 °F) in Prince George, British Columbia, to 6 °C (43 °F) in Trinidad, Colorado.
rocky_mountains: Though political complications pushed its completion to 1885, the Canadian Pacific Railway eventually followed the Kicking Horse and Rogers Passes to the Pacific Ocean.
rocky_mountains: Zones in more southern, warmer, or drier areas are defined by the presence of pinyon pines/junipers, ponderosa pines, or oaks mixed with pines.
rocky_mountains: The Mormons began settling near the Great Salt Lake in 1847 and proceeded to extend settlements along the Wasatch range and into eastern Idaho throughout the subsequent decades.
rocky_mountains: In the U.S.
rocky_mountains: Mount Robson in British Columbia, at 3,954 m (12,972 ft), is the highest peak in the Canadian Rockies.
rocky_mountains: For example, the Climax mine, near Leadville, Colorado, was the largest producer of molybdenum in the world.
rocky_mountains: Since then, further tectonic activity and erosion by glaciers have sculpted the Rockies into dramatic peaks and valleys.
rocky_mountains: The party crossed the Rockies into the Columbia Valley, a region of the Rocky Mountain Trench near present-day Radium Hot Springs, British Columbia, then traveled south.
rocky_mountains: The Rocky Mountains stretch 3,000 mi (4,800 km) in a straight-line distance from the northernmost part of Western Canada, to New Mexico in the Southwestern United States.
rocky_mountains: The rocks in the Rocky Mountains were formed before the mountains were raised by tectonic forces.
rocky_mountains: Minerals found in the Rocky Mountains include significant deposits of copper, gold, lead, molybdenum, silver, tungsten, and zinc.
rocky_mountains: Jackson, Wyoming, increased 260%, from 1,244 to 4,472 residents, within those forty years.
rocky_mountains: The adjacent Columbia Mountains in British Columbia contain major resorts such as Panorama and Kicking Horse, as well as Mount Revelstoke National Park and Glacier National Park.
rocky_mountains: For 270 million years, the focus of the effects of plate collisions were near the edge of the North American Plate boundary, far to the west of the Rocky Mountain region.
rocky_mountains: Millennia of severe erosion in the Wyoming Basin transformed intermountain basins into a relatively flat terrain.
rocky_mountains: The Rockies range in latitude between the Liard River in British Columbia (at 59° N) and the Rio Grande in New Mexico (at 35° N).
rocky_mountains: Instead, ecologists divide the Rockies into a number of biotic zones.
rocky_mountains: There are a wide range of environmental factors in the Rocky Mountains.
rocky_mountains: Banff National Park
Jasper National Park
Kootenay National Park
Waterton Lakes National Park
Yoho National Park
Glacier National Park in Montana and Waterton Lakes National Park in Alberta border each other and are collectively known as Waterton-Glacier International Peace Park.
rocky_mountains: Human population is not very dense in the Rockies, with an average of four people per square kilometer and few cities with over 50,000 people.
rocky_mountains: They are often defined as a network stretching from the Liard River in British Columbia south to the headwaters of the Pecos River, a tributary of the Rio Grande, in New Mexico.
