role-playing_game: The level of realism in games ranges from just enough internal consistency to set up a believable story or credible challenge up to full-blown simulations of real-world processes.
role-playing_game: Participants in a role-playing game will generate specific characters and an ongoing plot.
role-playing_game: Online text-based role-playing games involve many players using some type of text-based interface and an Internet connection to play an RPG.
role-playing_game: Typically each player controls a separate player character, sometimes more, each of whom acts as a protagonist in the story.
role-playing_game: In traditional TTRPGs, a GM describes the game world and its inhabitants.
role-playing_game: While simple forms of role-playing exist in traditional children's games of make believe, role-playing games add a level of sophistication and persistence to this basic idea with additions such as game facilitators and rules of interaction.
role-playing_game: The tabletop format is often referred to simply as a role-playing game.
role-playing_game: Beneficiaries commonly include young people with neurodevelopmental conditions, such as Autism spectrum disorders, attention-deficit hyperactive disorder (ADHD), and dyslexia.
role-playing_game: A consistent system of rules and a campaign setting in games aids suspension of disbelief.
role-playing_game: Some games are played with characters created before the game by the GM, rather than those created by the players.
role-playing_game: Some authors divide digital role-playing games into two intertwined groups: single-player games using RPG-style mechanics, and multiplayer games incorporating social interaction.
role-playing_game: The first commercially available RPG, Dungeons & Dragons (D&D), was inspired by fantasy literature and the wargaming hobby and was published in 1974.
role-playing_game: Some live-action role-playing games use rock paper scissors or comparison of attributes to resolve conflicts symbolically, while other LARPs use physical combat with simulated arms such as airsoft guns or foam weapons.
role-playing_game: Games played in a turn-based fashion include play-by-mail games and play-by-post games.
role-playing_game: Tabletop role-playing games have been translated into a variety of electronic formats.
role-playing_game: Massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs) combine the large-scale social interaction and persistent world of MUDs with graphic interfaces.
role-playing_game: Role-playing games also include single-player role-playing video games in which the player controls one or more characters who are on a quest.
role-playing_game: In contrast to player characters, non-player characters (NPCs) are controlled by the gamemaster or game engine, or by people assisting the gamemaster.
role-playing_game: Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a narrative, either through literal acting or through a process of structured decision-making regarding character development.
role-playing_game: Tabletop role-playing games may also be used in therapy settings to help individuals develop behavioral, social, and even language skills.
role-playing_game: Such role-playing games extend an older tradition of storytelling games where a small party of friends collaborate to create a story.
role-playing_game: Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media, such as multiplayer text-based multi-user dungeons (MUDs) and their graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs).
role-playing_game: Participants act out their characters' actions instead of describing them, and the real environment is used to represent the imaginary setting of the game world.
role-playing_game: Both forms can have features of a storytelling game.
role-playing_game: Computer-assisted gaming can be used to add elements of computer gaming to in-person tabletop role-playing, where computers are used for record-keeping and sometimes to resolve combat, while the participants generally make decisions concerning character interaction.
role-playing_game: Non-player characters fill out the population of the fictional setting and can act as antagonists, bystanders, or allies of the player characters.
role-playing_game: These types of games tend to reduce or eliminate the use of dice and other randomizing elements.
role-playing_game: LARPs vary in size from a handful of players to several thousand, and in duration from a couple of hours to several days.
role-playing_game: These early computer RPGs influenced all of electronic gaming, as well as spawning the role-playing video game genre.
role-playing_game: Some outcomes are determined by the game system, and some are chosen by the GM.
role-playing_game: To distinguish this form of RPG from other formats, the retronyms tabletop role-playing game or pen and paper role-playing game are sometimes used, though neither a table nor pen and paper are strictly necessary.
role-playing_game: Whereas a viewer of a television show is a passive observer, a player in a role-playing game makes choices that affect the story.
role-playing_game: Most MMORPGs do not actively promote in-character role-playing, however, players can use the games' communication functions to role-play so long as other players cooperate.
role-playing_game: This translation changes the experience of the game, providing a visual representation of the world but emphasizing statistical character development over collaborative, interactive storytelling.
role-playing_game: In video RPGs, many of the functions of a GM are fulfilled by the game engine.
role-playing_game: However, TTRPGs experienced a resurgence in popularity between the mid-2010s and early 2020s due to actual play web series and online play through videoconferencing during the COVID-19 lockdowns.
role-playing_game: The term role-playing game is also sometimes used to describe other games involving roleplay simulation, such as exercises used in teaching, training, academic research, or therapeutic settings.
role-playing_game: The original form, sometimes called the tabletop role-playing game (TTRPG), is conducted through discussion, whereas in live action role-playing (LARP), players physically perform their characters' actions.
role-playing_game: The majority of players in MMORPGs do not engage in role-playing in this sense.
role-playing_game: Games played in a real-time way include MUDs, MUSHes, and other varieties of MU*.
role-playing_game: Role-playing video games may include player capabilities that advance over time using statistical attributes.
role-playing_game: Games that emphasize plot creation and player interaction over game mechanics and combat sometimes prefer the name storytelling game.
role-playing_game: Another standard concept in RPGs is the player character, a character in the fictional world of the game whose actions the player controls.
role-playing_game: Although some amount of role-playing activity may be present in such games, it is not the primary focus.
role-playing_game: A role-playing game (sometimes spelled as roleplaying game or abbreviated as RPG) is a game in which players assume and play out the roles of characters in a fictional setting.
role-playing_game: These electronic games sometimes share settings and rules with tabletop RPGs, but emphasize character advancement more than collaborative storytelling.
role-playing_game: The other players describe the intended actions of their characters, and the GM describes the outcomes.
role-playing_game: Interactivity is the crucial difference between role-playing games and traditional fiction/ entertainment.
role-playing_game: Some RPG-related game forms, such as collectible card games (CCGs) and wargames, may or may not be included under the definition of role-playing games.
role-playing_game: Actions taken within many games succeed or fail according to a formal system of rules and guidelines.
role-playing_game: There are several forms of role-playing games.
role-playing_game: As early as 1974, the same year as the release of Dungeons & Dragons, unlicensed versions of it were developed on mainframe university systems under titles such as dnd and Dungeon.
role-playing_game: In both TTRPGs and LARPs, often an arranger called a game master (GM) decides on the game system and setting to be used, while acting as a facilitator or referee.
role-playing_game: Each of the other players then takes on the role of a single character in the experience.
role-playing_game: Both authors and major publishers of tabletop role-playing games consider them to be a form of interactive and collaborative storytelling.
role-playing_game: Tabletop (TTRPG) and pen-and-paper (PnP) RPGs are conducted through discussion in a small social gathering.
role-playing_game: In tabletop and live-action RPGs the GM performs these duties in person.
role-playing_game: However, some multi-player video RPGs also allow for a participant to take on a GM role through a visual interface called a GM toolkit, albeit with abilities limited by the available technology.
role-playing_game: A LARP is played more like improvisational theatre.
role-playing_game: One common feature of many RPGs is the role of a gamemaster (GM), a participant who has special duties to present the fictional setting, arbitrate the results of character actions, and maintain the narrative flow.
role-playing_game: In contrast, many indie role-playing games experiment with different structures of play, such as sharing the responsibility for creating setting details and NPCs among all players.
role-playing_game: Events, roles, and narrative structure give a sense of a narrative experience, and the game need not have a strongly defined storyline.
role-playing_game: This is the format in which role-playing games were first popularized.
role-playing_game: The popularity of tabletop games decreased in the late 1990s due to competition from online MMO RPGs, role-playing video games, and collectible card games.
role-playing_game: This type of game is typically played at gaming conventions, or in standalone games that do not form part of a campaign.
role-playing_game: There is also a great variety of systems of rules and game settings.
role-playing_game: Players are often costumed as their characters and use appropriate props, and the venue may be decorated to resemble the fictional setting.
role-playing_game: The popularity of D&D led to the birth of the tabletop role-playing game industry, which publishes games with many different themes, rules, and styles of play.
