russia: ISBN 978-0-670-86461-4.
russia: Russian explorers pushed eastward primarily along the Siberian River Routes, and by the mid-17th century, there were Russian settlements in eastern Siberia, on the Chukchi Peninsula, along the Amur River, and on the coast of the Pacific Ocean.
russia: An additional two or three years of schooling are required for the secondary-level certificate, and some seven-eighths of Russians continue their education past this level.
russia: Remnants of these steppe civilisations were discovered in places such as Ipatovo, Sintashta, Arkaim, and Pazyryk, which bear the earliest known traces of horses in warfare.
russia: The federal subjects have equal representation—two delegates each—in the Federation Council, the upper house of the Federal Assembly.
russia: In 1969, Vladimir Motyl's White Sun of the Desert was released, a very popular film in a genre of ostern; the film is traditionally watched by cosmonauts before any trip into space.
russia: Russia has heavily influenced classical music, ballet, theatre, mathematics, sport, painting, and cinema.
russia: The Russian Civil War broke out between the anti-communist White movement and the Bolsheviks with its Red Army.
russia: Some writers dared to oppose Soviet ideology, such as Nobel Prize-winning novelist Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, who wrote about life in the Gulag camps, and Andrey Sinyavsky.
russia: Russia has among the highest gender gaps in life expectancy—78 for females and 68 for males—a gap of 10 years.
russia: In 1914, Russia entered World War I in response to Austria-Hungary's declaration of war on Russia's ally Serbia, and fought across multiple fronts while isolated from its Triple Entente allies.
russia: Mikhail Bulgakov was one of the leading writers of the Soviet era.
russia: Throughout his rule, sweeping reforms were made, which brought significant Western European cultural influences to Russia.
russia: During and after the disintegration of the Soviet Union, wide-ranging reforms including privatisation and market and trade liberalisation were undertaken, including radical changes along the lines of "shock therapy".
russia: The tsar promulgated a new code of laws (Sudebnik of 1550), established the first Russian feudal representative body (the Zemsky Sobor), revamped the military, curbed the influence of the clergy, and reorganised local government.
russia: Humans reached Arctic Russia at least 40,000 years ago, in Mamontovaya Kurya.
russia: Moscow, the nation's cosmopolitan capital and historic core, is a megacity; it retains classical and Soviet-era architecture while boasting high art, world class ballet, and modern skyscrapers.
russia: Ultimately, Ukraine was split along the Dnieper, placing Left-bank Ukraine and Kiev under Russian rule.
russia: In many regions of East Siberia and the Russian Far East, winter is dry compared to summer, while other parts of the country experience more even precipitation across seasons.
russia: Under Alexander I, Empire style became the de facto architectural style.
russia: The continued internal struggle in the Bolshevik party culminated in the Great Purge.
russia: Vladimir Vernadsky is considered one of the founders of geochemistry, biogeochemistry, and radiogeology.
russia: In 1963, Valentina Tereshkova became the first and youngest woman in space, having flown a solo mission on Vostok 6.
russia: On 31 December 1999, President Yeltsin unexpectedly resigned, handing the post to the recently appointed prime minister and his chosen successor, Vladimir Putin.
russia: Saint Petersburg, the imperial capital, is famous for its classical architecture, cathedrals, museums and theatres, white nights, crisscrossing rivers and numerous canals.
russia: Russia's pre-school education system is highly developed and optional, some four-fifths of children aged 3 to 6 attend day nurseries or kindergartens.
russia: Jazz, even with sanctions from Soviet authorities, flourished and evolved into one of the country's most popular musical forms.
russia: The lowest point in Russia and Europe, is situated at the head of the Caspian Sea, where the Caspian Depression reaches some 29 metres (95.1 ft) below sea level.
russia: Putin's rule increased stability, while transforming Russia into an authoritarian state.
russia: In Dagestan, some Salafis along with facing government harassment based on their appearance, have had their homes blown up in counterinsurgency operations.
russia: Russia, or the Russian Federation, is a country in Eastern Europe and North Asia.
russia: Vladimir-Suzdal continued the tradition of strong princely rule, while the Novgorod Republic, which formally won its independence in 1136, was an exception.
russia: The main product of Russian farming has always been grain, which occupies well over half the cropland.
russia: Nevertheless, this environment fostered experimental and postmodern literature and satire.
russia: There are 400 news agencies in Russia, among which the largest internationally operating are TASS, RIA Novosti, Sputnik, and Interfax.
russia: Another German failure was the Siege of Leningrad, in which the city was fully blockaded on land between 1941 and 1944 by German and Finnish forces, and suffered starvation and more than a million deaths, but never surrendered.
russia: According to the Primary Chronicle, the word Rus' is derived from the Rus' people, who were a Swedish tribe, and from where the three original members of the Rurikid dynasty came from.
russia: Soviet-era filmmakers, most notably Sergei Eisenstein and Andrei Tarkovsky, would go on to become among of the world's most innovative and influential directors.
russia: After becoming the world's second nuclear power, the Soviet Union established the Warsaw Pact alliance, and entered into a struggle for global dominance, known as the Cold War, with the rivalling United States and NATO.
russia: Since 2004, Freedom House has ranked Russia as "not free" in its Freedom in the World survey.
russia: As of 2025, the total fertility rate across Russia is estimated to be 1.37 children born per woman, which is below the replacement rate of 2.1 and among the lowest in the world.
russia: The turn of the 20th century saw the rise of symbolism, represented by Mikhail Vrubel and Nicholas Roerich.
russia: Yet, inflation has remained comparatively high, with experts predicting the sanctions will have a long-term negative effect on the Russian economy.
russia: Domestic literature subsequently declined in influence among most Russians, who now had sudden and rapid access to a wide volume of previously suppressed Western literary movements.
russia: Mikhail Bakunin is referred to as the father of anarchism.
russia: Statutes, such as the Russian Civil Code and the Russian Criminal Code, are the predominant legal sources of Russian law.
russia: ISBN 978-0-333-66066-9.
russia: However, its road density is among the world's lowest, in part to its vast land area.
russia: It is the most populous country in Europe and ninth-most populous country in the world.
russia: Central Intelligence Agency.
russia: The Soviet Union, ultimately, made the costly transformation from a largely agrarian economy to a major industrial powerhouse within a short span of time.
russia: It also ranked tenth worldwide in the number of scientific publications in 2020, with roughly 1.3 million papers.
russia: Russia is among the five recognised nuclear-weapons states, with the world's largest stockpile of nuclear weapons; over half of the world's nuclear weapons are owned by Russia.
russia: Ice hockey is very popular in Russia, and the Soviet national ice hockey team dominated the sport internationally throughout its existence.
russia: Eisenstein was a student of Lev Kuleshov, who developed the groundbreaking Soviet montage theory of film editing at the world's first film school, the All-Union Institute of Cinematography.
russia: The oldest endonyms used were Rus' (Русь) and the "Russian land" (Русская земля, Russkaya zemlya).
russia: The monarchy was replaced by a shaky coalition of political parties that declared itself the Provisional Government, and proclaimed the Russian Republic.
russia: The westernmost parts of Kaliningrad Oblast and some parts in the south of Krasnodar Krai and the North Caucasus have an oceanic climate.
russia: The World Factbook.
russia: The first trace of an early modern human in Russia dates back to 45,000 years, in Western Siberia.
russia: Russia initially made rapid advances in the northern and eastern fronts, yet failed to capture Kyiv and overthrow the Ukrainian government, leading to a subsequent withdrawal from the north.
russia: It spans the northernmost edge of Eurasia and has the world's fourth-longest coastline, of over 37,653 km (23,396 mi).
russia: Russia is constitutionally a secular state that officially enshrines freedom of religion.
russia: The country's high suicide rate also remains a significant social issue.
russia: The Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, taking advantage, occupied parts of Russia, extending into the capital Moscow.
russia: Catherine II ("the Great"), who ruled from 1762 to 1796, presided over the Russian Age of Enlightenment.
russia: Ivan III married Sophia Palaiologina, the niece of the last Byzantine emperor Constantine XI, and made the Byzantine double-headed eagle his own, and eventually Russia's, coat-of-arms.
russia: In late 1993, tensions between Yeltsin and the Russian parliament culminated in a constitutional crisis which ended violently through military force.
russia: About 2 million years ago, representatives of Homo erectus migrated to the Taman Peninsula in southern Russia.
russia: Russia possesses the second-largest fleet of ballistic missile submarines, and is one of the only three countries operating strategic bombers.
russia: Subsequently, it has one of the oldest populations in the world, with a median age of 41.9 years.
russia: In 2014, following a pro-Western revolution in Ukraine, Russia invaded and annexed Crimea.
russia: The Diomede Islands, administered by Russia and the United States, are just 3.8 km (2.4 mi) apart; and Kunashir Island of the Kuril Islands is merely 20 km (12.4 mi) from Hokkaido, Japan.
russia: The federal districts of Russia were established by Putin in 2000 to facilitate central government control of the federal subjects.
russia: As of 2023, Russia has 181 active satellites in space, which is the third-highest in the world.
russia: Following his short reign, Catherine's strategy was continued with Alexander I's (1801–1825) wresting of Finland from the weakened Sweden in 1809, and of Bessarabia from the Ottomans in 1812.
russia: Bloomsbury USA.
russia: Primary school is compulsory for eleven years, starting from age 6 to 7, and leads to a basic general education certificate.
russia: The Soviet Union, along with the United States, the United Kingdom and China were considered the Big Four of Allied powers in World War II, and later became the Four Policemen, which was the foundation of the United Nations Security Council.
russia: The Romanov dynasty acceded to the throne in 1613 by the decision of the Zemsky Sobor, and the country started its gradual recovery from the crisis.
russia: Following the 1917 Russian Revolution, the monarchy was abolished, and the Soviet Union was proclaimed as a one-party communist state until its collapse.
russia: The uprising was put down, but the government was forced to concede major reforms (Russian Constitution of 1906), including granting freedoms of speech and assembly, the legalisation of political parties, and the creation of an elected legislative body, the State Duma.
russia: Prince Andrey Bogolyubsky sacked Kiev in 1169 and made Vladimir his base, leading to political power being shifted to the north-east.
russia: It has over 900 airports, ranking seventh in the world, of which the busiest is Sheremetyevo International Airport in Moscow.
russia: During most of the 19th and early 20th centuries, Russia and Britain colluded over Afghanistan and its neighbouring territories in Central and South Asia; the rivalry between the two major European empires came to be known as the Great Game.
russia: Following the annexations, the conflict has settled into a war of attrition in the southern and eastern fronts, with Russian forces making slow, limited advances and suffering heavy casualties.
russia: It affects various sectors, including the economy, the government, law enforcement, healthcare, education, and the military.
russia: The invaders, later known as Tatars, formed the state of the Golden Horde, which ruled over Russia for the next two centuries.
russia: Led by Prince Dmitry Donskoy of Moscow, the united army of Russian principalities inflicted a milestone defeat on the Mongol-Tatars in the Battle of Kulikovo in 1380.
russia: Soviet forces steamrolled through Eastern and Central Europe in 1944–1945 and captured Berlin in May 1945.
russia: On 17 March, a referendum was held, in which the vast majority of participating citizens voted in favour of changing the Soviet Union into a renewed federation.
russia: Leon Trotsky, the main proponent of world revolution, was exiled from the Soviet Union in 1929, and Stalin's idea of Socialism in One Country became the official line.
russia: In Russian, the current name of the country, Россия (Rossiya), comes from the Byzantine Greek name Ρωσία (Rosía).
russia: Following the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the demographic crisis has deepened, owing to high military fatalities and renewed emigration.
russia: Alexander I controlled Russia's delegation at the Congress of Vienna, which defined the map of post-Napoleonic Europe.
russia: Influential émigré writers include Vladimir Nabokov, Joseph Brodsky, and Isaac Asimov, who was considered one of the "Big Three" science fiction writers.
russia: United Russia is the dominant political party in Russia and has been described as "big tent" and the "party of power".
russia: It is generally described by political analysts as a great power.
russia: Rossiya is distinguished from the ethnonym russkiy, as it refers to a supranational identity, including ethnic Russians.
russia: It was also a member state of the G8 (now the G7) and part of the Council of Europe before its expulsion from the two groups in 2014 and 2022, respectively.
russia: Russia has the largest incarcerated population in Europe, and the fifth-largest incarcerated population in the world.
russia: Russia was expelled from the Council of Europe in March 2022, and subsequently suspended from the United Nations Human Rights Council the following month.
russia: Most of northwest Russia and Siberia have a subarctic climate, with extremely severe winters in the inner regions of northeast Siberia (mostly Sakha, where the Northern Pole of Cold is located with the record low temperature of −71.2 °C or −96.2 °F), and more moderate winters elsewhere.
russia: With a population density of 8.5 inhabitants per square kilometre (22 inhabitants/mi2), Russia is one of the world's most sparsely populated countries, with the vast majority of its people concentrated within its western part.
russia: All this formed the climate for the Russian Revolution of 1917, carried out in two major acts.
russia: Oleg Losev made crucial contributions in the field of semiconductor junctions, and discovered light-emitting diodes.
russia: Owing to its large coastline along three oceans and twelve marginal seas, Russia maintains the world's sixth-largest fishing industry, capturing nearly 5 million tons of fish in 2018.
russia: Spring and Labour Day, originally a Soviet era holiday dedicated to workers, is celebrated on 1 May.
russia: There are many popular non-public holidays.
russia: According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the English name Russia first appeared in the 14th century, borrowed from Medieval Latin: Russia, used in the 11th century and frequently in 12th-century British sources, in turn derived from Russi, 'the Russians' and the suffix -ia.
russia: Brief periods of non-autocratic rule include the short-lived Provisional Government in 1917 established during the February Revolution, and during the transition of post-Soviet Russia into a flawed democracy during the presidency of Boris Yeltsin in the 1990s.
russia: Russia had an estimated population of 146.0 million in 2025 (143.6 million excluding Crimea and Sevastopol), down from 147.2 million in the 2021 census.
russia: Following the Russian Civil War, Russia became the largest and principal constituent of the newly established Soviet Union in 1922.
russia: According to the Primary Chronicle, a Varangian from the Rus', named Rurik, was elected ruler of Novgorod in 862.
russia: Eventually, internal border changes and annexations during World War II resulted in a union of 15 republics, the largest and most populous being the Russian SFSR, which dominated the union politically, culturally, and economically.
russia: It grants free education to its citizens by constitution.
russia: Moscow gradually absorbed its parent duchy and surrounding principalities, including formerly strong rivals such as Tver and Novgorod.
russia: The French invasion of Russia at the height of Napoleon's power in 1812 reached Moscow, but eventually failed as the obstinate resistance in combination with the bitterly cold Russian winter led to a disastrous defeat of invaders, in which the pan-European Grande Armée faced utter destruction.
russia: It also produced some first-rate novelists and short-story writers, such as Aleksandr Kuprin, Nobel Prize winner Ivan Bunin, Leonid Andreyev, Yevgeny Zamyatin, Dmitry Merezhkovsky, and Andrei Bely.
russia: The Russian Armed Forces are divided into the Ground Forces, the Navy, and the Aerospace Forces—and there are also two independent arms of service: the Strategic Missile Troops and the Airborne Troops.
russia: Russian cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first human to orbit the Earth, aboard the Vostok 1 crewed spacecraft on 12 April 1961.
russia: Russia has also increasingly pushed to expand its influence across the Arctic, the Asia–Pacific, and Latin America.
russia: The 18th-century taste for Rococo architecture led to the works of Bartolomeo Rastrelli and his followers.
russia: On 22 June 1941, Germany invaded the Soviet Union, opening the Eastern Front, the largest theatre of World War II.
russia: In 1721, Peter the Great proclaimed the Russian Empire (Rossiyskaya imperiya).
russia: By 1991, economic and political turmoil began to boil over as the Baltic states chose to secede from the Soviet Union.
russia: In September 2022, Russia proclaimed the annexation of four partially-occupied Ukrainian regions, which was internationally denounced as illegal.
russia: It is the largest country in the world, spanning eleven time zones and sharing land borders with fourteen countries.
russia: Galicia–Volhynia would later be absorbed by Lithuania and Poland, while the Novgorod Republic continued to prosper in the north.
russia: It is a highly urbanised country, with sixteen of its urban areas having more than 1 million inhabitants.
russia: As of 2019, Russia has the world's fifth-largest road network, with over 1.5 million km of roads.
russia: (20 July 2021).
russia: With a population of over 140 million, Russia is the most populous country in Europe and the ninth-most populous in the world.
russia: Russia's inland waterways are the longest in the world, totalling 102,000 km (63,380 mi).
russia: The Ministry of Education of Russia is responsible for primary and secondary education, as well as vocational education, while the Ministry of Education and Science of Russia is responsible for science and higher education.
russia: Russia, owing to its gigantic size, has diverse ecosystems, including polar deserts, tundra, forest-tundra, taiga, mixed and broadleaf forest, forest steppe, steppe, semi-desert, and subtropics.
russia: Although in decline, the country still has many ecosystems which are still considered intact forest, mainly in the northern taiga areas, and the subarctic tundra of Siberia.
russia: The large global Russian diaspora has also played a major role in spreading Russian culture throughout the world.
russia: The most influential Russian architects of the eighteenth century, Vasily Bazhenov, Matvey Kazakov, and Ivan Starov, created lasting monuments in Moscow and Saint Petersburg and established a base for the more Russian forms that followed.
russia: Russia is the world's third-largest energy producer as of 2023.
russia: Nomadic pastoralism developed in the Pontic–Caspian steppe beginning in the Chalcolithic.
russia: Russia is the fifth-largest hydroelectric producer as of 2022, with hydroelectric power contributing almost a fifth to the total energy generation (17%).
russia: However, Russian teams are currently suspended from FIFA and UEFA competitions.
russia: Ivan Aivazovsky, another Romantic painter, is considered one of the greatest masters of marine art.
russia: High budget deficits coupled with increasing capital flight and inability to pay back debts, caused the 1998 Russian financial crisis, which resulted in a further GDP decline.
russia: An alternative socialist establishment co-existed, the Petrograd Soviet, wielding power through the democratically elected councils of workers and peasants, called soviets.
russia: This pattern of a centralised ruling system has its roots in the late Middle Ages, with a unified Russian state being established as an absolute monarchy in the late 15th century, a governance structure that was followed until the early 20th century.
russia: Russia is famed worldwide for its rich museums, such as the State Russian, the State Hermitage, and the Tretyakov Gallery, and for theatres such as the Bolshoi and the Mariinsky.
russia: The conflict marked the first war in Europe in the 21st century.
russia: 6 January], 1918, the Russian Constituent Assembly declared Russia a democratic federal republic (thus ratifying the Provisional Government's decision).
russia: Nikolay Ostrovsky's novel How the Steel Was Tempered has been among the most successful works of Russian literature.
russia: Flavourful soups and stews include shchi, borsch, ukha, solyanka, and okroshka.
russia: In the 3rd to 4th centuries AD, the Gothic kingdom of Oium existed in southern Russia, which was later overrun by Huns.
russia: World-renowned composers of the 20th century include Alexander Scriabin, Alexander Glazunov, Igor Stravinsky, Sergei Prokofiev and Dmitri Shostakovich, and later Edison Denisov, Sofia Gubaidulina, Georgy Sviridov, and Alfred Schnittke.
russia: After them came the Pechenegs who created a large confederacy, which was subsequently taken over by the Cumans and the Kipchaks.
russia: It has been widely described as an energy superpower.
russia: In 1965, Alexei Leonov became the first human to conduct a spacewalk, exiting the space capsule during Voskhod 2.
russia: Lake Baikal, the largest and most prominent among Russia's fresh water bodies, is the world's deepest, purest, oldest and most capacious fresh water lake, containing over one-fifth of the world's fresh surface water.
russia: It can be traced to the Early Middle Ages, when Old Church Slavonic was introduced as a liturgical language and came to be used as a literary language, creating a situation of diglossia.
russia: In modern Russian, the name Rus' is still used in poetry or prose to refer to either the older Russia or an imagined essence of Russia.
russia: The largest ports include the Port of Novorossiysk, the Great Port of Saint Petersburg and the Port of Vladivostok.
russia: In the northeast, the Byzantine-Slavic traditions of Kievan Rus' were adapted to form the Russian autocratic state.
russia: Following Lenin's death in 1924, a troika was designated to take charge.
russia: The frozen conflict escalated into a full-scale Russian invasion of the remainder of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, initiating the largest conventional war in Europe since World War II.
russia: In 1957, Laika, a Soviet space dog, became the first animal to orbit the Earth, aboard Sputnik 2.
russia: Russian cuisine has been formed by the country's diverse climate, cultural and religious traditions, and vast geography; it shares similarities with neighbouring countries.
russia: Pop music has continued to flourish in Russia since the 1960s, with globally famous acts such as t.A.T.u.
russia: Russia was the first country to develop civilian nuclear power, building the world's first nuclear power plant in 1954, and remains a pioneer in nuclear energy technology and is considered a world leader in fast neutron reactors.
russia: Climate change in Russia is causing more frequent wildfires, and thawing the country's large expanse of permafrost.
russia: In 1970, Venera 7 became the first spacecraft to land on another planet, Venus.
russia: By the 12th century, Kiev lost its pre-eminence and Kievan Rus' had fragmented into different principalities.
russia: The early 19th century saw many prominent paintings by Karl Briullov and Alexander Ivanov, both of whom were known for Romantic historical canvases.
russia: Following Pushkin's footsteps, a new generation of poets were born, including Mikhail Lermontov, Nikolay Nekrasov, Aleksey Konstantinovich Tolstoy, Fyodor Tyutchev, and Afanasy Fet.
russia: Summers can be quite hot, even in Siberia.
russia: In the east, the rapid Russian exploration and colonisation of vast Siberia continued, hunting for valuable furs and ivory.
russia: Trofim Lysenko was known mainly for Lysenkoism.
russia: In 1979, after a communist-led revolution in Afghanistan, Soviet forces invaded the country, ultimately starting the Soviet–Afghan War.
russia: It was proclaimed as the Russian Empire in 1721, which became the third-largest empire in history.
russia: Many Soviet socialist realism films were artistically successful, including Chapaev, The Cranes Are Flying, and Ballad of a Soldier.
russia: It has a labour force of about 72 million, which is the ninth-largest in the world.
russia: Putin then went on to win the 2012 presidential election, which fuelled the "Snow Revolution" protests.
russia: Two-thirds of the global population, specifically the developing countries of the Global South, are either neutral or leaning towards Russia politically.
russia: The Russian Academy of Arts, which was established in 1757 to train Russian artists, brought Western techniques of secular painting to Russia.
russia: Nine Soviet and Russian mathematicians have been awarded with the Fields Medal.
russia: Following its disintegration, the late medieval Grand Principality of Moscow led the unification of Russian lands, culminating in the formation of the Tsardom of Russia in 1547.
russia: The 2008 constitutional amendments saw the terms of the president extend to six years and the lower house (State Duma) to five years.
russia: Russia's large oil and gas sector accounted for 30% of its federal budget revenues in 2024, down from 50% in the mid-2010s, suggesting economic diversification.
russia: Russia's vast landmass stretches over the easternmost part of Europe and the northernmost part of Asia.
russia: The economic and political collapse of the Soviet Union led Russia into a deep and prolonged depression.
russia: High oil prices and a rise in foreign investment saw the Russian economy and living standards improve significantly.
russia: In 2013, an anti-LGBTQ law banning "gay propaganda" was unanimously passed by the State Duma and the Federation Council, later being signed into law by Vladimir Putin.
russia: Amidst rapid industrialisation in the 1930s, millions died under Joseph Stalin.
russia: Fossils of Denny, an archaic human hybrid that was half Neanderthal and half Denisovan, and lived some 90,000 years ago, was also found within the latter cave.
russia: doi:10.1007/978-1-349-26080-5.
russia: In particular, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch say that Russia is not democratic and allows few political rights and civil liberties to its citizens.
russia: A Concise History of Russia.
russia: Between the 3rd and 6th centuries AD, the Bosporan Kingdom, which was a Hellenistic polity that succeeded the Greek colonies, was also overwhelmed by nomadic invasions led by warlike tribes such as the Huns and Eurasian Avars.
russia: Private healthcare has also seen development, created out of the public healthcare fund.
russia: The Soviet economy and infrastructure suffered massive devastation, which caused the Soviet famine of 1946–1947.
russia: As the legal successor of the Soviet Union, Russia retains its seat as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
russia: Old New Year is celebrated on 14 January.
russia: Mikhail Saltykov-Shchedrin wrote prose satire, while Nikolai Leskov is best remembered for his shorter fiction.
russia: Text taken from Frequently Asked Questions on Energy Security​, International Energy Agency, the International Energy Agency.
russia: The Russian Revolution of 1917 led to the abolition of the Russian monarchy and the creation of the Russian SFSR, the first socialist state.
russia: During the crisis, Yeltsin was backed by Western governments, and over 100 people were killed.
russia: Russia's most visited and popular landmarks include Red Square, the Peterhof Palace, the Kazan Kremlin, the Trinity Lavra of St.
russia: Post-Soviet Russia under the regime of Vladimir Putin has been governed by a form of crony capitalism.
russia: Crops of rye, wheat, barley, and millet provide the ingredients for various breads, pancakes and cereals, as well as for many drinks.
russia: Russia is a member state of the G20, the OSCE, BRICS, WTO, and the APEC; and the leading member state of organisations such as the CIS, the EAEU, the CSTO, and the SCO.
russia: Bread, of many varieties, is very popular across Russia.
russia: George Gamow was one of the foremost advocates of the Big Bang theory.
russia: Russia has the world's largest proven gas reserves, the second-largest coal reserves, the eighth-largest proven oil reserves, and the largest oil shale reserves in Europe.
russia: Television is the most popular medium in Russia.
russia: Vladimir Lenin, a major revolutionary, developed a variant of communism known as Leninism.
russia: Bandy is Russia's national sport, and it has historically been the highest-achieving country in the sport.
russia: Russian literature is among the world's most influential and developed.
russia: Alexander Zinoviev was a prominent philosopher and writer in the second half of the 20th century.
russia: Admission to an institute of higher education is selective and highly competitive: first-degree courses usually take five years.
russia: In 1961, the first human trip into space was successfully made by Yuri Gagarin.
russia: In the second half of the century Anton Chekhov excelled in short stories and became a leading dramatist.
russia: The laws of the regions cannot contradict federal laws.
russia: Islam is the second-largest religion in Russia and is traditional among the majority of peoples in the North Caucasus and some Turkic peoples in the Volga-Ural region.
russia: Fossil fuels account for over 64% of energy production and 87% of energy consumption.
russia: Ministries of the government are composed of the premier and his deputies, ministers, and selected other individuals; all are appointed by the president on the recommendation of the prime minister (whereas the appointment of the latter requires the consent of the State Duma).
russia: Russian energy policy aims to expand the role of nuclear energy and develop new reactor technology.
russia: In 1968, Zond 5 brought the first Earthlings (two tortoises and other life forms) to circumnavigate the Moon.
russia: In the 1930s, socialist realism became the predominant trend in Russia.
russia: The Russian national football team reached the semi-finals of Euro 2008.
russia: The name Rossiya was used as the common designation for the multinational Russian Empire and then for the modern Russian state.
russia: As of 2023, the service sector accounts for roughly 57% of total GDP, followed by the industrial sector (30%), while the agricultural sector is the smallest, at 3% of total GDP.
russia: Macmillan Education UK.
russia: Russian culture reflects a long, gradual, and complex amalgamation of various elements that coincided with centuries of development, expansion, and interaction with different peoples, artistic movements, and cultures.
russia: From the mid-13th century, the throne of Novgorod was held by the grand princes of Vladimir, although the prince's authority gradually diminished in favour of more republican-style governance, with political power increasingly held by the veche (popular assembly) and elected officials.
russia: Peter Kropotkin was the most important theorist of anarcho-communism.
russia: In 1703, Peter founded Saint Petersburg on the Baltic Sea by establishing the Peter and Paul Fortress as a strategic outpost; the city later replaced Moscow as Russia's capital in 1712.
russia: Russia's vast coastline along the Arctic Ocean and the Russian Arctic islands have a polar climate.
russia: Wine has become increasingly popular in Russia in the 21st century.
russia: In the 21st century, following the presidencies of Vladimir Putin and Dmitry Medvedev, Russia has experienced significant democratic backsliding.
russia: Channon, John; Hudson, Robert (1995).
russia: The emergence of the East Slavs as a prominent group in Europe between the 3rd and 8th centuries AD led to the establishment of Kievan Rus' in the 9th century, which adopted Orthodox Christianity from the Byzantine Empire in 988.
russia: The Soviet Union later invaded Finland, and occupied and annexed the Baltic states, as well as parts of Romania.
russia: Putin then won the 2000 presidential election, and defeated the Chechen insurgency in the Second Chechen War.
russia: Additionally, the international sanctions have led Russia to become heavily economically and technologically dependent on China.
russia: Through his political and religious reforms, Vladimir laid the foundations for the transformation of Kievan Rus' from a fragmented conglomeration of tributary groups into a more unified realm, connected by dynastic authority and shared religious and cultural ties.
russia: The political system evolved from electoral authoritarianism into a consolidated authoritarian regime.
russia: According to the Russian Census of 2010, 137.5 million across the country spoke Russian, 3.1 million spoke Tatar, and 1.1 million spoke Ukrainian.
russia: Chess is also a widely popular pastime in the nation, with many of the world's top chess players being Russian for decades.
russia: Russia was the host nation for the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup, and the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
russia: Nicholas's successor Alexander II (1855–1881) enacted significant changes throughout the country, including the emancipation reform of 1861.
russia: Aristotle Fioravanti and other Italian architects brought Renaissance trends to the Grand Principality of Moscow, which influenced the reconstruction of the Moscow Kremlin.
russia: As of 2021, Russia's intentional homicide rate stood at 6.8 per 100,000 people.
russia: Russia also made pioneering contributions to science, technology, and space exploration.
russia: According to Forbes, Russia has the fifth-highest number of billionaires in the world.
russia: The establishment of the first East Slavic states in the 9th century coincided with the arrival of the Varangians, Vikings who ventured along the waterways extending from the eastern Baltic to the Black and Caspian Seas.
russia: From the 7th century onwards, the incoming East Slavs slowly assimilated the native Finno-Ugrians.
russia: Russia spent 7.39% of its GDP on healthcare in 2021.
russia: Then, during the Age of Realism, came Ivan Turgenev, who mastered both short stories and novels.
russia: Following a constitutional crisis in 1993, a new constitution was adopted, establishing a semi-presidential republic.
russia: Élie Metchnikoff is known for his groundbreaking research in immunology.
russia: From the time Chechen separatists declared independence in the early 1990s, an intermittent guerrilla war was fought between the rebel groups and Russian forces.
russia: Russian philosophy has been influential.
russia: Led by Mikhail Kutuzov and Michael Andreas Barclay de Tolly, the Imperial Russian Army ousted Napoleon and drove throughout Europe in the War of the Sixth Coalition, ultimately entering Paris.
russia: In 1966, Luna 9 became the first spacecraft to achieve a survivable landing on a celestial body, the Moon.
russia: In 2008, Putin took the post of prime minister, while Dmitry Medvedev was elected President for one term, to hold onto power despite legal term limits; this period has been described as a "tandemocracy".
russia: Putin's ruling policies are generally referred to as Putinism.
russia: The name Rossiya appeared in Russian sources in the 15th century and began to replace the vernacular Rus' during the rise of Moscow as the centre of a unified Russian state.
russia: Russia has over 100,000 rivers; the Volga in western Russia, which is widely regarded as the national river, is the longest river in Europe and forms the Volga Delta, the largest river delta in the continent.
russia: Its healthcare expenditure is notably lower than other developed nations.
russia: High levels of corruption, declining oil export revenues, a shrinking labour force, human capital flight, and an aging and declining population also remain major barriers to future economic growth.
russia: In the 21st century, Russia has pursued an aggressive foreign policy aimed at securing regional dominance in Europe and increasing its international influence, as well as increasing domestic support for the government.
russia: Russia had a Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 9.02 in 2019, ranking 10th out of 172 countries, and the first ranked major nation globally.
russia: In the 18th century, academicians Ivan Argunov, Dmitry Levitzky, Vladimir Borovikovsky became influential.
russia: Early Indo-European migrations from the Pontic–Caspian steppe of Ukraine and Russia spread Yamnaya ancestry and Indo-European languages across large parts of Eurasia.
russia: Wikimedia Atlas of Russia
 Geographic data related to Russia at OpenStreetMap
Russia.
russia: In the 19th century, it was defined by the tension between classical composer Mikhail Glinka along with other members of The Mighty Handful, who were later succeeded by the Belyayev circle, and the Russian Musical Society led by composers Anton and Nikolay Rubinstein.
russia: After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Russian cinema industry suffered large losses; however, since the late 2000s, it has seen growth once again, and continues to expand.
russia: Russia is also home to 32 UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
russia: It maintains diplomatic relations with 187 United Nations member states, two partially-recognised states, and two United Nations observer states, along with 143 embassies.
russia: Russia, as one of the world's only three countries bordering three oceans, has links with a great number of seas.
russia: Russian biodiversity includes 12,500 species of vascular plants, 2,200 species of bryophytes, about 3,000 species of lichens, 7,000–9,000 species of algae, and 20,000–25,000 species of fungi.
russia: Russia is the world's largest exporter of wheat and the largest producer of barley and buckwheat.
russia: In modern historiography, the early medieval East Slavic state is usually referred to as Kievan Rus', named after its capital city.
russia: As of 2023, the overall life expectancy in Russia at birth is 73 years, an increase of roughly 8 years from 2005.
russia: By the early 18th century, Russia had expanded vastly through conquest, annexation, and the efforts of Russian explorers.
russia: During the Napoleonic Wars, Russia joined alliances with various European powers, and fought against France.
russia: The adjective российский, rossiiskiy denotes Russian citizens regardless of ethnicity.
russia: Ladoga and Onega in northwestern Russia are two of the largest lakes in Europe.
russia: However, its income inequality remains comparatively high compared to other developed countries.
russia: Russia is generally considered a great power and wields significant regional influence in Europe, possessing the largest stockpile of nuclear weapons and having the third-highest military expenditure in the world.
russia: Dmitry Mendeleev invented the Periodic table, the main framework of modern chemistry.
russia: He adopted Christianity from the Byzantine Empire, beginning the synthesis of Byzantine and Slavic cultures that would define Russian culture for the next millennium.
russia: Led by Prince Alexander Nevsky, the Novgorodians repelled the invading Swedes in the Battle of the Neva in 1240, as well as the Germanic crusaders in the Battle on the Ice in 1242.
russia: Russian and later Soviet cinema was a hotbed of invention, resulting in world-renowned films such as Battleship Potemkin, which was named the greatest film of all time at the Brussels World's Fair in 1958.
russia: At the same time, Cold War tensions reached its peak when the two rivals clashed over the deployment of the United States Jupiter missiles in Turkey and Soviet missiles in Cuba.
russia: Russia: A Country Study.
russia: Russia's national symbol, the double-headed eagle, dates back to the Tsardom period and is featured in its coat of arms and heraldry.
russia: The Kurgan hypothesis places the Volga-Dnieper region of southern Russia and Ukraine as the urheimat of the Proto-Indo-Europeans.
russia: The constitution gives the country's individual republics the right to establish their own state languages in addition to Russian, as well as guarantee its citizens the right to preserve their native language and to create conditions for its study and development.
russia: In 1803–1806, the first Russian circumnavigation was made.
russia: Railway transport in Russia is mostly controlled by the state-run Russian Railways.
russia: Serbia has been a historically close ally of Russia, as both countries share a strong mutual cultural, ethnic, and religious affinity.
russia: The Russian national basketball team won EuroBasket 2007, and the Russian basketball club PBC CSKA Moscow is among the most successful European basketball teams.
russia: Russian clubs CSKA Moscow and Zenit Saint Petersburg won the UEFA Cup in 2005 and 2008.
russia: By the 1980s, rock music became popular across Russia, and produced bands such as Aria, Aquarium, DDT, and Kino; the latter's leader Viktor Tsoi, was in particular, a gigantic figure.
russia: Its lakes contain approximately one-quarter of the world's liquid fresh water.
russia: Russia ranked 60th in the Global Innovation Index in 2025.
russia: Among the 3,000 licensed radio stations nationwide, notable ones include Radio Rossii, Vesti FM, Echo of Moscow, Radio Mayak, and Russkoye Radio.
russia: The same applies to the more recently coined noun россиянин, rossiianyn, in the sense of citizen of the Russian state.
russia: Russia's human development is ranked as "very high" in the annual Human Development Index.
russia: Russia is a multilingual nation: approximately 100–150 minority languages are spoken across the country.
russia: The noun and adjective русский, russkiy refers to ethnic Russians.
russia: Winter precipitation in most parts of the country usually falls as snow.
russia: In the early 15th century, master icon painter Andrei Rublev created some of Russia's most treasured religious art.
russia: Ward, Christopher J.; Thompson, John M.
russia: In 2023, Russia had the world's second-largest illegal arms trade market, after the United States, was described as a key hub for human trafficking, and was ranked first in Europe and 19th globally in the Global Organized Crime Index.
russia: The country has the world's highest vodka consumption, while beer is the most popular alcoholic beverage.
russia: In 1991, the Russian SFSR emerged from the dissolution of the Soviet Union as the Russian Federation.
russia: The year starts with New Year's Day on 1 January, soon followed by Russian Orthodox Christmas on 7 January; the two are the country's most popular holidays.
russia: Large populations of Buddhists are found in Kalmykia, Buryatia, Zabaykalsky Krai, and they are the vast majority of the population in Tuva.
russia: Radiocarbon dated specimens from Denisova Cave in the Altai Mountains estimate the oldest Denisovan specimen lived 195–122,700 years ago.
russia: The first human settlement on Russia dates back to the Oldowan period in the early Lower Paleolithic.
russia: Russia wields significant political influence across the geopolitically important South Caucasus and Central Asia, described in Russia as the "near abroad", while foreign political analysts have described the two regions as being part of Russia's "backyard".
russia: In 1957, the Soviet Union launched the world's first artificial satellite, Sputnik 1, thus starting the Space Age.
russia: After World War II, according to the Potsdam Conference, the Red Army occupied parts of Eastern and Central Europe, including East Germany and the eastern regions of Austria.
russia: In 2023, the Russian parliament passed a bill banning gender reassignment surgery for transgender people and the Supreme Court of Russia banned the international LGBTQ movement as "extremist", outlawing it in the country.
russia: Catherine's successor, her son Paul, was unstable and focused predominantly on domestic issues.
russia: Russia constitutionally guarantees free, universal health care for all Russian citizens through the mandatory medical insurance (OMS) funded by the Federal Compulsory Medical Insurance Fund (FFOMS) created in 1993.
russia: The 1990s were plagued by armed conflicts in the North Caucasus, both local ethnic skirmishes and separatist Islamist insurrections.
russia: Official website
Major staff and key officials
General information
russia: Most foreign tourists come from China.
russia: Religious and spiritual philosophy is represented by Vladimir Solovyov, Nikolai Berdyaev, Pavel Florensky, Semyon Frank, Nikolay Lossky, Vasily Rozanov, and others.
russia: In 882, his successor Oleg ventured south and conquered Kiev, which had been previously paying tribute to the Khazars.
russia: However, the Tsardom was weakened by the long and unsuccessful Livonian War against the coalition of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania (later the united Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth), the Kingdom of Sweden, and Denmark–Norway for access to the Baltic coast and sea trade.
russia: During the same period, Lunokhod 1 became the first space exploration rover, while Salyut 1 became the world's first space station.
russia: Rurik's son Igor and Igor's son Sviatoslav subsequently subdued all local East Slavic tribes to Kievan rule, destroyed the Khazar state, and launched several military expeditions to Bulgaria, Byzantium and Persia.
russia: Novgorod became a major commercial centre through the fur trade and an important centre of Russian culture.
russia: Following a diplomatic standoff with neighbouring Georgia in 2008, Russian forces invaded the country from 1–16 August 2008 and occupied territories that it has since considered as independent states, Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
russia: Lev Landau made fundamental contributions to many areas of theoretical physics.
russia: By the end of the violent civil war, Russia's economy and infrastructure were heavily damaged, and as many as 10 million perished during the war, mostly civilians.
russia: The Finnish word for Swedes, ruotsi, has the same origin.
russia: During this period of rapid economic and social change, millions of people were sent to penal labour camps, including many political convicts for their suspected or real opposition to Stalin's rule, and millions were deported and exiled to remote areas of the Soviet Union.
russia: The later tradition of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, one of the greatest composers of the Romantic era, was continued into the 20th century by Sergei Rachmaninoff.
russia: During his long reign, Ivan nearly doubled the already large Russian territory by annexing the three Tatar khanates: Kazan and Astrakhan along the Volga, and the Khanate of Sibir in southwestern Siberia.
russia: In the 2010 census, roughly 81% of the population were ethnic Russians, and the remaining 19% of the population were ethnic minorities.
russia: Many other Soviet and Russian space exploration records ensued.
russia: In 1612, the Poles were forced to retreat by the Russian volunteer corps, led by merchant Kuzma Minin and prince Dmitry Pozharsky.
russia: Dependent communist governments were installed in the Eastern Bloc satellite states.
russia: Russia's infant mortality rate is very low (4 per 1,000 live births).
russia: Under Peter the Great, Russia was proclaimed an empire in 1721, and established itself as one of the European great powers.
russia: Other important 19th-century developments included the fabulist Ivan Krylov, non-fiction writers such as the critic Vissarion Belinsky, and playwrights such as Aleksandr Griboyedov and Aleksandr Ostrovsky.
russia: The vast majority of the Immigrants hail from post-Soviet states, with about half of them being from Ukraine and Kazakhstan as of 2020.
russia: Tea has been popular in Russia for centuries.
russia: Matryoshka dolls are a cultural icon of Russia.
russia: Russian is the official and the predominantly spoken language in Russia.
russia: Russia has a near-universal adult literacy rate, and has compulsory education for a duration of 11 years, exclusively for children aged 7 to 17–18.
russia: Prevalent styles of the late 20th century were Art Nouveau, Constructivism, and Socialist Classicism.
russia: Kiev's dominance waned, to the benefit of Vladimir-Suzdal in the north-east, the Novgorod Republic in the north, and Galicia–Volhynia in the south-west.
russia: The comedies of Eldar Ryazanov and Leonid Gaidai were immensely popular, with many of their catchphrases still in use today.
russia: Its major islands and archipelagos include Novaya Zemlya, Franz Josef Land, Severnaya Zemlya, the New Siberian Islands, Wrangel Island, the Kuril Islands (four of which are disputed with Japan), and Sakhalin.
russia: However, Russia has completed its transition into a war economy, and has shown resilience to such measures broadly, maintaining economic stability and growth—driven primarily by high military expenditure, rising household consumption and wages, low unemployment, and increased government spending.
russia: The late 19th century saw the rise of various socialist movements in Russia.
russia: The name Росия (Rosiya) was first attested in 1387.
russia: The reign of Peter I's daughter Elizabeth from 1741 to 1762 saw Russia's participation in the Seven Years' War (1756–1763).
russia: At the beginning of the 21st century, the most discussed figures, postmodernists Victor Pelevin and Vladimir Sorokin, remained the leading Russian writers.
russia: Dziga Vertov's "Kino-Eye" theory had a large effect on the development of documentary filmmaking and cinema realism.
russia: Russian forces have been accused of committing war crimes during the invasion, and occupied about a fifth of Ukraine's territory at the end of 2025.
russia: In 2012, the research organisation Sreda, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, published the Arena Atlas, an adjunct to the 2010 census, enumerating in detail the religious populations and nationalities of Russia, based on a large-sample country-wide survey.
russia: In the early 20th century, Russian neoclassical revival became a trend.
russia: Dukes, Paul (1998).
russia: Cosmonautics Day on 12 April, in tribute to the first human trip into space.
russia: The total length of common-used railway tracks is the world's third-longest, exceeding 87,000 km (54,100 mi).
russia: The reigns of Vladimir the Great (980–1015) and his son Yaroslav the Wise (1019–1054) constitute Kiev's Golden Age.
russia: As of 2025, Russia maintains the world's third-highest military expenditure, spending $190 billion, corresponding to about 7.5% of its GDP.
russia: The next day the Constituent Assembly was dissolved by the All-Russian Central Executive Committee.
russia: Luna 25 launched in August 2023, was the first of the Luna-Glob Moon exploration programme.
russia: Its healthcare system has decentralized since the 1990s, with federal entities having local healthcare departments, shifting from the centralized and hierarchical Soviet system.
russia: Russia, by constitution, is a symmetric federal republic with a semi-presidential system, wherein the president is the head of state, and the prime minister is the head of government.
russia: They include 45 biosphere reserves, 64 national parks, and 101 nature reserves.
russia: In regards to media freedom, Russia was ranked 172th out of 180 countries in Reporters Without Borders' Press Freedom Index for 2026.
russia: Football is the most popular sport in Russia.
russia: Agriculture, forestry and fishing contributes about 3.3% of the country's total GDP as of 2023.
russia: The 1980 Summer Olympic Games were held in Moscow, and the 2014 Winter Olympics and the 2014 Winter Paralympics were hosted in Sochi.
russia: 1500 years ago.
russia: Russia's national non-alcoholic drink is kvass, and the national alcoholic drink is vodka; its production in Russia (and elsewhere) dates back to the 14th century.
russia: She extended Russian political control over the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and annexed most of its territories into Russia, making it the most populous country in Europe.
russia: It was also the third-largest arms exporter in 2020–2024, and has a large and indigenous defence industry, which produces the majority of its military equipment.
russia: Fyodor Dostoevsky and Leo Tolstoy soon became internationally renowned.
russia: In 1571, the Crimean Tatars, supported by the Ottomans, burned down Moscow, destroying everything except the Kremlin.
russia: In August 1991, a coup d'état attempt by members of Gorbachev's government, directed against Gorbachev and aimed at preserving the Soviet Union, instead led to the end of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.
russia: It has initiated military interventions in the post-Soviet states of Georgia and Ukraine, as well as in Syria during its prolonged civil war in a bid to increase its influence in the Middle East, and achieve its great power ambitions.
russia: There are ten federal universities across the country.
russia: The Allied powers launched an unsuccessful military intervention in support of anti-communist forces.
russia: Terrorist attacks against civilians were carried out by Chechen separatists, claiming the lives of thousands of Russian civilians.
russia: After the fall of Constantinople in 1453, Moscow claimed succession to the legacy of the Eastern Roman Empire.
russia: From the 21st century, relations between Russia and China have significantly strengthened bilaterally and economically due to shared political interests.
russia: As a result, political power fragmented among competing regional centres, marking a gradual shift toward decentralisation.
russia: Theodosius Dobzhansky was the central figure in the field of evolutionary biology for his work in shaping the modern synthesis.
russia: Putin won a second presidential term in 2004.
russia: Russia continues to rank very low in measurements of democracy, human rights and media freedom, while having high levels of corruption.
russia: Its economy ranks among the largest in the world by both nominal GPD and PPP-adjusted GPD, relying on its vast mineral and energy resources, mainly oil and natural gas.
russia: Russian is one of two official languages aboard the International Space Station, as well as one of the six official languages of the United Nations.
russia: The Russian vernacular remained in use for oral literature and chancery writing; it gradually supplanted Church Slavonic in secular works, contributing to the standardisation of the modern Russian literary language in the 18th and early 19th centuries.
russia: At the same time, its relations with neighbouring Ukraine and the Western world—specifically the United States and the countries of the European Union and NATO—have collapsed.
russia: During the 10th and 11th centuries, Kievan Rus' became one of the largest and most prosperous states in Europe.
russia: Between the final flight of the Space Shuttle programme in 2011 and the 2020 SpaceX's first crewed mission, Soyuz rockets were the only launch vehicles capable of transporting astronauts to the ISS.
russia: Russia is the leading nation in rhythmic gymnastics, and Russian synchronised swimming is considered to be the world's best.
russia: The era of the 1970s and the early 1980s was later designated as the Era of Stagnation.
russia: Sergius and Lake Baikal.
russia: Russia's entirely natural ecosystems are conserved in nearly 15,000 specially protected natural territories of various statuses, occupying more than 10% of the country's total area.
russia: It is the most spoken native language in Europe, the most geographically widespread language of Eurasia, as well as the world's most widely spoken Slavic language.
russia: State-run Channel One and Russia-1 are the leading news channels, while RT is the flagship of Russia's international media operations.
russia: Maslenitsa is an ancient and popular East Slavic folk holiday.
russia: Unlike the Soviet asymmetric model of the RSFSR, where only republics were "subjects of the federation", the current constitution raised the status of other regions to the level of republics and made all regions equal with the title "subject of the federation".
russia: It has the world's fourth-largest cultivated area, at 1,265,267 square kilometres (488,522 sq mi).
russia: Russian literature faced rapid and difficult changes during the turbulent 1990s, with writers and publishers struggling to adjust to new economic and political developments.
russia: In 1957, the first Earth-orbiting artificial satellite, Sputnik 1, was launched.
russia: Ruling from 1682 to 1725, Peter defeated Sweden in the Great Northern War (1700–1721), securing Russia's access to the sea and sea trade.
russia: The privatisation largely shifted control of enterprises from state agencies to individuals with inside connections in the government, which led to the rise of Russian oligarchs.
russia: Grigori Perelman was offered the first ever Clay Millennium Prize Problems Award for his final proof of the Poincaré conjecture in 2002, as well as the Fields Medal in 2006.
russia: After the Russian Revolution of 1917, Russian literature split into Soviet and white émigré parts.
russia: The 1960s and 1970s saw a greater variety of artistic styles in Soviet cinema.
russia: Many of the newly rich moved billions in cash and assets outside of the country in an enormous capital flight.
russia: Russia joined the Paris Agreement on climate change in 2015, and ratified the agreement in 2019.
russia: On 19 January [O.S.
russia: Eventually, some 5 million Red Army troops were captured by the Nazis; the latter deliberately starved to death or otherwise killed 3.3 million Soviet POWs, and a vast number of civilians, as the "Hunger Plan" sought to fulfil Generalplan Ost.
russia: About half of Russia's territory is forested, and it has the world's largest area of forest.
russia: Roscosmos is Russia's national space agency.
russia: The transitional disorganisation of the country's agriculture, combined with the harsh state policies and a drought, led to the Soviet famine of 1932–1933, which killed 5.7 to 8.7 million, 3.3 million of them in the Russian SFSR.
russia: However, upon Elizabeth's death, all these conquests were returned to the Kingdom of Prussia by pro-Prussian Peter III of Russia.
russia: Regional authorities regulate education within their jurisdictions within the prevailing framework of federal laws.
russia: Eventually Joseph Stalin, the General Secretary of the Communist Party, managed to suppress all opposition factions and consolidate power in his hands to become the country's dictator by the 1930s.
russia: Throughout much of the territory, there are only two distinct seasons, winter and summer, as spring and autumn are usually brief.
russia: ISBN 978-1-4728-6251-8.
russia: Two major Christian holidays are Easter and Trinity Sunday.
russia: In 1971, Mars 3 became the first spacecraft to land on Mars.
russia: As of 2021, over 41% of the Russian population has a bachelor's degree or an equivalent—which is among the highest percentages of tertiary-level graduates in the world.
russia: Russia has produced numerous prominent tennis players.
russia: During the 2022 invasion of Ukraine, Russia has set up filtration camps where many Ukrainians are subjected to abuses and forcibly sent to Russia; the camps have been compared to those used in the Chechen Wars.
russia: Roughly 70% of Russia's total GDP is driven by final consumption, and the country has the world's twelfth-largest consumer market.
russia: Mountain ranges in the south and east obstruct the flow of warm air masses from the Indian and Pacific oceans, while the European Plain spanning its west and north opens it to influence from the Atlantic and Arctic oceans.
russia: In North America, the Russians became the first Europeans to reach and colonise Alaska.
russia: It has one of the most female-biased sex ratios in the world, with 0.859 males to every female, due to its high male mortality rate.
russia: The Christianization of Kievan Rus' brought centuries Byzantine architecture.
russia: The coldest month is January (February on the coastline); the warmest is usually July.
russia: In the 17th century, the "fiery style" of ornamentation flourished in Moscow and Yaroslavl, gradually paving the way for the Naryshkin baroque of the 1680s.
russia: Defender of the Fatherland Day, dedicated to men, is celebrated on 23 February.
russia: Its leading figure was Maxim Gorky, who laid the foundations of this style.
russia: From the early 1830s, during the Golden Age of Russian Poetry, literature underwent an astounding golden age in poetry, prose and drama.
russia: Of the 16,000 registered newspapers, Argumenty i Fakty, Komsomolskaya Pravda, Rossiyskaya Gazeta, Izvestia, and Moskovskij Komsomolets are popular.
russia: Legislative: The bicameral Federal Assembly of Russia, made up of the 450-member State Duma and the 170-member Federation Council, adopts federal law, declares war, approves treaties, has the power of the purse and the power of impeachment of the president.
russia: Judiciary: The Constitutional Court, Supreme Court and lower federal courts, whose judges are appointed by the Federation Council on the recommendation of the president, interpret laws and can overturn laws they deem unconstitutional.
russia: The regions of Russia have reserved areas of competence, but regions do not have sovereignty, do not have the status of a sovereign state, do not have the right to indicate any sovereignty in their constitutions and do not have the right to secede from the country.
russia: Prior to Slavic migration, that territory was populated by Finno-Ugrian peoples.
russia: In 1820, a Russian expedition discovered the continent of Antarctica.
russia: The history of Russian architecture begins with early woodcraft buildings of ancient Slavs and the church architecture of Kievan Rus'.
russia: The variance of natural resources among its federal subjects has also led to regional economic disparities.
russia: Since the times of Nikolay Lobachevsky, who pioneered the non-Euclidean geometry, and Pafnuty Chebyshev, a prominent tutor, Russian mathematicians became among the world's most influential.
russia: In May 1988, the Soviets started to withdraw from Afghanistan, due to international opposition, persistent anti-Soviet guerrilla warfare, and a lack of support by Soviet citizens.
russia: The second half of the 19th century was dominated by the Neo-Byzantine and Russian Revival style.
russia: To quash the insurgency in the North Caucasus, Russian authorities have been accused of indiscriminate killings, arrests, forced disappearances, and torture of civilians.
russia: ISBN 978-1-139-50444-7.
russia: However, due to the harshness of its environment, only about 13.1% of its land is agricultural, with an additional 7.4% being arable.
russia: Ivan III ("the Great") threw off the control of the Golden Horde and gained sovereignty over the ethnically Russian lands; he later adopted the title of sovereign of all Russia.
russia: The reign of Yaroslav also saw the creation of the state's first written legal code, the Russkaya Pravda.
russia: As of 2023, it is also the second-largest producer and the third-largest exporter of natural gas, as well as the second-largest producer and exporter of crude oil.
russia: As a result of victories over Qajar Iran through the Russo-Persian Wars, by the first half of the 19th century, Russia also conquered the Caucasus.
russia: He was succeeded by Catherine I (1725–1727), followed by Peter II (1727–1730), and Anna.
russia: Violations of human rights in Russia have been increasingly reported by leading democracy and human rights groups.
russia: Russia, by landmass, is larger than three continents, and has the same surface area as Pluto.
russia: However, at the expense of a large sacrifice, the Soviet Union emerged as a superpower.
russia: In 2024, the Supreme Court issued the first convictions from the latter ruling.
russia: Cambridge University Press.
russia: Russia is also a former superpower as the leading constituent of the former Soviet Union.
russia: The Soviet Union entered World War II on 17 September 1939 with its invasion of Poland, in accordance with a secret protocol within the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact with Nazi Germany.
russia: The invasion met with international condemnation, and expanded sanctions against Russia.
russia: During the reign of Catherine the Great, Saint Petersburg was transformed into an outdoor museum of Neoclassical architecture.
russia: It has also continued using subversive tactics in its rival countries to project its geopolitical power, such as cyberwarfare, disinformation campaigns, sabotage attacks, assassination attempts, airspace violations, electoral interferences, nuclear sabre-rattling, and hybrid warfare.
russia: Russia from BBC News
Key Development Forecasts for Russia from International Futures
russia: The oldest and largest universities in Russia are Moscow State University and Saint Petersburg State University.
russia: Ivan Pavlov is known chiefly for his work in classical conditioning.
russia: In 2020, the Russian parliament legalised a constitutional ban on same-sex marriage, and in 2021 the Ministry of Justice designated the LGBTQ rights group Russian LGBT Network as a "foreign agent".
russia: The country's agricultural land is considered part of the "breadbasket" of Europe.
russia: Licensed under CC BY 4.0 (license statement/permission).
russia: As the successor state of the Soviet Union, it retains its seat as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and is a member state of several international organisations.
russia: In 1648, Semyon Dezhnyov became the first European to navigate through the Bering Strait.
russia: Area Handbook.
russia: There are over 193 ethnic groups nationwide.
russia: Great ranges of temperature are typical.
russia: India is the largest customer of Russian military equipment, and the two countries share a strong strategic and diplomatic relationship since the Soviet era.
russia: In 1916, the Brusilov Offensive of the Imperial Russian Army almost completely destroyed the Austro-Hungarian Army.
russia: Nikolai Vavilov was best known for having identified the centres of origin of cultivated plants.
russia: The president is elected by popular vote for a six-year term and may be elected no more than twice.
russia: The East Slavs gradually settled western Russia (approximately between modern Moscow and Saint-Petersburg) in two waves: one moving from Kiev towards present-day Suzdal and Murom and another from Polotsk towards Novgorod and Rostov.
russia: Putin's second tenure as president has led to further autocratization, which has been the most significant since the Soviet era, with some authors suggesting a regeneration of totalitarian elements.
russia: The Soviet Union played a decisive role for the Allies in World War II by leading large-scale efforts on the Eastern Front.
russia: Ancient North Eurasian populations from Siberia genetically similar to Mal'ta–Buret' culture and Afontova Gora were an important genetic contributor to Ancient Native Americans and Eastern Hunter-Gatherers.
russia: Galeotti, Mark (5 November 2024).
russia: The Ural Mountains, running north to south through the country's west, are rich in mineral resources, and form the traditional boundary between Europe and Asia.
russia: The officers who pursued Napoleon into Western Europe brought ideas of liberalism back to Russia, and attempted to curtail the tsar's powers during the abortive Decembrist revolt of 1825.
russia: The Soviet era saw some of the most significant Russian technological achievements, including the first human-made satellite and the first human expedition into outer space.
russia: While there is scholarly debate over the significance of the veche in the Middle Ages as a representative political body, Russian society has historically been ruled by various forms of autocracy.
russia: In 2009, it recorded annual population growth for the first time in fifteen years, and subsequently experienced annual population growth due to declining death rates, increased birth rates, and increased immigration.
russia: In the south, after the successful Russo-Turkish Wars against the Ottoman Empire, Catherine advanced Russia's boundary to the Black Sea, by dissolving the Crimean Khanate, and annexing Crimea.
russia: Only the Novgorod Republic escaped foreign occupation after it agreed to pay tribute to the Mongols.
russia: Russian writers and philosophers have played an important role in the development of European literature and thought.
russia: In August 1945, the Red Army invaded Manchuria and ousted the Japanese from Northeast Asia, contributing to the Allied victory over Japan.
russia: Figure skating is another popular sport in Russia, especially pair skating and ice dancing.
russia: The Penguin Historical Atlas of Russia.
russia: There are several words in Russian which translate to "Russians" in English.
russia: Pirozhki, blini, and syrniki are native types of pancakes.
russia: During the Soviet era, popular music also produced a number of renowned figures, such as the two balladeers—Vladimir Vysotsky and Bulat Okudzhava, and performers such as Alla Pugacheva.
russia: In 1654, the Ukrainian leader, Bohdan Khmelnytsky, offered to place Ukraine under the protection of the Russian tsar, Alexis, whose acceptance of this offer led to another Russo-Polish War.
russia: Russia was home to some of the last surviving Neanderthals, from about 45,000 years ago, found in Mezmaiskaya cave.
russia: The primary and fundamental statement of laws in Russia is the constitution.
russia: Human settlement on modern Russian territory dates back to the Lower Paleolithic.
russia: At the end of the conservative reign of Nicholas I (1825–1855), a zenith period of Russia's power and influence in Europe, was disrupted by defeat in the Crimean War.
russia: Some political scientists have characterised Putin as the head of a dictatorship, or a personalist regime.
russia: In the 21st century, many scholars view its global influence as being in decline.
russia: Natural gas is by far the largest source of energy, comprising over half of the energy production and 42% of electricity consumption.
russia: The annual celebration of women has become so popular, especially among Russian men, that the flower vendors of Moscow often see profits "fifteen times" more compared to other holidays.
russia: Alexander Herzen is known as one of the fathers of agrarian populism.
russia: Russia shares a complex strategic, energy, and defence relationship with Turkey.
russia: Kievan Rus' finally fell to the Mongol invasions of 1237–1240, which resulted in the sacking of Kiev and other cities, as well as the death of a major part of the population.
russia: Its political system has been variously described as a kleptocracy, an oligarchy, and a plutocracy.
russia: Since 1999, Russia's political system has been dominated by Vladimir Putin, under whose leadership it has experienced democratic backsliding, transforming into an authoritarian regime.
russia: The ancestors of Russians are among the Slavic tribes that separated from the Proto-Indo-Europeans, who appeared in the northeastern part of Europe c.
russia: The president may issue decrees of unlimited scope, so long as they do not contradict the constitution or federal law.
russia: The genetic makeup of speakers of the Uralic language family in northern Europe was shaped by migration from Siberia that began at least 3,500 years ago.
russia: Leon Trotsky, Lenin's contemporary and co-revolutionary, founded his own strain of Marxism known as Trotskyism.
russia: The size of Russia and the remoteness of many of its areas from the sea result in the dominance of the humid continental climate throughout most of the country, except for the tundra and the extreme southwest.
russia: Another Medieval Latin name for Rus' was Ruthenia.
russia: According to the International Monetary Fund, it has the ninth-largest economy by nominal GDP and the fourth-largest economy by GDP (PPP).
russia: Russia has one of the world's largest amounts of energy resources throughout its vast landmass, particularly natural gas and oil, which play a crucial role in its energy self-sufficiency and exports.
russia: Vladimir Zworykin was the inventor of the iconoscope and kinescope television systems.
russia: The country is highly urbanised, with two-thirds of the population living in urban areas.
russia: Salads include Olivier salad, vinegret, and dressed herring.
russia: Executive: The president is the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, and appoints the Government of Russia (Cabinet) and other officers, who administer and enforce federal laws and policies.
russia: Smetana (a heavy sour cream) and mayonnaise are often added to soups and salads.
russia: However, these population gains have been reversed since 2020, as excessive deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in the largest peacetime decline in its history.
russia: Ultimately, by the end of the 16th century, Russia expanded east of the Ural Mountains.
russia: The Soviet Union national football team became the first European champions by winning Euro 1960, and reached the finals of Euro 1988.
russia: Russia has the third-largest immigrant population in the world, with over 12 million immigrants residing in the country as of 2019.
russia: In 2022, further amendments were made to the 2013 anti-LGBTQ law.
russia: Many famous Russian scientists and inventors were émigrés.
russia: ISBN 978-1-000-41539-1.
russia: Russia is a multinational state with many subnational entities associated with different minorities.
russia: Chechens and Ingush in Russian prisons reportedly take more abuse than other ethnic groups.
russia: From 1985 onwards, the last Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who sought to enact liberal reforms in the Soviet system, introduced the policies of glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) in an attempt to end the period of economic stagnation and to democratise the government.
russia: Russia is the sole country that builds and operates nuclear-powered icebreakers, which ease navigation along the Northern Sea Route, and aid in utilising its Arctic policy in its continental shelf.
russia: Other patriotic holidays include Russia Day on 12 June, celebrated to commemorate Russia's declaration of sovereignty from the collapsing Soviet Union, and Unity Day on 4 November, commemorating the 1612 uprising that marked the end of the Polish occupation of Moscow.
russia: On 25 December 1991, following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, along with contemporary Russia, fourteen other post-Soviet states emerged.
russia: The Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation oversees national healthcare.
russia: It maintains cordial relations with Iran, as it is a strategic and economic ally.
russia: Kievan Rus' was politically unstable due to weak centralisation and the absence of a stable succession principle.
russia: After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Russia assumed responsibility for settling the latter's external debts.
russia: Its incarceration rate is among the highest in Europe, although the number has fallen steadily, by 59% since 2000.
russia: Bushkovitch, Paul (5 December 2011).
russia: Forged in War: A Military History of Russia from Its Beginnings to Today.
russia: Flint tools, some 1.5 million years old, have been discovered in the North Caucasus.
russia: The reign of his son Alexander III (1881–1894) was less liberal but more peaceful.
russia: The first great Russian novelist was Nikolai Gogol.
russia: In 1961–68 Sergey Bondarchuk directed an Oscar-winning film adaptation of Leo Tolstoy's epic War and Peace, which was the most expensive film made in the Soviet Union.
russia: LCCN 97007563.
russia: Prior to 1991, the Soviet economy was the world's second-largest, but during its final years, it went into a crisis.
russia: Russia has the sixth-largest diplomatic network in the world as of 2024.
russia: hdl:2027/uc1.31822023563547.
russia: Following Mongol occupation, Kievan Rus' cut its ties with the Byzantine Empire, and Russian architecture saw native innovations, such as the invention of the iconostasis.
russia: Corruption has significantly increased following the collapse of the Soviet Union, and is seen as a significant issue in society.
russia: Originally seven, currently there are eight federal districts, each headed by an envoy appointed by the president.
russia: In development of the Third Rome ideas, the grand prince Ivan IV ("the Terrible") was officially crowned as the first tsar of all Russia in 1547.
russia: In the 1860s, a group of critical realists (Peredvizhniki), led by Ivan Kramskoy, Ilya Repin and Vasiliy Perov broke with the academy, and portrayed the many-sided aspects of social life in paintings.
russia: Penal military units have been deployed as storm troops during the ongoing Russo-Ukrainian War since 2022, such as the Storm-Z and Storm-V units.
russia: Alexander II was assassinated in 1881 by revolutionary terrorists.
russia: The Khazars, who were of Turkic origin, ruled the steppes between the Caucasus in the south, to the east past the Volga river basin, and west as far as Kiev on the Dnieper river until the 10th century.
russia: Millions became White émigrés, and the Russian famine of 1921–1922 claimed up to five million victims.
russia: After the reforms of Peter the Great, Russia's architecture became influenced by Western European styles.
russia: Vasili III united all of Russia by annexing the last few independent Russian states in the early 16th century.
russia: Russian state-funded Wagner Group has been deployed in Africa (Africa Corps), and in Syria; to maintain political stability in failed states through military projection and exploit local natural resources.
russia: After the Russian Revolution and the proclamation of the Russian SFSR in 1918, the "Russian" in the title of the state was Rossiyskaya, rather than Russkaya, as the former denoted a multinational state, while the latter had ethnic dimensions.
russia: Russia's shadow economy was estimated to be about 44% of the total GDP in 2018.
russia: The Russian avant-garde flourished from approximately 1890 to 1930; globally influential artists from this era were El Lissitzky, Kazimir Malevich, Natalia Goncharova, Wassily Kandinsky, and Marc Chagall.
russia: During the Cold War, it emerged as a superpower and competed with the United States for ideological dominance.
russia: A History of Russia: Medieval, Modern, Contemporary C.
russia: In winter, temperatures get colder both from south to north and from west to east.
russia: The Siberian rivers of Ob, Yenisey, Lena, and Amur are among the world's longest rivers.
russia: During the war, Soviet civilian and military death were about 26–27 million, accounting for about half of all World War II casualties.
russia: Historically, Russian athletes have been one of the most successful contenders in the Olympic Games.
russia: Various analysts of climate change adaptation foresee large opportunities for Russian agriculture during the rest of the 21st century as arability increases in Siberia, which would lead to both internal and external migration to the region.
russia: Although the Wehrmacht had considerable early success, their attack was halted in the Battle of Moscow.
russia: ISBN 978-0-8444-0866-8.
russia: Russia has one of the world's largest surface water resources and is second only to Brazil by total renewable water resources.
russia: Its greenhouse gas emissions are the fourth-largest in the world as of 2023.
russia: Following the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the country has faced extensive sanctions and other negative financial actions from the Western world and its allies which have the aim of isolating the Russian economy from the Western financial system.
russia: Russia is home to 32 UNESCO World Heritage Sites, 21 of which are cultural, while 31 lie on the tentative list.
russia: Until the 18th century, music in Russia consisted mainly of church music and folk songs and dances.
russia: Curtis, Glenn E., ed.
russia: However, various experts have claimed Russia's linguistic diversity is rapidly declining due to many languages becoming endangered.
russia: Early Russian painting is represented in icons and vibrant frescos.
russia: In 1992, most consumer price controls were eliminated, causing extreme inflation and significantly devaluing the rouble.
russia: The depression of the economy led to the collapse of social services—the birth rate plummeted while the death rate skyrocketed, and millions plunged into poverty, while extreme corruption, as well as criminal gangs and organised crime rose significantly.
russia: It is home to the world's finest caviar, the beluga, and produces about one-third of all canned fish and some one-fourth of the world's total fresh and frozen fish.
russia: While still under the domain of the Mongol-Tatars and with their connivance, Moscow began to assert its influence in the region in the early 14th century, gradually becoming the leading force in the "gathering of the Russian lands".
russia: The annual Formula One Russian Grand Prix was held at the Sochi Autodrom in the Sochi Olympic Park, until its termination following the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.
russia: As of 2025, it is the lowest rated European country in Transparency International's annual Corruption Perceptions Index, ranking 157th out of the 180 countries listed.
russia: The region along the Lower Volga and Caspian Sea coast, as well as some southernmost slivers of Siberia, possess a semi-arid climate.
russia: These reforms spurred industrialisation, and modernised the Imperial Russian Army, which liberated much of the Balkans from Ottoman rule in the aftermath of the 1877–1878 Russo-Turkish War.
russia: Russia has introduced several restrictions on LGBTQ rights.
russia: Alexander Popov was among the inventors of radio, while Nikolai Basov and Alexander Prokhorov were co-inventors of laser and maser.
russia: Russia has eight official holidays spanning public, patriotic, and religious commemorations.
russia: International Women's Day on 8 March, gained momentum in Russia during the Soviet era.
russia: The rota system introduced by Yaroslav led to princely authority being distributed among members of the ruling Rurikid dynasty according to seniority.
russia: Other meat dishes include stuffed cabbage rolls (golubtsy) usually filled with meat.
russia: It also supported an insurgency in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, and aided pro-Russian separatists waging a war against the Ukrainian government.
russia: Russia spent about 1% of its GDP on research and development in 2019, with the world's tenth-highest budget.
russia: Russia: A Historical Introduction from Kievan Rus' to the Present.
russia: However, until the end of the 17th century, the country was more often referred to by its inhabitants as Rus', the "Russian land" (Russkaya zemlya), or the "Muscovite state" (Moskovskoye gosudarstvo), among other variations.
russia: The 16th century saw the development of the unique tent-like churches and the onion dome design, which is a distinctive feature of Russian architecture.
russia: Since 1904, Nobel Prize were awarded to 26 Soviets and Russians in physics, chemistry, medicine, economy, literature and peace.
russia: It is mandatory for all male citizens aged 18–27 to be drafted for a year of service in the Armed Forces.
russia: Victory Day, which honours Soviet victory over Nazi Germany and the End of World War II in Europe, is celebrated on 9 May as an annual large parade in Moscow's Red Square and marks the famous Immortal Regiment civil event.
russia: Beef Stroganoff, Chicken Kiev, pelmeni, and shashlyk are popular meat dishes.
russia: More than one-third of the sown area is devoted to fodder crops, and the remaining farmland is used industrial crops, vegetables, and fruits.
russia: Cardiovascular diseases account for more than half of the yearly mortalities in Russia, which is one of the highest percentages in the world.
russia: Over four-fifths of Russia's population was of European descent—of whom the vast majority were Slavs, with a substantial minority of Finno-Ugric and Germanic peoples.
russia: By the Age of Enlightenment, literature had grown in importance, with works from Mikhail Lomonosov, Denis Fonvizin, Gavrila Derzhavin, and Nikolay Karamzin.
russia: The Russian Bear and Mother Russia are often used as national personifications of the country.
russia: Igor Sikorsky was an aviation pioneer.
russia: Russia has also significantly developed its relations with North Korea following its invasion of Ukraine in 2022, with increased defence co-operation.
russia: Political repression also increased following the start of the invasion, with laws adopted that establish punishments for "discrediting" the armed forces.
russia: Subsequently, the Germans were dealt major defeats first at the Battle of Stalingrad in the winter of 1942–1943, and then in the Battle of Kursk in the summer of 1943.
russia: Since 2011, the Economist Intelligence Unit has ranked Russia as an "authoritarian regime" in its Democracy Index, ranking it 148th out of 167 countries in 2025.
russia: Mystic Helena Blavatsky gained an international following as the leading theoretician of Theosophy and the co-founder of the Theosophical Society.
russia: Moscow's last rival, the Novgorod Republic, prospered as the chief fur trade centre and the easternmost port of the Hanseatic League.
russia: It is officially structured as a multi-party representative democracy, with the federal government composed of three branches:
russia: Russia is the world's fourth-largest nuclear energy producer.
russia: Moscow, the most populous metropolitan area in Europe, is the capital and largest city of Russia, while Saint Petersburg is its second-largest city and a major cultural centre.
russia: However, Russia has also had 43 Olympic medals stripped from its athletes due to doping violations, which is the most of any country, and nearly a third of the global total.
russia: Russia's largest trading partner is China.
russia: Coal accounts for over 10% of its energy consumption.
russia: Intended to preserve dynastic unity, this system increasingly fostered rivalry among princes, leading to frequent infighting.
russia: Russia maintains close relations with neighbouring Belarus, which is a part of the Union State, a supranational confederation of the two states.
russia: This, however, led to the rise of strong nationalist and separatist movements across the country.
russia: Russia lies between latitudes 41° and 82° N, and longitudes 19° E and 169° W, extending some 9,000 km (5,600 mi) east to west, and 2,500 to 4,000 km (1,600 to 2,500 mi) north to south.
russia: According to estimates by the BBC, around 48,000 prisoners were recruited to fight for the Wagner Group.
russia: The following year, the Crimeans attempted another raid on Moscow, but this time they were defeated in the crucial Battle of Molodi.
russia: The beginning of the 20th century ranks as the Silver Age of Russian Poetry.
russia: Muslims, especially Salafis, have faced persecution in Russia.
russia: It is also among the largest exporters of maize and sunflower oil, as well as the leading producer of fertiliser.
russia: The Moscow Kremlin and the Saint Basil's Cathedral are among the cultural landmarks of Russia.
russia: Major tourist routes in Russia include a journey around the Golden Ring of Russia, a theme route of ancient Russian cities; cruises on large rivers such as the Volga; hikes on mountain ranges such as the Caucasus Mountains, and journeys on the famous Trans-Siberian Railway.
russia: The death of Ivan's sons marked the end of the ancient Rurik dynasty in 1598, and in combination with the famine of 1601–1603, led to a civil war, the rule of pretenders, and foreign intervention during the Time of Troubles in the early 17th century.
russia: Approximately 1,100 rare and endangered plant and animal species are included in the Russian Red Data Book.
russia: The discovery of high concentration cultural remains of anatomically modern humans, from at least 40,000 years ago, was found at Kostyonki–Borshchyovo, and at Sungir, dating back to 34,600 years ago—both in western Russia.
russia: The general easement of repressive policies became known later as the Khrushchev Thaw.
russia: Federal Research Division, Library of Congress.
russia: Under Stalin's leadership, the government launched a command economy, industrialisation of the largely rural country, and collectivisation of its agriculture.
russia: Obesity is a prevalent health issue, with most adults being overweight or obese, alongside smoking—Russia's tobacco consumption rate is among the highest in the world.
russia: The destruction of Kievan Rus' saw the eventual rise of the Grand Principality of Moscow, initially a part of Vladimir-Suzdal.
russia: In early 1917, Nicholas II was forced to abdicate; he and his family were imprisoned and later executed during the Russian Civil War.
russia: Russia continued its territorial growth through the 17th century, which was the age of the Cossacks.
russia: In the meantime, both the Bolsheviks and White movement carried out campaigns of deportations and executions against each other, known respectively as the Red Terror and White Terror.
russia: Russia has a high-income, industrialised, mixed market-oriented economy following a turbulent transition from the Soviet planned model during the 1990s.
russia: As of 2025, the military have 1.1 million active-duty personnel, which is the world's fifth-largest, and about 1.5 million reserve personnel.
russia: The 1941–1945 period of World War II is known in Russia as the Great Patriotic War.
russia: Its alcohol consumption rate was historically seen as the biggest health issue, but has seen a stark decrease since 2008 due to restrictive government measures.
russia: This era had poets such as Alexander Blok, Anna Akhmatova, Boris Pasternak, Vladimir Mayakovsky, Sergei Yesenin, and Konstantin Balmont.
russia: In June 1991, Boris Yeltsin became the first directly elected President in Russian history when he was elected President of the Russian SFSR.
russia: When the seat of the metropolitan of the Russian Orthodox Church moved to Moscow in 1325, its influence increased.
russia: Though it is the eighth-largest renewable energy producer as of 2023, the use and development of other renewable energy resources remain negligible, as Russia is among the few countries without strong governmental or public support for a renewable energy transition.
russia: During the conflict, Russian troops overran East Prussia, reaching Berlin.
russia: Russia, by constitution, is a symmetric (with the possibility of an asymmetric configuration) federation.
russia: The 1965 Kosygin reform aimed for partial decentralisation of the Soviet economy.
russia: Russia's population peaked at over 148 million in 1993, having subsequently declined due to its death rate exceeding its birth rate, which some analysts have called a demographic crisis.
russia: Romantic literature permitted a flowering of poetic talent: Vasily Zhukovsky and later his protégé Alexander Pushkin came to the fore.
russia: Mikhail Bakhtin's writings have significantly inspired scholars in various fields.
russia: The coastal part of Krasnodar Krai on the Black Sea, most notably Sochi, and some coastal and interior strips of the North Caucasus possess a humid subtropical climate with mild and wet winters.
russia: However, they differ in the degree of autonomy they enjoy.
russia: However, the already-existing public distrust of the regime was deepened by the rising costs of war, high casualties, and rumours of corruption and treason.
russia: Some religious minorities have faced oppression and some have been banned in the country: notably, in 2017 the Jehovah's Witnesses were outlawed in Russia, facing persecution ever since, after having been declared an "extremist" and "nontraditional" faith.
