sahel: This, in turn, decreased the amount of land conducive to settlements and caused migrations of farming communities to the more humid climate of West Africa.
sahel: In 2023, the region recorded 3,885 fatalities out of a global total of 7,555, marking a nearly tenfold increase since 2019.
sahel: She attributes the origins of field holler music to African Muslim slaves who accounted for an estimated 30% of African slaves in America.
sahel: ISSN 0027-9358.
sahel: The seasonal wetlands of the Sahel are important for migratory birds moving within Africa and on the African-Eurasian flyways.
sahel: The Sahel region faces environmental issues that are contributing to global warming.
sahel: Grass cover is fairly continuous across the region, dominated by annual grass species such as Cenchrus biflorus, Schoenefeldia gracilis and Aristida stipoides.
sahel: During the long dry season, many trees lose their leaves and the predominantly annual grasses die.
sahel: The Catholic charity Aid to the Church in Need has highlighted the fact that the Sahel has become one of the most dangerous regions in the world for Christians.
sahel: Sāḥil literally means "coast, shore", which has been explained as a figurative reference to the southern edge of the vast Sahara.
sahel: In Chad the temperature reached 47.6 °C (117.7 °F) on 22 June in Faya-Largeau, breaking a record set in 1961 at the same location.
sahel: Female genital mutilation is also practiced across the Sahel.
sahel: This trend is mostly understood by the wave of African migrants to France since the end of the colonial era, but has intensified since the explosion of the youth population of Africa.
sahel: The Sahel has a hot semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification BSh).
sahel: This has affected shelter construction, making it necessary to change the used materials.
sahel: In March 2020, the United States sent a special envoy for the Sahel region to combat the rising violence from terrorist groups.
sahel: Following the drought period of the 1970s and 1980, however, the Sahel began to experience increased rainfall.
sahel: Warming of the Mediterranean Sea may also be a factor.
sahel: There was a major drought in the Sahel in 1914 caused by annual rains far below average, leading to large-scale famine.
sahel: The greater Sahel was subsequently organized into the massive territory of French West Africa in 1895, noted for its linguistic diversity.
sahel: When the long drought period from 1968 through 1974 began, grazing quickly became unsustainable and large-scale denuding of the terrain followed.
sahel: Everywhere in the Sahel, the average mean temperature is over 18 °C (64 °F).
sahel: The Sahel has a hot semi-arid climate and stretches across the southernmost latitudes of North Africa between the Atlantic Ocean and the Red Sea.
sahel: The Sahel is characterized by constant, intense heat, with an unvarying temperature.
sahel: Sahel loanwords are challenging the historic rigidity of the French language and its corresponding cultural norms.
sahel: Political instability, weak governance, and the rise of military juntas following coups in Mali, Burkina Faso, Guinea, and Niger have further fueled the insurgency.
sahel: Annual rain levels were measured to fall between 20 and 40% in a span of two decades from 1931 to 1960 and 1968–1990; the levels recovered slightly in the mid-1990s in some areas, especially in central and eastern areas as far as Senegal.
sahel: During November 2004, a number of major dust storms hit Chad, originating in the Bodélé Depression.
sahel: In addition to its ecological and climatic significance, the Sahel is also considered a geopolitical space, shaped by internal instability and external strategic competition.
sahel: For hundreds of years, the Sahel region has experienced frequent droughts and megadroughts.
sahel: [1] Archived 11 November 2014 at the Wayback Machine
Simon, L., A.
sahel: The Sahel's easternmost region did not fall to the European powers but to the Khedivate of Egypt when it was conquered by Muhammad Ali in the 1820s.
sahel: 24 (11): 1323–1331.
sahel: Despite resistance, territory was accrued and placed under the control of lieutenant governors who extracted resources and labor from local populations.
sahel: It covers an area of 3,053,200 square kilometers (1,178,850 sq mi).
sahel: The surge in extremist violence is attributed to the expansion of groups like the Islamic State's affiliate in the Sahel and Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen (JNIM), who compete for land and influence while imposing strict Sharia-based governance.
sahel: This led Mauritania and Chad to disband the G5 Sahel, an anti-terrorism alliance, after the military regimes in Burkina Faso, Niger, and Mali withdrew.
sahel: A major initiative to combat desertification in the Sahel region via reforestation and other interventions is the Great Green Wall.
sahel: Since then, the governments of Mali, Burkina Faso, and Niger have stripped French from being an official language, punctuating a broader theme of the Sahel's self-isolation from Paris.
sahel: The violent herder–farmer conflicts in Nigeria, Mali, Sudan and other countries in the Sahel region have been exacerbated by climate change, land degradation, and rapid population growth.
sahel: Niger's crops failed to mature in the heat, 350,000 faced starvation, and 1,200,000 were at risk of famine.
sahel: In recent times, various coups, insurgencies, terrorism and foreign interventions have taken place in many Sahel countries, especially across former Françafrique.
sahel: Mattelaer and A.
sahel: Especially in the western Sahel, there are frequent shortages of food and water due to its very high government corruption and the semi-arid climate.
sahel: After establishing French culture in northern Senegal in the mid-19th century, colonial governors like General Louis Faidherbe pushed deeper into the Sahel's interior, facing opposition from regional leaders.
sahel: The interior of the Sahel region generally receives between 200 mm and 700 mm of rain yearly.
sahel: Another struck in southern Algeria, inland Mauritania, Mali and northern Ivory Coast at the same time.
sahel: West African and Sahel loanwords have entered the lexicon of modern standard French, usually in the context of vernacular or slang elocution.
sahel: Chad was added in 1900 as part of French Equatorial Africa.
sahel: ISBN 978-9938-933-19-2.
sahel: Niger tied its highest temperature record set in 1998, also on 22 June, at 47.1 °C in Bilma.
sahel: Droughts and food shortages have been also linked to the Mali War.
sahel: In contrast, many of the slaves brought to North America were from the Sahel region and much more familiar with stringed instruments; the banjo evolved from Sahelian string instruments such as the akonting.
sahel: 600 miles) wide.
sahel: There was a push, supported by governments, for people to move northwards.
sahel: International Journal of Climatology.
sahel: In the wake of the Libyan Crisis beginning in 2011, terrorist organizations operating in the Sahel, including Boko Haram, Islamic State and al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), have greatly exacerbated the violence, extremism and instability of the region.
sahel: In 2023, fatalities from conflict in the central Sahel rose by 38%, according to data from the research organization Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project.
sahel: During the hottest period, the average high temperatures are generally between 36 and 42 °C (97 and 108 °F) (and even more in the hottest regions), often for more than three months, while the average low temperatures are around 25 to 31 °C (77 to 88 °F).
sahel: "The Stricken Land".
sahel: Like the drought in 1914, this led to a large-scale famine, but this time somewhat tempered by international visibility and an outpouring of aid.
sahel: Reports in March 2022 show militants are expanding and spreading out south of the Sahel.
sahel: By 1899 it came under British rule until granted independence at Egypt's behest in 1956.
sahel: "Strengthening Livelihoods in Sahelian West Africa: The Geography of Development and Underdevelopment in a Peripheral Region." Geographische Rundschau International Edition, 4(4): 44–50.
sahel: Species of acacia are the dominant trees, with Acacia tortilis the most common, along with Senegalia senegal and Senegalia laeta.
sahel: The Sahel is experiencing more severe weather due to climate change, exemplified by the extreme heatwave of March–April 2024 in Burkina Faso and Mali.
sahel: Meanwhile, governments in the region have shifted their alliances from Western nations to Russia and China, relying on paramilitary groups like the Africa Corps (formerly Wagner) for security assistance, though with limited success.
sahel: This catastrophe led to the founding of the International Fund for Agricultural Development.
sahel: Less phonetic variation exists between the vowels /ø/, /ə/, and /e/ among French speakers in Burkina Faso and Niger; /e/ characterizes the majority of these pronunciations.
sahel: doi:10.1002/joc.1083.
sahel: (August 1987).
sahel: Annual rainfall varies from around 100–200 mm (4–8 in) in the north of the Sahel to around 700–1,000 mm (28–39 in) in the south.
sahel: The climate is typically hot, sunny, dry and somewhat windy all year long.
sahel: As of 2024, a wave of new military juntas in Africa, favoring Russian mercenaries over Western forces and UN peacekeepers, has intensified violence.
sahel: The Sahel includes parts of Senegal, Mauritania, Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Chad, Sudan and Eritrea, where French is employed to varying degrees.
sahel: "Sahelian Acacia savanna".
sahel: Archived from the original on 8 March 2010.
sahel: Nonetheless, the region has sustained very high human birthrates, resulting in a rapid increase in population.
sahel: The Sahel has a high to very high sunshine duration year-round, between 2,400 hours (about 55% of the daylight hours) and 3,600 hours (more than 80% of the daylight hours).
sahel: World Wildlife Fund, ed.
sahel: This is a common area for dust storms, occurring on average on 100 days every year.
sahel: On 23 March 2010, a major sandstorm hit Mauritania, Senegal, The Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Guinea, and inland Sierra Leone.
sahel: In Western Sahel, polygamy and child marriage are common.
sahel: The 1960s saw a large increase in rainfall in the region, making the northern drier region more accessible.
sahel: Representing a climatic and ecological transition zone with hot semi-desert and steppe conditions, the Sahel region borders the more humid Sudanian savannas to its south and the dry Sahara desert to the north.
sahel: Carthage, Tunisia: Sahara and Sahel Observatory.
sahel: The griot tradition of the Sahel also may have influenced talking blues, and by extension, hip hop.
sahel: These traditions—which were sometimes permitted by plantation owners who feared drums—became tools of rebellion, evolving into the blues.
sahel: The blue note—a hallmark of blues music and rhythm and blues characterised by flattened thirds, fifths, or sevenths—has deep roots in the musical traditions of the Sahel region of West Africa, and so genres descending from the blues have a strong Sahelian influence.
sahel: Atlas of Land Cover Maps: Sahel and West Africa (PDF).
sahel: The Sahel mainly receives a low to very low amount of precipitation annually.
sahel: The precipitation is also extremely irregular, and varies considerably from season to season.
sahel: Ellis, William S.
sahel: The topography of the Sahel is mainly flat; most of the region lies between 200 and 400 meters (660 and 1,310 ft) in elevation.
sahel: The least humid places have a relative humidity under 35%.
sahel: In addition, the horses and camels were susceptible to the humidity and diseases of the tropics.
sahel: Charters found that many Sahelian slaves were from Muslim cultures, favouring stringed, melodic, and solo melismatic singing, which differed from the drum-based music of other African regions, who generally favoured drumming and group chants.
sahel: The Sahel rarely experiences cold temperatures.
sahel: The US response came after Human Rights Watch released documents regarding the same on 1 July.
sahel: Niger reported on 14 July that diarrhoea, starvation, gastroenteritis, malnutrition and respiratory diseases had sickened or killed many children.
sahel: That record was broken the next day, when Bilma hit 48.2 °C (118.8 °F).
sahel: The relative humidity in the steppe is low to very low, often between 10% and 25% during the dry season and between 25% and 75% during the rainy season.
sahel: National Geographic.
sahel: World Wildlife Fund.
sahel: National Geographic Society.
sahel: East Saharan woodlands).
sahel: The Sahel's climate is similar to, but less extreme than, the climate of the Sahara desert located just to the north.
sahel: The cloud cover is low to very low.
sahel: The apical trill pronunciation of /r/, once common in metropolitan France, continues in West Africa despite the more common use of the uvular trill pronunciation by standard French speakers.
sahel: OCLC 643483454.
sahel: This ecoregion is also called the Sahelian acacia savanna in honour of its most prominent and very drought tolerant genus of tree.
sahel: The hottest temperature recorded in Sudan was reached on 25 June, at 49.6 °C (121.3 °F) in Dongola, breaking a record set in 1987.
sahel: Loanwords and phonetic irregularities derived from local languages have permeated Sahel French:
sahel: This may be due to global warming, which can cause changes that may result in changes in large-scale weather patterns, such as increased stronger monsoons, in turn caused by a warmer Atlantic Ocean.
sahel: The French territories in the Sahel were decolonised in 1960.
sahel: It is the transition zone between the more humid Sudanian savannas to its south and the drier Sahara to the north.
sahel: Several isolated plateaus and mountain ranges rise from the Sahel (e.g.
sahel: The larger Sahelian kingdoms emerged from 750 AD and erected several large cities in the Niger valley region, including Timbuktu, Gao and Djenné.
sahel: From 1951 to 2004, the Sahel experienced some of the most consistent and severe droughts in Africa.
sahel: The Woodless Construction project was introduced in Sahel in 1980 by the Development Workshop, achieving since then a high social impact in the region.
sahel: In the northern part of the Sahel, areas of desert shrub, including Panicum turgidum and Aristida sieberiana, alternate with areas of grassland and savanna.
sahel: In contrast, the more percussion-based Afro-Brazilian music and Afro-Cuban music have more of a southern, coastal West African, Central African, and Bantu influence, where the blue note is absent; this originated from non-Muslim slaves, who generally favoured drums and group chants.
sahel: The Sahel spans 5,900 km (3,670 mi) from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Red Sea in the east, in a belt several hundred to a thousand kilometers (c.
sahel: Due to the forest-savanna mosaic to their south, the Sahelian states were hindered from expanding into the north Akan state of the Bono state and Yoruba peoples, as mounted warriors were all but useless in the forests.
sahel: The steppe has a very long, prevailing dry season and a short rainy season.
sahel: Bibcode:2004IJCli..24.1323D.
sahel: These groups sustain their operations through ransom kidnappings, illicit gold mining, and drug trafficking, with the Sahel now a major route for cocaine smuggling from South America to Europe.
sahel: Lagha CHEGROUCHE, "L'arc géopolitique de l'énergie : le croissant énergétique", in Le Soir d'Algérie, 19/12/2010 (in French)
Khatim Kherraz; Nabil Ben Khatra (2019).
sahel: This event was intensified by a 1.2 °C global temperature increase from human activities.
sahel: During the "coldest period", the average high temperatures are between 27 and 33 °C (81 and 91 °F) and the average low temperatures are between 15 and 21 °C (59 and 70 °F).
sahel: Brussels: European Parliament (DG for External Policies).
sahel: WildWorld Ecoregion Profile.
sahel: The Sahel region (; from Arabic  ساحل sāḥil ([ˈsaːħil]); coast, shore), or Sahelian acacia savanna, is a biogeographical region in Africa.
sahel: Most of the rain usually falls during four to six months in the middle of the year, while the other months may remain absolutely dry.
sahel: The sunshine duration in the Sahel approaches desert levels, and is comparable to that in the Arabian Desert, for example, even though the Sahel is only a steppe and not a desert.
sahel: Hadfield (2012) "A Coherent EU Strategy for the Sahel".
sahel: On 26 July, the heat reached near-record levels over Chad and Niger, and in northern Niger about 20 people reportedly died of dehydration by 27 July.
sahel: This climate change caused lakes and rivers to shrink significantly and caused increasing desertification.
sahel: Terrestrial Ecoregions.
sahel: Although there is evidence of its use in nearly every Sahel country, research suggests that French is more often a Lingua franca of business among the elite and educated classes than a conduit of practical everyday dialogue.
sahel: According to the BBC, the Sahel region has become the global epicenter of terrorism, accounting for over half of all terrorism-related deaths, according to the Global Terrorism Index (GTI).
sahel: S2CID 6955930..
sahel: The new military junta appealed for international food aid and took serious steps to call on overseas help.
sahel: The historian Sylviane Diouf and ethnomusicologist Gerhard Kubik identify Islamic music as an influence on blues music.
sahel: Major dust storms are a frequent occurrence as well.
sahel: "The recent Sahel drought is real" (PDF).
sahel: Marrah Mountains, Aïr Mountains, Ennedi Plateau), but are designated as separate ecoregions because their flora and fauna are distinct from the surrounding lowlands (e.g.
sahel: One megadrought lasted from 1450 to 1700, 250 years.
sahel: Traditionally, most of the people in the Sahel have been semi-nomads, farming and raising livestock in a system of transhumance.
sahel: For example, Niamey, Niger has 3,082 hours of bright sunshine; Gao, Mali has near 3,385 hours of sunshine; Timbuktu, Mali has 3,409 sunny hours, and N'Djamena, Chad has 3,205 hours of sunlight.
sahel: Although geographically located in the tropics, the Sahel does not have a tropical climate.
sahel: The violence is increasingly spilling into neighboring countries such as Togo and Benin, raising concerns about the broader destabilization of West Africa.
