sales_tax: The Roman emperor Augustus collected funds for his military aerarium in AD 6 with a one percent general sales tax, known as the centesima rerum venalium (hundredth of the value of everything sold).
sales_tax: The tax is otherwise charged on each item sold to purchasers without such a certificate and who are under the jurisdiction of the taxing authority.
sales_tax: However, the new tax is selective rather than general, applying only to a specific service.
sales_tax: See Comparison with sales tax for key differences.
sales_tax: Designing invoices to reduce the taxable portion of a sale transaction.
sales_tax: Unlike previous federal excise taxes, this tax is collected directly from the consumer by the seller and based on the sale price rather than a quantity.
sales_tax: However, while consumers are technically supposed to pay a sales tax when it comes to cross state border transactions, the practicality of enforcing it is impossible.
sales_tax: A purchaser who is not an end-user is usually issued a "resale certificate" by the taxing authority and required to provide the certificate (or its ID number) to a seller at the point of purchase, along with a statement that the item is for resale.
sales_tax: Whether the Streamlined Sales Tax can actually be applied to remote sales ultimately depends upon Congressional support, because the 1992 Quill v.
sales_tax: The Congressional Budget Office estimated that uncollected use taxes on remote sales in 2003 could be as high as $20.4 billion.
sales_tax: Eleven more states enacted sales tax laws during the 1960s, with Vermont as the last in 1969.
sales_tax: Other provinces have either a Provincial Sales Tax (PST) or the Harmonized Sales Tax (HST), which is a single, blended combination of the GST and PST.
sales_tax: Five states currently do not have general sales taxes: Alaska, Delaware, Montana, New Hampshire, and Oregon.
sales_tax: In an effort to reduce the burden of compliance with the tax laws of multiple jurisdictions, the Streamlined Sales Tax Project was organized in March 2000.
sales_tax: In a report issued in 2003, the Congressional Budget Office warned of the economic burden of a "multiplicity of tax systems, particularly for smaller firms".
sales_tax: Cooperative efforts in this project by 44 state governments and the District of Columbia eventually produced the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement in 2010.
sales_tax: Tax cascading is avoided by applying the tax only to the difference ("value added") between the price paid by the first purchaser and the price paid by each subsequent purchaser of the same item.
sales_tax: Different states have their own sales tax regulations, for example, some states use their standard sales taxes law for the digital goods, and some of the states have specific laws for them.
sales_tax: Securities turnover excise tax, a tax on the trade of securities.
sales_tax: The effect that a sales tax has on consumer and producer behavior is rather large.
sales_tax: Norway, Denmark and Sweden have higher VATs at 25%, Hungary has the highest at 27% although reduced rates are used in some cases, as for groceries, art, books and newspapers.
sales_tax: Other types of sales taxes, or similar taxes:
sales_tax: In Baton Rouge, Louisiana, the tax is 9.45%, which is 4.45% state & 5% local.
sales_tax: Proper supporting detail, including exemption and resale certificates, invoices and other records must be available to defend the company in the event of a sales and use tax audit.
sales_tax: This limitation was defined as part of the Dormant Commerce Clause by the Supreme Court in the 1967 decision on National Bellas Hess v.
sales_tax: Unless the vendor has a physical location, or nexus, within a state, the vendor cannot be required to collect tax for that state.
sales_tax: Sales tax amounts, measured in drachmas at a rate of one percent, were recorded in a separate column of a record prepared for the auction of 16 slaves in Piraeus, Greece in 415 BC.
sales_tax: When a tax on goods or services is paid to a governing body directly by a consumer, it is usually called a use tax.
sales_tax: Generally, there are four types of electronic commerce: intermediaries, retail, business-to-business and media, all of which are affected by consumer response to sales tax.
sales_tax: Globally, conventional sales taxes are increasingly being replaced by value-added taxes (VAT), which now account for approximately 20% of worldwide tax revenue.
sales_tax: As e-commerce sales have grown in recent years, noncompliance with use tax has had a growing impact on state revenues.
sales_tax: Nearby Athens collected duties on the import and export of commodities, recorded at a rate of two percent in 399 BC.
sales_tax: Strictly speaking, only the retailer is responsible for the payment of the tax; when a retailer adds this tax to the purchase price, the consumer is merely reimbursing the retailer by contractual agreement.
sales_tax: A number of observers and commentators have argued, so far unsuccessfully, for a Congressional adoption of this physical presence nexus test.
sales_tax: Investopedia defines a regressive tax as "[a] tax that takes a larger percentage from low-income people than from high-income people.
sales_tax: Sales and use taxes in California are made up of various state, county and city taxes.
sales_tax: At that period of time, Athens did not rely on government agencies to collect its taxes; the responsibility was delegated to the highest bidder, a practice known as tax farming.
sales_tax: To combat sales loss, a city must be able to import consumers to buy goods locally.
sales_tax: Periodic review of record-keeping procedures related to sales and use tax.
sales_tax: Business-to-Business transactions will be placed in different circumstances by whether the case will be taxed in the US.
sales_tax: The state tax is "imposed upon all retailers" for the "privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail".
sales_tax: FairTax, a proposed federal sales tax, intended to replace the US federal income tax.
sales_tax: New facilities.
sales_tax: As a result, online retail stores have had a distinct advantage in that they do not have to charge a sales tax.
sales_tax: The first broad-based, general sales taxes in the United States were enacted by Kentucky and Mississippi in 1930, although Kentucky repealed its sales tax in 1936.
sales_tax: They have been criticized for their "cascading" or "pyramiding" effect, in which an item is taxed more than once as it makes its way from production to final retail sale.
sales_tax: In Maryland, for example, a delivery charge is exempt if it is stated separately from handling and other taxable charges.
sales_tax: Additionally, 38 states allow local sales taxes, which can significantly increase the total rate.
sales_tax: A sales tax is a tax paid to a governing body for the sales of certain goods and services.
sales_tax: Businesses should consider whether a temporary storage exemption applies to merchandise initially accepted in a jurisdiction with a higher tax rate.
sales_tax: With higher taxes, more consumers are starting to reconsider where they shop, according to a study conducted in Minnesota and Wisconsin, where the sales tax was raised on cigarettes.
sales_tax: An attempt to require a Delaware e-commerce vendor to collect North Dakota tax was overturned by the court in the 1992 decision on Quill Corp.
sales_tax: How sales taxes work across the U.S.
sales_tax: To avoid altering demand, the producer will either avoid the tax if possible by relocating their fulfillment centers to areas without a high sales tax or they will internalize the cost of the sales tax by charging consumers the same price but paying for the tax from their profits.
sales_tax: That has led many economists to examine consumer sensitivity when it comes to sales taxes.
sales_tax: This means that it hits lower-income individuals harder".
sales_tax: In some jurisdictions of the United States, there are multiple levels of government which each impose a sales tax.
sales_tax: Twenty-two other states began imposing general sales taxes later in the 1930s, followed by six in the 1940s and five in the 1950s.
sales_tax: However, excise taxes were applied to so many specific commodities during the Civil War that they functioned collectively as a general sales tax.
sales_tax: Delivery location.
sales_tax: involves 45 states that impose a statewide sales tax.
sales_tax: Consumers are responsible for declaring these purchases in the same filing as their annual state income tax, but it is rare for them to do so.
sales_tax: Conventional or retail sales tax is levied on the sale of a good to its final end-user and is charged every time that item is sold retail.
sales_tax: Kentucky re-enacted its sales tax law in 1960.
sales_tax: The federal government's per-gallon tax of gasoline (beginning at one cent per gallon in 1932) and per-package tax of cigarettes ($1.01 per package since 2009) are the most well-known current sales taxes administered by the federal government.
sales_tax: Over 140 countries have adopted VAT systems, leaving the United States as one of the few nations that continues to utilize a conventional sales tax model.
sales_tax: North Dakota.
sales_tax: Alberta, Yukon, Northwest Territories, and Nunavut have no territorial sales taxes, so only the GST is collected.
sales_tax: Although the United States government has never used a general sales tax, an excise tax on whiskey enacted in 1791 was one of its first fund raising efforts.
sales_tax: The unpopularity of this tax with farmers on the western frontier led to the Whiskey Rebellion in 1794.
sales_tax: Uncollected use tax on remote sales was projected to run as high as $54.8 billion for 2011.
sales_tax: An exception is out-of-state purchase of automobiles.
sales_tax: While some researchers have concluded a high elasticity of online purchase probability with respect to sales tax at around 2.3, others have found smaller figures of around 0.5.
sales_tax: A value-added tax (VAT) collected on goods and services is related to a sales tax.
sales_tax: Countries in Western Europe, especially in Scandinavia, have some of the world's highest valued-added taxes.
sales_tax: Jurisdictions with no sales tax or broad exemptions for certain types of business operations would be an obvious consideration in selecting a site for a new manufacturing plant, warehouse, or administrative office.
sales_tax: Effects of higher sales tax were not shown immediately in sales, but about six months after the taxes were raised.
sales_tax: That means that enforcing an online sales tax would have negligible effects on aggregate sales.
sales_tax: Because the rate of a sales tax does not change based on a person's income or wealth, sales taxes are generally considered regressive.
sales_tax: Congress has the authority to enact interstate taxes.
sales_tax: Use tax is levied upon the "storage, use, or other consumption in this state of tangible personal property".
sales_tax: Value added tax (VAT), in which tax is charged on all sales, thus avoiding the need for a system of resale certificates.
sales_tax: Enforcement of the tax on remote sales, however, is difficult.
sales_tax: Canada uses a value-added federal Goods and Services Tax with a rate of 5 percent, effective since January 1, 2008.
sales_tax: Excise taxes, applied to a narrow range of products, such as gasoline or alcohol, usually imposed on the producer or wholesaler rather than on the retail seller.
sales_tax: This agreement establishes standards necessary for simplified and uniform sales tax laws.
sales_tax: High sales taxes can be used to relieve property taxes but only when property taxes are lowered subsequently.
sales_tax: It is difficult to enforce the taxes on electronic commerce especially for digital goods that trade across different countries.
sales_tax: That is particularly important for an item to be sold or used in another jurisdiction with a lower tax rate or an exemption for that item.
sales_tax: The 2010 health care reform law imposed a 10 percent federal sales tax on indoor tanning services, effective July 1, 2010.
sales_tax: Usually, laws allow the seller to collect funds for the tax from the consumer at the point of purchase.
sales_tax: However, it has been suggested that any regressive effect of a sales tax could be mitigated, e.g., by excluding rent, or by exempting "necessary" items, such as food, clothing and medicines.
sales_tax: Even states with moderate statewide rates can have high combined state and local rates.
sales_tax: Federal and state sales taxes in the United States remained selective, rather than general, through the 19th century.
sales_tax: If local sales taxes are too high, consumers will travel to other areas to purchase goods.
sales_tax: A regressive tax is generally a tax that is applied uniformly.
sales_tax: These paintings describe the collection of tax for specific commodities, such as cooking oil.
sales_tax: When consumers purchase goods from out-of-state (in which case the seller owes no tax to California) the consumer is required to pay a "use tax" identical to the sales tax.
sales_tax: The price elasticity of demand for online products is high, meaning that consumers are price sensitive and their demand will significantly change with small changes in price.
sales_tax: For example, sales tax in Chicago (Cook County), Illinois is 10.25%, consisting of 6.25% state, 1.25% city, 1.75% county and 1% regional transportation authority.
sales_tax: Chicago also has the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority tax on food and beverage of 1% (which means dining out is taxed at 11.25%).
sales_tax: North Dakota decision determined that only the U.S.
sales_tax: Then, use tax is collected by the state as part of registering the vehicle in California.
sales_tax: Electronic commerce goods are usually not taxed the same especially across the stats in the US.
sales_tax: Sales tax reduction or mitigation strategies can include the following:
sales_tax: Without proper documentation, a seller may be held liable for tax not collected from a buyer.
sales_tax: This means that the tax burden lies primarily with the producer.
sales_tax: The Roman sales tax was later reduced to a half percent (ducentesima) by Tiberius, then abolished completely by Caligula.
sales_tax: The intermediaries were affected by the retail sales tax since it provides platforms for transitions between different parties (such as the Amazon marketplace).
sales_tax: In Los Angeles it is 9.5%, which is 7.25% state & 2.25% county.
sales_tax: As of December 2010, 24 states had passed legislation conforming with the agreement.
sales_tax: These categories were affected varying degrees.
sales_tax: Turnover tax, similar to a sales tax, but applied to intermediate and possibly capital goods as an indirect tax.
sales_tax: Use taxes are commonly imposed by states with a sales tax but are usually enforced only for large items such as automobiles and boats.
sales_tax: Use tax, imposed directly on the consumer of goods purchased without sales tax, generally items purchased from a vendor not under the jurisdiction of the taxing authority (such as a vendor in another state).
sales_tax: For a business operating in several jurisdictions, choosing the best location in which to take delivery can reduce or eliminate the sales tax liability.
sales_tax: The Internet Tax Freedom Act of 1998 established a commission to study the possibility of internet taxation, but the commission did not make any formal recommendations.
sales_tax: Studies that have shown this correlation were conducted in Georgia by cities raising sales tax and lowering property taxes.
sales_tax: Often, laws provide for the exemption of certain goods or services from sales and use tax, such as food, education, and medicines.
sales_tax: Sales to businesses that later resell the goods are not charged the tax.
sales_tax: It can be separated into four categories: retail, intermediaries, business-to-business and media (Goldfarb 2008).
