screenwriter: A screenwriter becomes credible by having work that is recognized, which gives the writer the opportunity to earn a higher income.
screenwriter: The writer writes the script (original or someone else's idea) without being paid, and, subsequently, tries to sell it.
screenwriter: These can include short films, feature-length films, television programs, television commercials, video games, and the growing area of online web series.
screenwriter: No education is required to be a professional screenwriter, but good storytelling abilities and imagination give aspiring screenwriters an advantage.
screenwriter: Pay can vary dramatically for a non-unionized screenwriter.
screenwriter: None of these movies has been produced so far.
screenwriter: Sometimes they come on as advisors, or if they are established, as a producer.
screenwriter: Option: If a script is not purchased, it may be optioned.
screenwriter: Most professional screenwriters in the U.S.
screenwriter: Berkeley:  University of California Press,  1986.
screenwriter: 2005: Terry Rossio and Bill Marsilii are paid $3 million against $5 million for the script of Déjà Vu.
screenwriter: Berkeley:  University of California Press, 1997.
screenwriter: If screenwriters are competing for an open assignment, more established writers usually win the assignments.
screenwriter: Backstory 3: Interviews with Screenwriters of the 60s.
screenwriter: by Doug Richardson and Rick Jaffa, both of which sold for a million dollars.
screenwriter: Feature assignment: The writer writes the script on assignment under contract with a studio, production company, or individual.
screenwriter: An option is money paid in exchange for the right (the "option") to produce—and therefore to purchase outright—a screenplay, treatment, or other work within a certain period.
screenwriter: Online platforms such as WriteSeen have emerged to help screenwriters showcase their scripts, pitch projects, and receive industry feedback in digitally timestamped environments.
screenwriter: Against: A word used to describe a script's unproduced price relative to its value if approved for production—for example, if a script is sold for $300,000, but the writer gains an extra $200,000 if it leads to production, the screenwriter's salary is described as "$300,000 against $500,000".
screenwriter: Further separating professional and amateur screenwriters is that professionals are usually represented by a talent agency.
screenwriter: Although many scripts are sold each year, many do not make it into production because the number of scripts that are purchased every year exceeds the number of professional directors that are working in the film and TV industry.
screenwriter: They are referred to as "exclusive" assignments or "pitched" assignments.
screenwriter: In most cases, a film project is initiated by a screenwriter.
screenwriter: $1 million:
screenwriter: Hollywood has shifted writers onto and off projects since its earliest days, and the assignment of credits is not always straightforward or complete, which poses a problem for film study.
screenwriter: 1984: Shane Black sells the screenplay to Lethal Weapon for $250,000.
screenwriter: The partnerships often pitch their project to investors or others in a position to further a project.
screenwriter: The most experienced WGA members have reported up to $4,000,000 compensation for a first draft.
screenwriter: When word is put out about a project that a film studio, production company, or producer wants done, they are referred to as "open" assignments.
screenwriter: Multi-step deals, where the writer is signed on for more than the first draft (typically including a rewrite) can earn a screenwriter more, with experienced WGA members earning up to $5,000,000 for their work.
screenwriter: These screenwriter-specific employment agencies work to handle the business side of the screenwriting job, typically taking on legal, financial, and other important representative roles for the screenwriter.
screenwriter: McGilligan, Patrick.
screenwriter: Many screenwriters start their careers doing speculative work ("work on spec"), practicing their screenwriting with no guaranteed financial compensation.
screenwriter: In the silent era, screenwriters were denoted by terms such as photoplaywright, photoplay writer, photoplay dramatist, and screen playwright.
screenwriter: Amateur screenwriters will often pursue this work as "writers in training," leading these spec scripts to often go uncredited or come from unknown screenwriters.
screenwriter: Epsilon (unproduced) by Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick ("Sources say the Sony deal closed in the $1 million range.")
The Imitation Game by Graham Moore, at "seven figures" to Warner Brothers.
screenwriter: These professional screenwriters rarely work for free.
screenwriter: This was followed by nuclear-terrorist technothriller The Ultimatum by Laurence Dworet and Robert Roy Pool, and WWII action comedy Hell Bent...
screenwriter: Screenwriters who often pitch new projects, whether original or an adaptation, often do not have to worry about competing for assignments and are often more successful.
screenwriter: Screenwriting is typically a contracted freelance profession, not a hired position.
screenwriter: Déjà Vu by Terry Rossio and Bill Marsilii.
screenwriter: If one of these scripts is sold, it is called a spec script.
screenwriter: A screenwriter can also be approached and personally offered a writing assignment.
screenwriter: 1990: Kathy McWorter, who was promoted by her agent as a 21-year-old wunderkind, though in fact she was 28 years old, sells her sex comedy The Cheese Stands Alone for $1 million.
screenwriter: A screenwriter (also called scriptwriter, scribe, or scenarist) is a person who practices the craft of writing for visual mass media, known as screenwriting.
screenwriter: There are a legion of would-be screenwriters who attempt to enter the film industry, but it often takes years of trial and error, failure, and gritty persistence to achieve success.
screenwriter: In some cases the script is based on an existing property, such as a book or person's life story, which is adapted by the screenwriter.
screenwriter: When a screenwriter finishes a project and sells it to a film studio, production company, TV network, or producer, they often have to continue networking, mainly with directors or executives, and push to have their projects "chosen" and turned into films or TV shows.
screenwriter: The initiator of the project gets the exclusive writing assignment.
screenwriter: As more films are produced independently (outside the studio system), many up-and-coming screenwriters are turning to pitch fests, screenplay contests, and independent development services to gain access to established and credible independent producers.
screenwriter: Backstory: Interviews with Screenwriters of Hollywood's Golden Age.
screenwriter: Milk Money by John Mattson ($1.1 million, outright purchase).
screenwriter: Rewriting: The writer rewrites someone else's script for pay.
screenwriter: Some screenwriters also direct.
screenwriter: Backstory 2: Interviews with Screenwriters of the 1940s and 1950s.
screenwriter: The writer pitches their "take", much like they would an original pitch.
screenwriter: In Writing Screenplays that Sell, Michael Hague writes, "Screenplays have become, for the last half of [the twentieth] century, what the Great American Novel was for the first half.
screenwriter: Selznick paid him $3,500 a day (about $47,400 in 2025).
screenwriter: are unionized and are represented by the Writers Guild of America (WGA).
screenwriter: Open assignments are more competitive.
screenwriter: Both deals are records, respectively, for outlines and romantic comedy specs.
screenwriter: The WGA is the final arbiter on awarding writing credit for projects under its jurisdiction.
screenwriter: Non-union screenwriters can also work for a salary, but will typically earn less than a unionized screenwriter.
screenwriter: $2 million:
screenwriter: Berkeley:  University of California Press,  1991.
screenwriter: Although membership in the WGA is recommended, it is not required of a screenwriter to join.
screenwriter: 1949: Ben Hecht is paid $10,000 a week (about $135,315 in 2025).
screenwriter: Spec script: Short for "speculative" or "on speculation" as in; "She wrote her script on spec".
screenwriter: Once the script is sold, the writer has only the rights that were agreed with the purchaser.
screenwriter: 1992: Sherry Lansing is hired to run Paramount and spends $3.6 million in less than a week, $2.5 million for a two-page outline of Jade by Joe Eszterhas, and $1.1 million (about $1,968,366 in 2018) for the script Milk Money by John Mattson.
screenwriter: If interest in a script begins to fade, a project can go dead.
screenwriter: Closet writers who used to dream of the glory of getting into print now dream of seeing their story on the big or small screen."
screenwriter: Pitch: The writer holds a five- to twenty-minute presentation of the film to buyers in a short meeting.
screenwriter: The WGA also looks upon and verifies film copyright materials.
screenwriter: Many development executives are now working independently to incubate their own pet projects.
screenwriter: Claims David O.
screenwriter: For instance, studio management may have a complaint that the motivations of the characters are unclear or that the dialogue is weak.
screenwriter: Arthur & Lancelot (unproduced) by David Dobkin.
screenwriter: The median compensation for a first draft from a first time screenwriter is $100,000, while the most experienced members have a median compensation of $450,000.
screenwriter: They have 14 different affiliates across various nations who collectively work to verify original authorship, fight for fair compensation, and enforce copyright.
screenwriter: In his book Talking Pictures, Richard Corliss discussed the historian's dilemma: "A writer may be given screen credit for work he didn't do (as with Sidney Buchman on Holiday), or be denied credit for work he did do (as with Sidney Buchman on The Awful Truth)."
screenwriter: Other notable screenwriters' unions include the Writers' Guild of Great Britain, representing screenwriters in the UK, and La Guilde Française des Scénaristes, representing screenwriters in France.
