season: These observances are often declared "official" within their respective areas by the local or national media, even when the weather or climate is contradictory.
season: Monsoon or rainy season, lasting from June to September.
season: In the tropical parts of Australia in the northern parts of Queensland, Western Australia, and the Northern Territory,  wet and dry seasons are observed in addition to or in place of temperate season names.
season: The Bengali Calendar is similar but differs in start and end times.
season: The traditional "harvest season" begins by early September.
season: In India, from ancient times to the present day, six seasons or Ritu based on south Asian religious or cultural calendars are recognised and identified for purposes such as agriculture and trade.
season: the seasons do not begin on fixed dates and must be determined by observation and are known only after the fact,
the seasons begin on different dates in different parts of the country.
season: For the other half of the year, the same happens, but in the Southern Hemisphere instead of the Northern, with the maximum around December 21.
season: Deciduous tree buds begin to swell.
season: The length of these seasons is not uniform because of Earth's elliptical orbit and its different speeds along that orbit.
season: Also at that moment, both the North Pole and the South Pole of the Earth are just on the terminator, and hence day and night are equally divided between the two hemispheres.
season: Deciduous trees are bare and fallen leaves begin to decay.
season: Luchian School, Bacau, Romania, Seasonal Variations of the Bird Species, ref.
season: When the ICZ is north of the Equator, the northern tropics experience their wet season while the southern tropics have their dry season.
season: It has the following seasons or ritu:
season: Because of this, the (proleptic) Gregorian calendar agrees with the Julian calendar in the third century of the Christian era, rather than in the fourth.
season: The Northern Hemisphere experiences most direct sunlight during May, June, and July (thus the traditional celebration of Midsummer in June), as the hemisphere faces the Sun.
season: The North Pole is in the Arctic Ocean, and thus its temperature extremes are buffered by the water.
season: In Australia, some tribes have up to eight seasons in a year, as do the Sami people in Scandinavia.
season: The following diagram shows the relation between the line of solstice and the line of apsides of Earth's elliptical orbit.
season: The Odia Calendar is similar but differs in start and end times.
season: Seasonal weather fluctuations (changes) also depend on factors such as proximity to oceans or other large bodies of water, currents in those oceans, El Niño/ENSO and other oceanic cycles, and prevailing winds.
season: These are mainly a matter of custom and not generally proclaimed by governments north or south of the equator for civil purposes.
season: Some examples of historical importance are the ancient Egyptian seasons—flood, growth, and low water—which were previously defined by the former annual flooding of the Nile in Egypt.
season: The Gregorian calendar is designed to keep the March equinox no later than 21 March as accurately as is practical.
season: The Earth's orbit exhibits approximate axial parallelism, maintaining its direction toward Polaris (the "North Star") year-round.
season: Estival (high summer): Begins June in most temperate climates.
season: The heights of these seasons occur up to 7 weeks later because of seasonal lag.
season: There is no noticeable change in the amount of sunlight at different times of the year.
season: People living farther to the east (Asia and Australia), whose local times are in advance, see the astronomical seasons apparently start later; for example, in Tonga (UTC+13), an equinox occurred on September 24, 1999, a date on which the equinox will not fall again until 2103.
season: So, if a change in daily floral and animal events can be observed, the season is changing.
season: Summer or pre-monsoon season, lasting from March to May.
season: Currently, the most common equinox and solstice dates are March 20, June 21, September 22 or 23, and December 21; the four-year average slowly shifts to earlier times as a century progresses.
season: These periods are collectively known in English as "solar terms" or "solar breaths".
season: He gives "the eighth day to the Kalends of January" (December 25) as the date of the winter solstice, though actually it occurred on the 22nd or 23rd at that time.
season: Compared to axial parallelism and axial tilt, other factors contribute little to seasonal temperature changes.
season: In the weeks surrounding 21 June, in the northern polar region, the Sun is at its highest elevation, appearing to circle the sky there without going below the horizon.
season: Storm seasons or polar winter-weather conditions can inhibit surface warships at sea.
season: Trees in full leaf.
season: Minor variation in the direction of the axis, known as axial precession, takes place over the course of 26,000 years, and therefore is not noticeable to modern human civilization.
season: This pattern reverses when the ICZ migrates to a position south of the Equator.
season: As a result, the amount of precipitation tends to vary more dramatically than the average temperature or daylight hours.
season: The major exception is in the tropics where, as already noted, the winter season is not observed.
season: These effects vary with latitude and with proximity to bodies of water.
season: As mentioned above, Varro wrote that spring, summer, autumn, and winter start on the 23rd day of the Sun's passage through Aquarius, Taurus, Leo, and Scorpio, respectively, and that (in the Julian Calendar) these days were February 7, May 9, August 11, and November 10.
season: First light comes in late January because the sky has twilight, being a glow on the horizon, for increasing hours each day, for more than a month before the Sun first appears with its disc above the horizon.
season: Tree leaves in full color then turn brown and fall to the ground.
season: (This tilt is also known as "obliquity of the ecliptic".)
Regardless of the time of year, the Northern Hemisphere and Southern Hemisphere always experience opposite seasons.
season: Astronomical timing as the basis for designating the temperate seasons dates back at least to the Julian Calendar used by the ancient Romans.
season: In Thailand three seasons are recognised
season: He points out that the lengths are not equal, being 91 (in non-leap years), 94, 91, and 89 days for spring, summer, autumn, and winter, respectively.
season: At progressively higher latitudes, the maximum periods of "midnight sun" and "polar night" are progressively longer.
season: In the temperate and polar regions, seasons are marked by changes in the amount of sunlight, which in turn often causes cycles of dormancy in plants and hibernation in animals.
season: Temperatures average around 32–40 °C (90–104 °F) in most of the interior.
season: For example, prevernal crocus blooms typically appear as early as February in coastal areas of British Columbia, the British Isles, but generally do not appear until March or April in locations like the Midwestern United States and parts of eastern Europe.
season: Calendar-based reckoning defines the seasons in relative rather than absolute terms, so the coldest quarter-year is considered winter even if floral activity is regularly observed during it, despite the traditional association of flowers with spring and summer.
season: Seasons often hold special significance for agrarian societies, whose lives revolve around planting and harvest times, and the change of seasons is often attended by ritual.
season: For example, the South Pole is in the middle of the continent of Antarctica and therefore a considerable distance from the moderating influence of the southern oceans.
season: Some calendars in South Asia use a six-season partition where the number of seasons between summer and winter can number from one to three.
season: Birds hatch and raise offspring.
season: The severity of seasonal change — the average temperature difference between summer and winter in location — will also change over time because the Earth's axial tilt fluctuates between 22.1 and 24.5 degrees.
season: The four seasons have been in use since at least Roman times, as in Rerum rusticarum of Varro Varro says that spring, summer, autumn, and winter start on the 23rd day of the sun's passage through Aquarius, Taurus, Leo, and Scorpio, respectively.
season: Ecologically speaking, a season is a period of the year in which only certain types of floral and animal events happen (e.g.: flowers bloom—spring; hedgehogs hibernate—winter).
season: For the southern hemisphere temperate zone, spring begins on 1 September, summer on 1 December, autumn on 1 March, and winter on 1 June.
season: The result is that the South Pole is consistently colder during the southern winter than the North Pole during the northern winter.
season: Each season's arrival is heralded not by a calendar date, but by environmental factors such as changing winds, flowering plants, temperature and migration patterns and lasts approximately two standard calendar months.
season: There is also across the Far East the related concept of a "plum rain" or rainy season, méiyǔ 梅雨 in Mandarin, jangma 장마 in Korean, tsuyu 梅雨 in Japanese.
season: Seasonal reckoning in the military of any country or region tends to be very fluid and based mainly on short to medium term weather conditions that are independent of the calendar.
season: In western and southern regions, the hottest month is April; for northern regions of India, May is the hottest month.
season: | California Academy of Sciences
Seasons
season: Rainy-season floods may make rivers temporarily impassable, and winter snow tends to block mountain passes.
season: Ecologists often use a six-season model for temperate climate regions which are not tied to any fixed calendar dates: prevernal, vernal, estival, serotinal, autumnal, and hibernal.
season: The Noongar people of South-West Western Australia recognise maar-keyen bonar, or six seasons.
season: Any noticeable intensification of southern winters and summers due to Earth's elliptical orbit is mitigated by the abundance of water in the Southern Hemisphere.
season: The seasonal cycle in the polar and temperate zones of one hemisphere is opposite to that of the other.
season: It is Earth's axial tilt that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during the summer months, which increases the solar flux.
season: The solar seasons change at the cross-quarter days, which are about 3–4 weeks earlier than the meteorological seasons and 6–7 weeks earlier than seasons starting at equinoxes and solstices.
season: Maris, Mihaela, St.
season: Around the March equinox, the Northern Hemisphere will be experiencing spring as the hours of daylight increase, and the Southern Hemisphere is experiencing autumn as daylight hours shorten.
season: These "astronomical" seasons are not of equal length, because of the elliptical nature of the orbit of the Earth, as discovered by Johannes Kepler.
season: Autumnal (autumn): Generally begins mid to late September.
season: Young birds reach maturity and join other adult birds preparing for autumn migration.
season: Nine years before he wrote, Julius Caesar had reformed the calendar, so Varro was able to assign the dates of February 7, May 9, August 11, and November 10 to the start of spring, summer, autumn, and winter.
season: The availability of ice-free or warm-water ports can make navies much more effective.
season: At the present time, the astronomical timing has winter starting at the winter solstice, spring at the spring equinox, and so on.
season: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) designates four climatological seasons:
season: For a few more weeks, "day" is marked by decreasing periods of twilight.
season: Most calendar-based partitions use a four-season model to demarcate the warmest and coldest seasons, which are further separated by two intermediate seasons.
season: Monsoon rains begin to recede from North India at the beginning of October.
season: Astronomically, the seasons are said to begin on Lichun (立春, "the start of spring") on about 4 February, Lixia (立夏) on about 6 May, Liqiu (立秋) on about 8 August, and Lidong (立冬) on about 8 November.
season: When it is summer in the Northern Hemisphere, it is winter in the Southern, and vice versa.
season: The dates are fixed at even intervals of months.
season: This shift is a full day in about 128 years (compensated mainly by the century "leap year" rules of the Gregorian calendar); as 2000 was a leap year, the current shift has been progressing since the beginning of the last century, when equinoxes and solstices were relatively late.
season: The precise timing of the seasons is determined by the exact times of the Sun reaching the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn for the solstices and the times of the Sun's transit over the equator for the equinoxes, or a traditional date close to these times.
season: The four seasons chūn (春), xià (夏), qiū (秋), and dōng (冬)—translated as "spring", "summer", "autumn", and "winter"—each center on the respective solstice or equinox.
season: Eventually, it does go below the horizon, for progressively longer periods each day until around the middle of October, when it disappears for the last time until the following February.
season: On Earth, seasons are the result of the axial parallelism of Earth's tilted orbit around the Sun.
season: On 6 April the Sun is perceived as rising at 0522 UTC and remains above the horizon until it sets below the horizon again on 6 September at 0335 UTC.
season: He then defines the seasons of autumn, winter, spring, and summer as starting half-way through these intervals.
season: Hibernal (winter): Begins December (mild temperate), November (cool temperate).
season: For approximately half of the year (from around March 20 to around September 22), the Northern Hemisphere tips toward the Sun, with the maximum amount occurring on about June 21.
season: Many tropical regions have two seasons: the rainy/wet/monsoon season and the dry season.
season: In Finland, "permanently" is defined as when the mean daily averaged temperature remains above or below the defined limit for seven consecutive days.
season: Between this effect and the shorter daylight hours, the axial tilt of the Earth accounts for most of the seasonal variation in climate in both hemispheres.
season: The year's coldest months are December and January, when temperatures average around 10–15 °C (50–59 °F) in the northwest; temperatures rise as one proceeds toward the equator, peaking around 20–25 °C (68–77 °F) in mainland India's southeast.
season: Thus Russia, historically navally constrained when confined to using Arkhangelsk (before the 18th century) and even Kronstadt, has particular interests in maintaining and in preserving access to Baltiysk, Vladivostok, and Sevastopol.
season: Because of seasonal lag due to thermal absorption and release by the oceans, regions with a continental climate, which predominate in the Northern Hemisphere, often consider these four dates to be the start of the seasons as in the diagram, with the cross-quarter days considered seasonal midpoints.
season: The calendar is therefore framed to prevent the astronomical equinox wandering onto 22 March.
season: The beginning of summer is defined as when the temperature permanently rises above +10 °C, autumn as when the temperature permanently falls below +10 °C, and winter as when the temperature permanently falls below 0 °C.
season: (In Sweden the number of days ranges from 5 to 7 depending on the season.) This implies two things:
season: Winter, occurring from December to February.
season: This also means that in many years of the twentieth century, the dates March 21, June 22, September 23, and December 22 were much more common, so older books teach (and older people may still remember) these dates.
season: For the Southern Hemisphere, it is instead in November, December, and January.
season: The traditional calendar in China has 4 seasons based on 24 periods, twelve of which are called zhōngqi and twelve of which are known as jiéqi.
season: This was the case with the seasons described by the Roman scholar Varro (see above).
season: Thus, the day of greatest insolation is designated "midsummer" as noted in William Shakespeare's play A Midsummer Night's Dream, which is set on the summer solstice.
season: "Seasons" can also be dictated by the timing of important ecological events such as hurricane season, tornado season, and wildfire season.
season: The effect of axial tilt is observable as the change in day length and the altitude of the Sun at solar noon (the Sun's culmination) during the year.
season: South India typically receives more rainfall.
season: This is one of the primary reasons for the Earth's seasons, as illustrated by the diagram to the right.
season: This is used worldwide, although some countries like Australia, New Zealand, Pakistan and Russia prefer to use meteorological reckoning.
season: Tree buds burst into leaves.
season: Some have a third cool, mild, or harmattan season.
season: In fact, Earth reaches perihelion (the point in its orbit closest to the Sun) in January, and it reaches aphelion (the point farthest from the Sun) in July, so the slight contribution of orbital eccentricity opposes the temperature trends of the seasons in the Northern Hemisphere.
season: From the March equinox it currently takes 92.75 days until the June solstice, then 93.65 days until the September equinox, 89.85 days until the December solstice and finally 88.99 days until the March equinox.
season: This means that areas with relatively extreme climates (such as the Paracel Islands and parts of the Tibetan Plateau) may be said to have summer all year round or winter all year round.
season: All the times are given in UTC (roughly speaking, the time at Greenwich, ignoring British Summer Time).
season: Serotinal (late summer): Generally begins mid to late August.
season: Many indigenous people who no longer live directly off the land in traditional often nomadic styles, now observe modern methods of seasonal reckoning according to what is customary in their particular country or region.
season: Birds establish territories and begin mating and nesting.
season: In general, the effect of orbital eccentricity on Earth's seasons is a 7% variation in sunlight received.
season: By October 13 the Sun is above the horizon for only 1 hour 30 minutes, and on October 14 it does not rise above the horizon at all and remains below the horizon until it rises again on 27 February.
season: The definition of seasons is also cultural.
season: Meteorological seasons are reckoned by temperature, with summer being the hottest quarter of the year and winter the coldest quarter of the year.
season: 207–209 incl.
season: The calendar equinox (used in the calculation of Easter) is 21 March, the same date as in the Easter tables current at the time of the Council of Nicaea in AD 325.
season: Conversely, prevernal and vernal seasons begin up to a month earlier near oceanic and coastal areas.
season: A season is a division of the year based on changes in weather, ecology, and the number of daylight hours in a given region.
season: This is because the Northern Hemisphere has more land than the Southern, and land warms more readily than sea.
season: The Tamil calendar follows a similar pattern of six seasons
season: The midpoints of these seasons were March 24 or 25, June 25, September 25 or 26, and December 24 or 25, which are near to the equinoxes and solstices of his day.
season: In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth's surface, variations of which may cause animals to undergo hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
season: Eventually, from mid-November to mid-January, there is no twilight and it is continuously dark.
season: Oceanic regions tend to experience the beginning of the hibernal season up to a month later than continental climates.
season: Birds migrate back to wintering areas.
season: For example, in Nicaragua the dry season (November to April) is called "summer" and the rainy season (May to October) is called "winter", even though it is located in the northern hemisphere.
season: ecological seasons pp.
season: The extra two seasons denoting the freezing and breaking up of the ice on rivers and lakes.
season: Thus, ten thousand years from now Earth's northern winter will occur at aphelion and northern summer at perihelion.
season: Vernal (spring): Begins mid March (mild temperate), to late April (cool temperate).
season: Thus, the tropics are characterized by numerous "mini-seasons" within the larger seasonal blocks of time.
season: Because of seasonal lag, June, July, and August are the warmest months in the Northern Hemisphere while December, January, and February are the warmest months in the Southern Hemisphere.
season: The seasons result from the Earth's axis of rotation being tilted with respect to its orbital plane by an angle of approximately 23.4 degrees.
season: From Nicaea to the date of the reform, the years 500, 600, 700, 900, 1000, 1100, 1300, 1400, and 1500, which would not have been leap years in the Gregorian calendar, amount to nine extra days, but astronomers directed that ten days be removed.
season: This is because during summer or winter, one part of the planet is more directly exposed to the rays of the Sun than the other, and this exposure alternates as the Earth revolves in its orbit.
season: In Chinese there is an expression for a 'late summer', chángxià (長夏).
season: The tropical and (to a lesser degree) subtropical regions see little annual fluctuation of sunlight and temperature due to Earth's moderate 23.4-degree tilt being insufficient to appreciably affect the strength of the Sun's rays annually.
season: Any modern war of manoeuvre profits from firm ground – summer can provide dry conditions suitable for marching and transport, frozen snow in winter can also offer a reliable surface for a period, but spring thaws or autumn rains can inhibit campaigning.
season: The seasons are not the result of the variation in Earth's distance to the Sun because of its elliptical orbit.
season: Pliny the Elder, in his Natural History, mentions the two equinoxes and the two solstices and gives the lengths of the intervals (values which were fairly correct in his day but are no longer very correct because the perihelion has moved from December into January).
season: From mid-November to mid-January, there is no twilight.
season: The six seasons are ascribed to two months each of the twelve months in the Hindu calendar.
season: Average dates listed here are for mild and cool temperate climate zones in the Northern Hemisphere:
season: Instead, many regions (such as the northern Indian Ocean) have varying monsoon rain and wind cycles.
season: Orbital eccentricity can influence temperatures, but on Earth, this effect is small and is more than counteracted by other factors; research shows that the Earth as a whole is actually slightly warmer when farther from the Sun.
season: Tamil Nadu receives most of its annual precipitation in the northeast monsoon season.
season: Migrating birds settled in winter habitats.
season: Deciduous leaves begin to change color in higher latitude locations (above 45 north).
season: Summer is defined as the quarter of the year with the greatest insolation and winter as the quarter with the least.
season: Taliban offensives were usually confined to the Afghanistan fighting season.
season: In temperate and sub-polar regions, four seasons based on the Gregorian calendar are generally recognized: spring, summer, fall, and winter.
season: In this sense, ecological seasons are defined in absolute terms, unlike calendar-based methods in which the seasons are relative.
season: 195–196 incl.
season: In the Hindu calendar of tropical and subtropical India, there are six seasons or Ritu that are calendar-based in the sense of having fixed dates: Vasanta (spring), Grishma (summer), Varsha (monsoon), Sharada (autumn), Hemanta (early winter), and Shishira (prevernal or late winter).
season: Some types of migrating birds fly from winter to summer habitats.
season: According to this definition, for temperate areas in the northern hemisphere, spring begins on 1 March, summer on 1 June, autumn on 1 September, and winter on 1 December.
season: In Sweden and Finland, meteorologists and news outlets use the concept of thermal seasons, which are defined based on mean daily temperatures.
season: In mid-January the first faint wash of twilight briefly touches the horizon (for just minutes per day), and then twilight increases in duration with increasing brightness each day until sunrise at end of February, then on 6 April the Sun remains above the horizon until mid-October.
season: The season is dominated by the humid southwest summer monsoon, which slowly sweeps across the country beginning in late May or early June.
season: The equinoxes and solstices move westward relative to the stars while the perihelion and aphelion move eastward.
season: Floral and animal activity variation near the equator depends more on wet/dry cycles than seasonal temperature variations, with different species flowering (or emerging from cocoons) at specific times before, during, or after the monsoon season.
season: Solar timing is based on insolation in which the solstices and equinoxes are seen as the midpoints of the seasons.
season: The beginning of spring is defined as when the mean daily temperature permanently rises above 0 °C.
season: Prevernal (early or pre-spring): Begins February (mild temperate), to March (cool temperate).
season: In some tropical areas a three-way division into hot, rainy, and cool season is used.
season: Each separate tribal group traditionally observes different seasons determined according to local criteria that can vary from the hibernation of polar bears on the arctic tundras to the growing seasons of plants in the tropical rainforests.
season: The slight differences between the solstices and the equinoxes cause seasonal shifts along a rainy low-pressure belt called the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ICZ).
season: It was the method for reckoning seasons in medieval Europe, especially by the Celts, and is still ceremonially observed in Ireland and some East Asian countries.
season: They are reset by the occurrence of a leap year.
season: In China, a common temperature-based reckoning holds that it is winter for the period when temperatures are below 10°C on average and summer for the period when temperatures are above 22°C on average.
season: This system forms the basis of other such systems in East Asian lunisolar calendars.
season: If specific conditions associated with a particular ecological season do not normally occur in a particular region, then that area cannot be said to experience that season on a regular basis.
season: In Australasia the meteorological terms for seasons apply to the temperate zone that occupies all of New Zealand, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania, the south-eastern corner of South Australia and the south-west of Western Australia, and the south east Queensland areas south of Brisbane.
season: For navies, the presence of accessible ports and bases can allow naval operations during certain (variable) seasons of the year.
season: Smaller irregularities in the times are caused by perturbations of the Moon and the other planets.
season: The actual dates for each season vary by climate region and can shift from one year to the next.
season: Pre-modern armies, especially in Europe, tended to campaign in the summer months - peasant conscripts tended to melt away at harvest time, nor did it make economic sense in an agricultural society to neglect the sowing season.
season: On the other hand, people living far to the west (America), whose clocks run behind UTC, may experience an equinox as early as March 19.
season: The low angle of the Sun during the winter months means that incoming rays of solar radiation are spread over a larger area of the Earth's surface, so the light received is more indirect and of lower intensity.
season: In 1780 the Societas Meteorologica Palatina (which became defunct in 1795), an early international organization for meteorology, defined seasons as groupings of three whole months as identified by the Gregorian calendar.
season: Seasons, though, are not always defined in meteorological terms.
season: The rough correspondences are:
season: The seasons also correlate to aspects of the human condition, intrinsically linking the lives of the people to the world that surrounds them and also dictating their movements, as with each season, various parts of country would be visited which were particularly abundant or safe from the elements.
season: Indigenous people in polar, temperate and tropical climates of northern Eurasia, the Americas, Africa, Oceania, and Australia have traditionally defined the seasons ecologically by observing the activity of the plants, animals and weather around them.
season: In astronomical reckoning by hours of daylight alone, the solstices and equinoxes are in the middle of the respective seasons.
season: Post-monsoon or autumn season, lasting from October to November.
season: In the Far East this five-season cycle is related to Wuxing (Five Phases) cosmology.
season: The times of the equinoxes and solstices are not fixed with respect to the modern Gregorian calendar, but fall about six hours later every year, amounting to one full day in four years.
season: In the northwest of India, October and November are usually cloudless.
season: The North American Cree and possibly other Algonquian speaking peoples used or still use a 6-season system.
season: The two instants when the Sun is directly overhead at the Equator are the equinoxes.
season: In Europe, this is related to the English concept of Midsummer, High Summer or the Dog days, and related also to Spanish distinctions between primavera, estío and verano.
season: Various cultures define the number and nature of seasons based on regional variations, and as such there are a number of both modern and historical definitions of the seasons.
season: Thus the time from the March equinox to the September equinox is 7.56 days longer than from the September equinox to the March equinox.
