show_jumping: In some circumstances, members of international teams may wear jackets in their country's respective colors or add national insignia.
show_jumping: The equipment, clothing, and fence styles used in equitation more closely resemble hunter classes, although the technical difficulty of the courses may more closely resemble showjumping events.
show_jumping: Placings are based on the lowest number of points or "faults" accumulated.
show_jumping: This sport was, however, not popular with spectators since they could not follow to watch the jumping.
show_jumping: Sometimes shows are limited exclusively to jumpers.
show_jumping: A meeting was arranged in 1923 which led to the formation of the BSJA in 1925.
show_jumping: The jump-off has fewer jumps than the first round but is usually much more difficult.
show_jumping: The first courses were built with little imagination, many consisting of only a straight bar fence and a water jump.
show_jumping: Since horses judge their takeoff from the base of a jump (the ground line), most fences have a rail placed on or near the base of a fence, however sometimes a jump is constructed without a ground line to test the horse's ability to jump without that cue.
show_jumping: Fences are designed to break away if struck by the horse to simplify scoring, and to increase safety by reducing falls by the horse.
show_jumping: Hunters have meticulous turnout and tend toward very quiet, conservative horse tack and rider attire.
show_jumping: The first round of the class consists of the rider and horse having to go around the course without refusing or knocking down any jumps while also staying within the time allowed.
show_jumping: While this style of riding may have felt more secure for the rider, it also impeded the freedom of the horse to use its body to the extent needed to clear large obstacles.
show_jumping: Gloves, usually black, are optional, as is the plaiting of the horse's mane and tail.
show_jumping: The most famous example was Stroller, who only stood 14.1 hands (57 inches, 145 cm) but was nonetheless an Individual silver medal winner and part of the Great Britain show jumping team in the 1968 Summer Olympics, jumping one of the few clean rounds in the competition.
show_jumping: Doubleday, 1988.
show_jumping: Going off course will cost time if minor errors are made and major departures will result in disqualification.
show_jumping: Spurs are optional, but commonly used.
show_jumping: The world record for the high jump, the precursor to the puissance, is 2.47 m (8 ft 1 in), held by Captain Alberto Larraguibel Morales riding Huaso, in 1949.
show_jumping: Combinations: A refusal at any of the jumps in combination results in the horse having to repeat the entire set of obstacles in the designated order of succession, not just the element refused.
show_jumping: Boots and wraps are worn by almost all horses, due to the fact that they may easily injure their legs when landing or when making tight turns at speed.
show_jumping: Tied entries usually have a jump-off over a raised and shortened course, and the course is timed; if entries are tied for faults accumulated in the jump-off, the fastest time wins.
show_jumping: No faults were incurred, however, if the raised block in front of the water was knocked down.
show_jumping: At international levels, saddle pads are usually white and square in shape, allowing the pair to display a sponsorship, national flag, or breeding affiliation.
show_jumping: Gambler's choice/accumulator: An event where exhibitors choose their own course, with each fence cleared worth a given number of points based on difficulty.
show_jumping: The current, (April 2013), world record for the puissance is 2.40 m (7 ft 10 in) held by Franke Sloothaak.
show_jumping: How the rider chooses to adjust can also depend on their horse.
show_jumping: A Liverpool is when a small pool (although it does not have to be filled with water) is placed under an oxer or a vertical.
show_jumping: An Italian riding instructor, Captain Federico Caprilli, heavily influenced the world of jumping with his ideas promoting a forward position with shorter stirrups.
show_jumping: A refusal that results in the destruction of the integrity of a jump (running into the fence instead of jumping it, displacing poles, gates, flowers, or large clumps of turf or dirt) will not receive four faults for the knockdown, but instead the four faults for a refusal.
show_jumping: A refusal inside a combination (a series of two or more fences with one or two strides between each element) must re-jump the entire combination.
show_jumping: Occasionally, if there are multiple jump-offs, the final fences may be raised to well over six feet.
show_jumping: Match race or double slalom: two identical courses are set up in a split arena, and two horses jump over the courses in a timed competition.
show_jumping: This is because both disciplines are designed to test the rider's ability to control the horse through a difficult course consisting of rollbacks, combinations, and higher obstacles.
show_jumping: Riders must wear white or light-colored shirts, white ties or chokers, black or brown boots, white or light fawn breeches, and red or black jackets.
show_jumping: Most show jumpers are tall horses, over 16 hands (64 inches, 163 cm), usually of Warmblood or Thoroughbred breeding, though horses as small as 14.1 hands (57 inches, 145 cm) have been on the Olympic teams of various nations and carried riders to Olympic and other international medals.
show_jumping: Some events may make it compulsory to wear show jackets.
show_jumping: So a horse may jump "A" and "B" without issue but have a refusal at the third fence (C), at which time the rider would have to circle and return to jump fence "A" again, giving the horse a second chance to refuse or knock down "A" and "B".
show_jumping: In contrast, riders in show hunters and equitation often use "fitted" fleece pads that are the same shape as the saddle.
show_jumping: Table C is a method of scoring based only on speed.
show_jumping: Unlike show hunter classes, which reward calmness and style, jumper classes require boldness, scope, power, accuracy, and control; speed also is a factor, especially in jump-off courses and speed classes (when time counts even in the first round).
show_jumping: It was for this reason that more poles were added and fillers came into use.
show_jumping: If the water fence is a 'Liverpool' no faults will be accumulated for landing in the water.
show_jumping: Refusing or running out at any fence:
1st: 4 faults
2nd: another 4 faults added on
3rd: elimination (ELM)
(At first, stadium jumps were set as a single rail that sometimes would be up to five feet high.
show_jumping: In most competitions, riders are allowed to walk the initial course but not the jump-off course (usually the same course with missing jumps, e.g., 1, 3, 5, 7, 8 instead of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or the same course but timed) before competition to plan their ride.
show_jumping: Pony-sized horses may, on occasion, compete in open competition with adult riders.
show_jumping: A vertical jump is an upright jump with a single pair of standards which hold a vertical stack of rails or planks, or a gate.
show_jumping: Nonetheless, a taller horse may make a fence appear less daunting to the rider.
show_jumping: Jumping classes may be governed by various national horse show sanctioning organizations, such as the United States Equestrian Federation or the British Showjumping Association.
show_jumping: Refusals: Refusals now are penalized four faults, up from three.
show_jumping: The higher levels of competition, such as "A" or "AA" rated shows in the United States, or the international "Grand Prix" circuit, present more technical and complex courses.
show_jumping: In hot summer weather, many riders wear a simple short-sleeved polo shirt with helmet, boots and breeches, and even where coats are required, the judges may waive the coat rule in extremely hot weather.
show_jumping: Jumper classes are held over a course of show jumping obstacles, including verticals, spreads, and double and triple combinations, usually with many turns and changes of direction.
show_jumping: A dark-colored coat is typically worn, although some organizations allow tweed jackets or non-wool machine washable jackets.
show_jumping: ISBN 0-385-23620-4
Llewellyn, H.
show_jumping: To win this round, the rider has to be the quickest while still not refusing or knocking down any jumps.
show_jumping: The deep, Dressage-style seat, while useful for riding on the flat and in conditions where control of the horse is of greater importance than freedom of movement, is less suitable for jumping.
show_jumping: This style, now known as the forward seat, is commonly used today.
show_jumping: Penalties for knockdowns are imposed only when the knockdown changes the height or width of the jump.
show_jumping: If a horse has a smaller stride in comparison to the average, they may need to add another stride and vice versa if the horse has a longer stride.
show_jumping: Since the early 2000s, this rule was changed by the FEI so that each second or fraction of a second over the time allowed would result in 1 time penalty (e.g.
show_jumping: Girths vary in size and type, but usually have a contour to give room for the horse's elbows, and many have belly guards to protect the underside of the horse from its shoe studs when the front legs are tightly folded under.
show_jumping: In a jump-off, the rider needs to plan ahead because they must be very speedy and also not have any faults.
show_jumping: Breeches are usually white, tan, or beige.
show_jumping: Bits may also vary in severity, and competitors may use any bit, or even a "bitless bridle" or a mechanical hackamore.
show_jumping: Thus, it was not long before fences began to appear in an arena for the competitions.
show_jumping: Run under International Federation for Equestrian Sports (FEI) rules, the horse jumps a course of 10 to 16 obstacles, with heights up to 1.6 meters (5 feet 3 inches) and spreads of up to 2.0 metres (6 ft 7 in).
show_jumping: A refusal may lead to a rider exceeding the time allowed on course.
show_jumping: Jumping classes are commonly seen at horse shows throughout the world, including the Olympics.
show_jumping: The ground jury at the show has the right, however, based on veterinary advice, to refuse a bit or bridling scheme if it could cause harm to the horse.
show_jumping: Courses often are colorful and at times, quite creatively designed.
show_jumping: Show jumping competitors use a very forward style of English saddle, most often the "close contact" design, which has a forward flap and a seat and cantle that is flatter than saddles designed for general all-purpose English riding or dressage.
show_jumping: with a time allowed of 72 seconds, a time of 73.09 seconds would result in 2 time faults).
show_jumping: Many breeds of horses have been successful show jumpers, and even some grade horses of uncertain breeding have been champions.
show_jumping: Fifteen years later, Lepping competitions were brought to Britain and by 1900 most of the more important shows had Lepping classes.
show_jumping: Para-showjumping, or para-jumping, is show jumping for disabled people.
show_jumping: Show jumping events have hunter classes, jumper classes and hunt seat equitation classes.
show_jumping: A spread jump made of two or more pairs of standards, making a wider jump for the horse, is called an oxer.
show_jumping: Ponies also compete in show jumping competitions in many countries, usually in classes limited to youth riders, defined as those under the age of 16 or 18 years, depending on the sanctioning organization.
show_jumping: At international level competitions  governed by FEI rules, fence heights begin at 1.50 metres (4 ft 11 in).
show_jumping: Members of the military, police forces, and national studs, however, have the right to wear their service uniforms instead of FEI-prescribed dress.
show_jumping: "INTERNATIONAL SHOW JUMPING." Journal of the Royal Society of Arts, Vol.
show_jumping: Touch class: A class held much as a normal show jumping class, except that if the horse touches the jump it is considered four faults.
show_jumping: Walking the course before the event is a chance for the rider to walk the lines they will have to ride, in order to decide how many strides the horse will need to take between each jump and from which angle.
show_jumping: Jumping Penalties: Jumping penalties are assessed for refusals and knockdowns, with each refusal or knockdown adding four faults to a competitor's score.
show_jumping: Speed derby
Puissance: a high-jump competition in which the final wall may reach over seven feet tall.
show_jumping: If the horse/rider combination completes the first round successfully, then they move on to the second round, called the "jump-off".
show_jumping: Conversely, jumper classes are scored objectively, based entirely on a numerical score determined only by whether the horse attempts the obstacle, clears it, and finishes the course in the allotted time.
show_jumping: Sometimes, show jumping is but one division of a very large, all-breed competition that includes a very wide variety of disciplines.
show_jumping: However, dressage horses are forbidden from wearing boots or wraps during competition or tests, due to the formality of dressage there are extended regulations on tack.
show_jumping: Some of the basic types of fences seen in show jumping are verticals, spreads, water, and combinations.
show_jumping: A water obstacle may be a wide open ditch of shallow water (usually lined with light blue plastic) or a smaller water ditch with a jump placed over it.
show_jumping: The Complete Book of Show Jumping.
show_jumping: This meant that those wishing to pursue their sport now needed horses that were capable of jumping these obstacles.
show_jumping: Failure to break the timers starting or finishing would result in elimination.
show_jumping: Open-fronted tendon boots usually are worn on the forelegs, because they provide protection for the delicate tendons that run down the back of the leg, but still allow the horse to feel a rail should it get careless and hang its legs.
show_jumping: Shirts are light-colored (usually white) ratcatcher-styles with either a choker or stock tie.
show_jumping: Fetlock boots are sometimes seen on the rear legs, primarily to prevent the horse from hitting itself on tight turns.
show_jumping: The majority of jumpers are ridden in running martingales since these provide the most freedom over fences.
show_jumping: Jumping faults are incurred for knockdowns and blatant disobedience, such as refusals (when the horse stops before a fence or the horse, "runs out") (see Modern scoring below).
show_jumping: Separate classes were held for women riding sidesaddle.
show_jumping: The intent is to jump cleanly over a set course within an allotted time.
show_jumping: In the United States, jumping levels range from 0–9, for example USEF jumper level 0 has fences 2'6" to 2'9" high and up to 2'9" to 3'0" wide, and level 9 has fences 4'9" to 5'0" high and up to 5'0" to 5'6" wide.
show_jumping: Show jumping is a part of a group of English riding equestrian events that also includes eventing, hunters, and equitation.
show_jumping: International competitions are governed by the rules of the International Federation for Equestrian Sports.
show_jumping: This could also mean that the rider may have to add or subtract a stride to clear the jump with more ease.
show_jumping: For this reason, standing martingales are not used in show jumping or eventing.
show_jumping: Maiden, novice, and limit: Jumping classes limited to horses with fewer than one, three, or six wins.
show_jumping: A horse and rider who have not accumulated any jumping faults or penalty points are said to have scored a "clear round".
show_jumping: Horses are allowed a limited number of refusals before being disqualified.
show_jumping: An early form of show jumping first was incorporated into the Olympic Games in 1900.
show_jumping: Until the inclosure acts, which came into force in England in the 18th century, there had been little need for horses to jump fences routinely, but with this act of Parliament came new challenges for those who followed fox hounds.
show_jumping: This style placed the rider in a position that did not interfere with the balance of the horse while negotiating obstacles.
show_jumping: New York: Crown Publishers, 1975.
show_jumping: Grand Prix show jumping is normally referred to collectively as five-star Concours de Saut International (CSI) rules.
show_jumping: Formal turnout always is preferred; a neat rider gives a good impression at shows.
show_jumping: Rules have evolved since then, with different national federations having different classes and rules.
show_jumping: "In and out" is the informal name designated to combinations with only two elements such as "A" and "B", and not specific enough for a three-jump combination.
show_jumping: Grand Prix-level show jumping competitions include the Olympics, the World Equestrian Games, and other series of internationally ranked events.
show_jumping: In most places, fences are placed at equal distances apart, the first fence is the lowest and each subsequent fence is higher than the one before.
show_jumping: Six-bar: riders jump six fences set in a straight line.
show_jumping: In the early horse shows held in France, there was a parade of competitors who then took off across country for the jumping.
show_jumping: For example, a course designer might set up a line so that there are six and a half strides (the standard measure for a canter stride is twelve feet) between the jumps, requiring the rider to adjust the horse's stride dramatically in order to make the distance.
show_jumping: Horses sometimes also have to jump fences from an angle rather than straight on.
show_jumping: In the United States, a similar need for national rules for jumping and other equestrian activities led to the formation of the American Horse Shows Association in 1917, which now is known as the United States Equestrian Federation.
show_jumping: Other saddles, such as those designed for dressage, feature a deep seat that can hinder a rider over large fences, forcing them into a position that limits the horse's movement and may put the rider dangerously behind the movement of the horse.
show_jumping: This became known as Lepping.
show_jumping: Jumper courses tend to be much more complex and technical than hunter courses because riders and horses are not being judged on style.
show_jumping: 1869 was the year 'horse leaping' came to prominence at Dublin horse show.
show_jumping: Time penalties were not counted until 1917.
show_jumping: The penalties for each knockdown is to add 4 seconds to the rider's time.
show_jumping: Hunter bits, bridles, crops, spurs, and martingales are tightly regulated.
show_jumping: This construction allows greater freedom of movement for the rider when in jumping position and allows a shorter stirrup, allowing the rider to lighten the seat on the horse.
show_jumping: Horses prefer a more solid looking jump, so many rail fences are filled with brush or flower boxes or other solid-looking objects.
show_jumping: Martingales are very common, especially on horses used at the Grand Prix level.
show_jumping: Jumper courses can range anywhere in height from 0.55 meters to 2.00 meters.
show_jumping: The international governing body for most major show jumping competitions is the Fédération Équestre Internationale (FEI).
show_jumping: Significant jumpers from the United States are included in the Show Jumping Hall of Fame.
show_jumping: Fences are usually lower and time limits more generous.
show_jumping: An approved ASTM/SEI equestrian helmet with a harness is always required, and is a practical necessity to protect the rider's head in the event of a fall.
show_jumping: High jumping would start with a pole at around five feet high, but this was later abandoned since many horses went under the pole.
show_jumping: Calcutta: A jumping event where spectators bet on which horse will win by means of an auction where the highest bidder has the exclusive bet on a given horse.
show_jumping: The two most common types of penalties are jumping penalties and time penalties.
show_jumping: At FEI Grand Prix levels, dress is more strictly controlled.
show_jumping: After each round where more than one competitor goes "clean," or is tied for the fewest faults, the six fences are raised in height for each subsequent round until there is a winner.
show_jumping: Tall boots are required, usually black.
show_jumping: Hunters are judged subjectively on the degree to which they meet an ideal standard of manners, style, and way of going.
show_jumping: In addition to hunters and jumpers, there are equitation classes, sometimes called hunt seat equitation, which judges the ability of the rider.
show_jumping: The fastest score wins.
show_jumping: Not only is the height and width ("spread") of an obstacle increased to present a greater challenge, technical difficulty also increases with tighter turns and shorter or unusual distances between fences.
show_jumping: Judges marked on their own opinions.
show_jumping: Breastplates also are common, used to keep the saddle in place as the horse goes over large fences.
show_jumping: The first major show jumping competition held in England was at Olympia in 1907.
show_jumping: The figure-8 cavesson is the most popular type.
show_jumping: Faults converted: A class in which any faults are converted into seconds on the clock, usually at the rate of 1 second per fault (i.e., one rail = 4 seconds)
show_jumping: A wall is a vertical stack of blocks painted to look like a stone or brick wall.
show_jumping: Some marked according to the severity of the obstacle and others marked according to style.
show_jumping: At this time, the principal cavalry schools of Europe at Pinerolo and Tor-di-Quinto in Italy, the French school in Saumur, and the Spanish school in Vienna all preferred to use a very deep seat with long stirrups when jumping.
show_jumping: Time Penalties: In the past, a common timing rule was a 1/4 second penalty for each second or fraction of a second over the time allowed.
show_jumping: Show jumping in its current format appeared in 1912 and has thrived ever since, its recent popularity due in part to its suitability as a spectator sport that is well adapted for viewing on television.
show_jumping: Bridles may be used with any style of cavesson noseband, and there are few rules regarding the severity of this equipment.
show_jumping: Bibliography
Clayton, Michael, and William Steinkraus.
show_jumping: Sometimes jumper classes are offered in conjunction with other English-style events.
show_jumping: Penalties are assessed at the open water when any of the horse's feet touch the water or white tape marking its boundary.
show_jumping: There is no correlation between the size of a horse and its athletic ability, nor do tall horses necessarily have an advantage when jumping.
show_jumping: The inclosure acts brought fencing and boundaries to many parts of the country as common ground was dispersed amongst separate owners.
show_jumping: Time faults are assessed for exceeding the time allowance.
show_jumping: Rider attire may be somewhat less formal than that used in hunter riding.
show_jumping: Although the exact mechanism varies by region and culture, as a rule, the spectator who bets on the winner collects all money bet and then splits the purse with the owner of the winning horse.
show_jumping: Therefore, if each of the three fences in a triple combination were knocked down, the rider would receive 12 faults (4 per fence, instead of 4 faults for the entire obstacle).
show_jumping: Fédération Equestre Internationale (FEI)
Jump Off CN World Cup
Jump Off: Big Ben Challenge
Four-bar Competition
Derby course
World Cup 2022 Jumping
show_jumping: Show jumping fences are man-made and often colorful or artistic in design.
show_jumping: In Germany, competition levels are denoted by the letters E, A, L, M, S, and correspond to heights ranging from 0.80 to 1.55 meters.
show_jumping: Despite being considered one obstacle, each element may result in penalty points if knocked down.
show_jumping: This is then added to any time penalties that have occurred
show_jumping: In most competitions, the penalties for knocking a pole down is four per pole.
show_jumping: Before 1907 there were no penalties for a refusal and the competitor was sometimes asked to miss the fence to please the spectators.
show_jumping: Classic Show Jumping: The de Nemethy Method; A Complete System for Training Today's Horses and Riders.
show_jumping: Jumpers, while caring for their horses and grooming them well, are not scored on turnout, are allowed a wider range of equipment, and may wear less conservative attire, so long as it stays within the rules.
show_jumping: Most of the competitors were members of the military and it became clear at this competition and in the subsequent years, that there was no uniformity of rules for the sport.
show_jumping: Water jumps were once at least 15 feet (5 m) wide, although the water often had drained out of them by the time the last competitor jumped.
show_jumping: A combination jump is two or three jumps in a row, with one or two strides between each; two jumps in a row is called a double combination and three jumps is a triple combination.
show_jumping: Most jumps are constructed with poles or planks supported on each end by standards, upright supports which can hold multiple poles at various heights.
show_jumping: ASIN: B000HFW4KC
de Nemethy, Bertalan.
show_jumping: If a horse or rider knocks down a bottom or middle rail while still clearing the height of the obstacle, providing the rails are directly underneath the top rail, they receive no penalties.
show_jumping: Horses are either penalized or eliminated from the competition if they knock down a rail.
show_jumping: The entry who accumulates the most points within a set time limit on course is the winner.
