snowboarding: Alpine snowboarding is a discipline within the sport of snowboarding.
snowboarding: The sport features both recreational and competitive participation.
snowboarding: That same year, he founded Burton Snowboards in Londonderry, Vermont.
snowboarding: To acquire the right technique, one should be taught by a qualified instructor.
snowboarding: It is directly influenced by grinding a skateboard.
snowboarding: Injuries to the upper body are much less common among professional snowboarders.
snowboarding: As equipment and skills improved, gradually snowboarding became more accepted.
snowboarding: In 1985, the first World Cup was held in Zürs, Austria, further cementing snowboarding's recognition as an official international competitive sport.
snowboarding: The basic allows for various snowboarding styles in a fluid motion and spontaneity through naturally rugged terrain.
snowboarding: As of 2026, three resorts which do not allow snowboarding in North America: Alta, Deer Valley, and Mad River Glen.
snowboarding: Padding or "armor" is recommended on other body parts such as hips, knees, spine, and shoulders.
snowboarding: In addition, the United States of America Snowboard Association (USASA) provides instructing guidelines and runs snowboard competitions in the U.S.
snowboarding: Most injuries to snowboarders occurred more often while they were traveling at reckless speed on moderate slopes.
snowboarding: Tail Edge
The trailing edge of the snowboard.
snowboarding: Tamedog
A cartwheel over the nose edge of the board.
snowboarding: Slopestyle is a judged event and winning a Slopestyle contest usually comes from successfully executing the most difficult line in the terrain park while having a smooth flowing line of difficult, mistake-free tricks performed on the obstacles.
snowboarding: Snowboarding subculture was frequently associated with a rebellious or outsider identity and incorporated elements of both urban and suburban cultures.
snowboarding: This injury results in persistent lateral pain in the affected ankle yet is difficult to spot in a plain X-ray image.
snowboarding: In recent decades, snowboarding has expanded into a diverse international participant base.
snowboarding: Snowboarder Magazine's Superpark event was created in 1996.
snowboarding: Snowboarding contests are held throughout the world and range from grassroots competitions to professional events contested worldwide.
snowboarding: The latter can result in the rider landing on their back and slamming the back of their head onto the ground, resulting in an occipital head injury.
snowboarding: This is the method used by practitioners of judo and other martial arts to break a fall when they are thrown against the floor by a training partner.
snowboarding: There are around 100,000 wrist fractures worldwide among snowboarders each year.
snowboarding: Tom Sims, founder of Sims Snowboards, organized the event with the help of Mike Chantry, a snowboard instructor at Soda Springs.
snowboarding: Waxing is best performed in a ventilated area with care being taken to use the wax at the correct temperature – the wax should be melted but not smoking or smoldering.
snowboarding: In February 1968, Poppen organized the first snurfing competition at a Michigan ski resort that attracted enthusiasts from all over the country.
snowboarding: In snowboard racing, riders must complete a downhill course constructed of a series of turning color indicators (gates) placed in the snow at prescribed distances apart.
snowboarding: They are often compulsory in beginner's classes and their use reduces the likelihood of wrist injury by half.
snowboarding: Fractures of the talus bone are rare in other sports but account for 2% of snowboard injuries – a lateral process talus fracture is sometimes called "snowboarder's ankle" by medical staff.
snowboarding: Like some other winter sports, snowboarding comes with a certain level of risk.
snowboarding: Snowboarding was first developed in 1965 in the United States.
snowboarding: A gate consists of a tall pole and a short pole, connected by a triangular panel.
snowboarding: Skiers and snowboarders have increasingly shared slopes and facilities.
snowboarding: Compared to freestyle snowboarding gear:
snowboarding: And, in 1966 alone, over half a million snurfers were sold.
snowboarding: There were protests about Jake entering with a non-snurfer board.
snowboarding: Also during this same period, in 1977, Jake Burton Carpenter, a Vermont native who had enjoyed snurfing since the age of 14, impressed the crowd at a Michigan snurfing competition with bindings he had designed to secure his feet to the board.
snowboarding: Typically jibbing occurs in a snowboard resort park but can also be done in urban environments.
snowboarding: In freestyle, the rider utilizes natural and man-made features such as rails, jumps, boxes, and innumerable others to perform tricks.
snowboarding: Later on, various versions of bindings became a common feature in most snowboards.
snowboarding: Such injuries are typically to the knee ligaments, bone fractures are rare.
snowboarding: Jibbing is a freestyle snowboarding technique of riding.
snowboarding: The most common styles today are: freeride, freestyle, and freecarve/race.
snowboarding: Experienced riders are less likely to suffer injury, but the injuries that do occur tend to be more severe.
snowboarding: The half-pipe is a semi-circular ditch dug into the mountain or purpose-built ramp made up of snow, with walls between 8 and 23 feet (7.0 m).
snowboarding: today, high-profile snowboarding events like the Winter X Games, Air & Style, US Open, Olympic Games and other events are broadcast worldwide.
snowboarding: The most common point of injury is the wrists – 40% of all snowboard injuries are to the wrists and 24% of all snowboard injuries are wrist fractures.
snowboarding: Wildcat
A cartwheel over the tail edge of the board.
snowboarding: In 1990, the International Snowboard Federation (ISF) was founded to provide universal contest regulations.
snowboarding: Shaped skis can thank these "freecarve" snowboards for the cutting-edge technology leading to their creation.
snowboarding: A "modified" "Open" division was created and won by Jake as the sole entrant.
snowboarding: A quarter of all injuries occur to first-time riders and half of all injuries occur to those with less than a year of experience.
snowboarding: Over time, several riding styles have developed, and the sport has featured in the Winter Olympic Games since 1998 and Winter Paralympic Games since 2018.
snowboarding: While each style is unique, there is overlap between them.
snowboarding: To further help avoid injury to body parts, especially knees, it is recommended to use the right technique.
snowboarding: Back Flip
A backwards somersault over the heel edge of the board.
snowboarding: A skilled alpine snowboarder can link numerous turns into a run placing their body very close to the ground each turn, similar to a motocross turn or waterski carve.
snowboarding: It may be misdiagnosed as just a sprain, with possibly serious consequences as not treating the fracture can result in serious long-term damage to the ankle.
snowboarding: Injuries are more likely amongst beginners, especially those who do not take lessons with professional instructors.
snowboarding: As a verb: to jib is referring to the action of jumping, sliding, or riding on top of objects other than snow.
snowboarding: Also, when snowboarding alone, precaution should be taken to avoid tree wells, a particularly dangerous area of loose snow that may form at the base of trees.
snowboarding: Snowboarding has influenced and developed its own distinct culture.
snowboarding: Reflecting this perspective of snowboarding, there are "Anti Contests" which are an important part of its identity.
snowboarding: That race was considered the first competition for snowboarding and is the start of what became competitive snowboarding.
snowboarding: Backside Rotation
A flat rotation in which the back of the person's body is the first to intersect with the direction of travel; after 90 degrees of rotation, the person's back will be facing the direction of travel.
snowboarding: This contrasts with alpine skiing, where two-thirds of injuries are to the lower body.
snowboarding: These include the Holy Oly Revival at The Summit at Snoqualmie, The Nate Chute Hawaiian Classic at Whitefish, the original anti-contest, the World Quarterpipe Championships and the Grenade Games.
snowboarding: One of the first snowboard competitions where Travis Rice attempted and landed a "double back flip backside 180" took place at the 2006 Red Bull Gap Session.
snowboarding: Backside Triple-Cork 1440).
snowboarding: It is practiced on groomed pistes.
snowboarding: He produced commercial snowboards in the mid-70s including the Skiboard (also known as the Lonnie Toft flying banana) a molded polyethylene bottom with a Lonnie Toft signature skateboard deck attached to the top.
snowboarding: In 1990, most major ski areas had separate slopes for snowboarders.
snowboarding: Snowboarders have a 2.4 times greater risk of fractures than skiers, particularly in the upper extremities.
snowboarding: The most common types of injuries are sprains, which account for around 40% of injuries.
snowboarding: Protective eyewear is also recommended as eye injury can be caused by impact and snow blindness can be a result of exposure to strong ultra-violet light in snow-covered areas.
snowboarding: The injury rate for snowboarding is about four to six per thousand persons per day, which is around double the injury rate for alpine skiing.
snowboarding: Snowboard cross began in the 1980s, earning its place as an official Winter Olympic event in the 2006 Turin games.
snowboarding: Sometimes called freecarving or hardbooting (due to the equipment used), this discipline usually takes place on hard packed snow or groomed runs (although it can be practiced in any and all conditions) and focuses on carving linked turns, much like surfing or longboarding.
snowboarding: Paul Graves, and others, advocated that Jake be allowed to race.
snowboarding: Injuries also differ between professional and recreational snowboarding.
snowboarding: It has been an Olympic event since 1998.
snowboarding: Many alpine resorts have terrain parks.
snowboarding: On 2 May 2012, the International Paralympic Committee announced that adaptive snowboarding (dubbed "para-snowboarding") would debut as a men's and women's medal event in the 2014 Paralympic Winter Games taking place in Sochi, Russia.
snowboarding: For this reason, helmets are widely recommended.
snowboarding: Rather, landing with the arms stretched out (like a wing) and slapping the slope with the entire arm is an effective way to break a fall.
snowboarding: Tom Sims along with an assortment of other snowboarders of the time were present.
snowboarding: In the 1960s, as an eighth grader in Haddonfield, New Jersey, Sims crafted a snowboard in his school shop class by gluing carpet to the top of a piece of wood and attaching aluminum sheeting to the bottom.
snowboarding: Most of the professionals and elite snowboarders frequently sustain injuries when trying to execute challenging tricks at high speeds and with increased levels of force to the lower limbs.
snowboarding: In addition it is important for snow boarders to learn how to fall without stopping the fall with their hand by trying to "push" the slope away, as landing a wrist which is bent at a 90-degree angle increase the chance of it breaking.
snowboarding: Now, approximately 97% of all ski areas in North America and Europe allow snowboarding, and more than half have jumps, rails and half pipes.
snowboarding: Unlike other snowboard racing disciplines such as parallel giant slalom, competitors race on a single course together.
snowboarding: They allow snowboarders to turn the locked foot straight into the direction of the tip of the snowboard without removing the boot from the boot binding.
snowboarding: Front Flip
A forwards somersault (i.e.
snowboarding: The course is full of obstacles including boxes, rails, jumps, jibs, or anything else the board or rider can slide across.
snowboarding: It is a popular all-inclusive concept that distinguishes the creative aspects of snowboarding, in contrast to a style like alpine snowboarding.
snowboarding: Snowboarding became popular around the world in the late 20th century.
snowboarding: Early snowboards were banned from the slopes by park officials.
snowboarding: Not all competitions call for a trick to win the gold; some intermittent competitions are based solely on height and distance of the launch of the snowboarder.
snowboarding: ski areas allowed snowboarding, with a similar proportion in Europe.
snowboarding: Rodeo
A rotation in which the person's head leads through the air in the direction of travel.
snowboarding: Boards are narrower, longer, and stiffer to improve carving performance
Boots are made from a hard plastic shell, making it flex differently from a regular snowboard boot and is designed differently to ski boots although they look similar.
snowboarding: Alpine snowboarding shares more visual similarities with skiing equipment than it does with snowboarding equipment.
snowboarding: Big air competitions are contests where riders perform tricks after launching off a man-made jump built specifically for the event.
snowboarding: Heel Edge
The edge of the snowboard that the riders' heels rest on.
snowboarding: In 1980 the event moved to Pando Winter Sports Park near Grand Rapids, Michigan, because of a lack of snow that year at the original venue.
snowboarding: These styles are used for both recreational and professional snowboarding.
snowboarding: From these developments, modern snowboarding equipment usually consists of a snowboard with specialized bindings and boots.
snowboarding: Competitors perform tricks in the air, aiming to attain sizable height and distance, all while securing a clean landing.
snowboarding: Another way injuries happen is because they try sticking with someone that is a higher skill level, which they are not capable of handling because of the lack of skill they possess.
snowboarding: Depending on factors including stiffness, turning radius and personality this can be done slowly or fast.
snowboarding: Since its inauguration, Olympic snowboarding has seen many additions and removals of events.
snowboarding: Modern snowboarding was pioneered by Tom Sims and Jake Burton Carpenter.
snowboarding: Many competitions also require the rider to do a complex trick.
snowboarding: Ken Kampenga, John Asmussen and Jim Trim placed first, second and third respectively in the Standard competition with best two combined times of 24.71, 25.02 and 25.41; and Jake Carpenter won prize money as the sole entrant in the "open" division with a time of 26.35.
snowboarding: Freeriding is a style without a set of governing rules or set course, typically on natural, un-groomed terrain.
snowboarding: For several years snowboarders would have to take a small skills assessment prior to being allowed to ride the chairlifts.
snowboarding: Little or no jumping takes place in this discipline.
snowboarding: Alpine Snowboarding consists of a small portion of the general snowboard population, that has a well connected social community and its own specific board manufacturers, most situated in Europe.
snowboarding: In 1983, the first World Championship halfpipe competition was held at Soda Springs, California.
snowboarding: Regular Stance
The stance of a snowboarder that normally rides with their left foot first.
snowboarding: Others experimented with board-on-snow configurations at this time, including Welsh skateboard enthusiasts Jon Roberts and Pete Matthews developed their own snowboards to use at their local dry ski slope.
snowboarding: Snowboarding is a recreational and competitive sport that involves descending a snow-covered surface while standing on a snowboard with bindings securing the rider's feet to the board.
snowboarding: The use of wrist guards, either separate or built into gloves, is very strongly recommended.
snowboarding: There was a 10% increase over the previous season, accounting for more than 30% of all snow sports participants.
snowboarding: Fractures to the lower leg are also rare but 20% of injuries are to the foot and ankle.
snowboarding: France's Karine Ruby was the first to win an Olympic gold medal for Woman's Snowboarding, while Canadian Ross Rebagliati was the first for Men's Snowboarding.
snowboarding: In April 1981, the "King of the Mountain" Snowboard competition was held at Ski Cooper in Colorado.
snowboarding: Switch Stance
The opposite stance of what a snowboarder normally rides.
snowboarding: One entrant showed up on a homemade snowboard with a formica bottom that turned out to not slide so well on the snow.
snowboarding: The word "jib" is both a noun and a verb, depending on the usage of the word.
snowboarding: Some care is also required when waxing a board as fluorocarbon waxes emit toxic fumes when overheated.
snowboarding: Over 150 of the World's top pros are invited to advance freestyle snowboarding on the most progressive terrain parks.
snowboarding: Snowboarders push themselves forward with a free foot while in the ski-lift line, leaving the other foot (usually that of the lead leg) locked on the board at a 9–27 degree angle, placing a large torque force on this leg and predisposing the person to knee injury if a fall occurs.
snowboarding: Goofy Stance
The stance of a snowboarder that normally rides with their right foot first.
snowboarding: Cork
A rotation in which the snowboard leads through the air in the direction of travel.
snowboarding: Two-thirds of injuries occur to the upper body and one-third to the lower body.
snowboarding: Snowboarding boots should be well-fitted, with toes snug in the end of the boot when standing upright and slightly away from the end when in the snowboarding position.
snowboarding: As a noun: a jib includes metal rails, boxes, benches, concrete ledges, walls, vehicles, rocks and logs.
snowboarding: In 2008, snowboarding had over 5 million participants, most aged between 18 and 24, with women comprising 25% of participants.
snowboarding: At the 1998 Winter Olympic Games in Nagano, Japan, Snowboarding became an official Olympic event.
snowboarding: It was thought that an unskilled snowboarder would wipe the snow off the mountain.
snowboarding: Head injuries can occur both because of a collision and when failing to carry out a heel-side turn.
snowboarding: It can be like freestyle with the exception that no man-made features are utilized.
snowboarding: Some competitions also require the rider to do a specific trick to win the major prize.
snowboarding: Frontside Rotation
A flat rotation in which the front of the person's body is the first to intersect with the direction of travel; after 90 degrees of rotation, the person's front will be facing the direction of travel.
snowboarding: face first) over the toe edge of the board.
snowboarding: "Jibbing" is the term for technical riding on non-standard surfaces.
snowboarding: The wearing of ultra-violet-absorbing goggles is recommended even on hazy or cloudy days as ultra-violet light can penetrate clouds.
snowboarding: In 1982, the first USA National Snowboard race was held near Woodstock, Vermont, at Suicide Six.
snowboarding: There are 3 main formats used in snowboard racing including single person, parallel courses or multiple people on the course at the same time (SBX).
snowboarding: In the early 1980s, Aleksey Ostatnigrosh and Alexei Melnikov, two Snurfers from the Soviet Union, patented design changes to the Snurfer to allow jumping by attaching a bungee cord, a single footed binding to the Snurfer tail, and a two-foot binding design for improved control.
snowboarding: In 1985, only seven percent of U.S.
snowboarding: Some injuries that are seen are "wrist injuries, shoulder soft tissue injuries, ankle injuries, concussions, and clavicle fractures".
snowboarding: Carving on a snowboard is like riding a roller coaster, because the board will lock into a turn radius and provide what feels like multiple Gs of acceleration.
snowboarding: There were 8.2 million snowboarders in the US and Canada for the 2009–2010 season.
snowboarding: Competitors perform tricks while descending a course, moving around, over, across, up, or down terrain features.
snowboarding: One of those early pioneers was Tom Sims, a devotee of skateboarding (a sport born in the 1950s when kids attached roller skate wheels to small boards that they steered by shifting their weight).
snowboarding: Snowboarding has been a Winter Olympic sport since 1998 Winter Olympics in Japan.
snowboarding: Part of the snowboarding approach is to ensure maximum fun, friendship and event quality.
snowboarding: Dubbed the "snurfer" (combining snow and surfer) by his wife Nancy, the toy proved so popular among his daughters' friends that Poppen licensed the idea to a manufacturer, Brunswick Corporation, that sold about a million snurfers over the next decade.
snowboarding: Indeed, for many years, there was animosity between skiers and snowboarders, which led to an ongoing feud between them.
snowboarding: The race, organized by Graves, was won by Burton's first team rider Doug Bouton.
snowboarding: Toe Edge
The edge that the riders' toes rest on
Nose Edge
The forward edge of the snowboard.
snowboarding: Conversely, snowboarders have a lower risk of knee injuries than skiers.
snowboarding: The racer must pass around the short side of the gate, passing the long side of the gate doesn't count.
snowboarding: Some of the larger snowboarding contests include: the European Air & Style, the Japanese X-Trail Jam, Burton Global Open Series, Shakedown, FIS World Championships, the annual FIS World Cup, the Winter X Games, Freeride World Tour and the Winter Dew Tour.
snowboarding: In 1979, Jake Burton Carpenter came from Vermont to compete with a snowboard of his own design.
snowboarding: However, overall impression and style can play a factor in winning a Slopestyle contest and the rider who lands the hardest tricks will not always win over the rider who lands easier tricks on more difficult paths.
snowboarding: The use of portable ultrasound for mountainside diagnostics has been reviewed and appears to be a plausible tool for diagnosing some of the common injuries associated with the sport.
snowboarding: Alpine Snowboard equipment includes a ski-like hardshell boot and plate binding system with a true directional snowboard that is stiffer and narrower to manage linking turns with greater forces and speed.
snowboarding: Very few people picked up snowboarding because the price of the board was considered too high at $38 and were not allowed on many ski hills, but eventually Burton would become the biggest snowboarding company in the business.
snowboarding: During the 2018 Winter Olympics, snowboarding events contested included big air, halfpipe, parallel giant slalom, slopestyle and snowboard cross.
snowboarding: When injured, snowboarders are twice as likely to get a fracture as skiers.
snowboarding: Burton's created the early designs for boards with bindings.
snowboarding: Snowboard binding rotating devices are designed to minimize the torque force, Quick Stance being the first developed in 1995.
snowboarding: Carvers make perfect half-circles out of each turn, changing edges when the snowboard is perpendicular to the fall line and starting every turn on the downhill edge.
snowboarding: The United States of America Snowboarding and Freeski Association (USASA), the first governing body for grassroots snowboarding, runs 30 regional series and national championships in the US.
snowboarding: Binding
The portion of the board that attaches the riders' feet to the snowboard.
snowboarding: Competitors perform tricks while going from one side to the other and while in the air above the sides of the pipe.
snowboarding: It has become a globally practiced activity with snowboarders using specialized equipment and techniques to navigate diverse terrain and conditions.
snowboarding: The "snowboards" were made of wooden planks that were flexible and had water ski foot traps.
snowboarding: Both the skiing and snowboarding cultures contrasted with each other in language, behavior, and dress.
snowboarding: The mechanical support provided by the feet being locked to the board has the effect of reducing the likelihood of knee injury – 15% of snowboard injuries are to the knee, compared with 45% of all skiing injuries.
