socialism: August Bebel's Woman under Socialism (1879), is the "single work dealing with sexuality most widely read by rank-and-file members of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD)".
socialism: Economic liberals and right-libertarians argue that private ownership of the means of production and market exchange are natural entities or moral rights which are central to freedom and liberty and argue that the economic dynamics of capitalism are immutable and absolute.
socialism: Academics sometimes recognised the mixed economies of several Western European and Nordic countries as "democratic socialist", although the system of these countries, with only limited social ownership (generally in the form of state ownership), is more usually described as social democracy.
socialism: Anarchism entails opposing authority or hierarchical organisation in the conduct of human relations, including the state system.
socialism: In contrast to Karl Marx's perspective of the state, Lassalle rejected the concept of the state as a class-based power structure whose main function was to preserve existing class structures.
socialism: The International Workers' Association is an international federation of anarcho-syndicalist labour unions and initiatives.
socialism: libertarian) society in which people manage their own affairs, either as individuals or as part of a group (depending on the situation).
socialism: Syndicalists reject state power in favour of strategies such as the general strike.
socialism: In the officially sanctioned textbooks describing the socialist planned economies as they existed in the 1980s, it was claimed as follows:
socialism: In the early 1960s, 40% of chemistry PhDs in the Soviet Union were attained by women, compared with only 5% in the United States.
socialism: In the 1970s, Barry Commoner, claimed that capitalist technologies were chiefly responsible for environmental degradation as opposed to population pressures.
socialism: By 1988, GDP per person, measured at purchasing power parity in US dollars, was $7,519 in Russia and $6,304 for the USSR.
socialism: The International Bank for Economic Cooperation had no means of converting a country's trade surplus into an option to buy goods and services from other CMEA members.
socialism: In 1989, the Soviet Union saw the end of communism, marked by the Revolutions of 1989 across Eastern Europe, culminating in the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.
socialism: wanted what would become known as a mixed economy."
Nationalisation in the United Kingdom was achieved through compulsory purchase of the industry (i.e.
socialism: Yet, 41% of Americans more generally had a positive view of socialism compared to 52% of those who viewing socialism more negatively.
socialism: While there are many variations of socialism, and there is no single definition encapsulating all of socialism, there have been common elements identified by scholars.
socialism: The "extensive" growth model was retarding growth in the CMEA as a whole, with member countries dependent upon supplies of raw materials from the USSR and upon the Soviet market for sales of goods.
socialism: The other side of socialism is a more democratic socialism from below.
socialism: A main innovation of Aflaq's thought was the transformation of Arab unity from an intellectual ideal into a real-world political pursuit of rights alongside a new set of socioeconomic conditions.
socialism: Socialist feminism is a branch of feminism that argues that liberation can only be achieved by working to end both economic and cultural sources of women's oppression.
socialism: A multitude of polls have found significant levels of support for socialism among modern populations.
socialism: Specifically, 68% of respondents favoured the nationalisation of water services, 65% supporting the nationalisation of the railways, 63% supporting the public ownership of power networks and 39% favouring broadband access which is operated by the government.
socialism: He is known for his involvement in the founding of gay organisations, including the Mattachine Society, the first sustained gay rights group in the United States which in its early days reflected a strong Marxist influence.
socialism: Modern democratic socialism is a broad political movement that seeks to promote the ideals of socialism within the context of a democratic system.
socialism: Socialists have adopted the causes of other social movements such as environmentalism, feminism and progressivism.
socialism: Market socialism consists of publicly owned or cooperatively owned enterprises operating in a market economy.
socialism: In the 1990s socialist/feminists Mary Mellor and Ariel Salleh adopt an eco-socialist paradigm.
socialism: They have been categorised as religious socialists by some.
socialism: Although central planning was largely supported by Marxist–Leninists, some factions within the Soviet Union before the rise of Stalinism held positions contrary to central planning.
socialism: Enterprise managers also ignored inducements to introduce labour-saving measures as they wished to retain a reserve of personnel to be available to meet their production target by working at top speed when supplies were delayed.
socialism: In the biography of the 1945 United Kingdom Labour Party Prime Minister Clement Attlee, Francis Beckett states: "[T]he government ...
socialism: In the USSR the area of residential accommodation was 15.5 square meters per person by 1990 in urban areas but 15 percent of the population were without their own separate accommodation and had to live in communal apartments according to the 1989 census.
socialism: "Socialism" .
socialism: Soviet authorities proved their commitment to Lenin's belief by developing massive networks and research and development organizations.
socialism: In other countries, left-wing revivals have taken place within mainstream democratic socialist and centrist parties, as with Jeremy Corbyn in the United Kingdom and Bernie Sanders in the United States.
socialism: Modern social democracy emphasises a program of gradual legislative modification of capitalism to make it more equitable and humane while the theoretical end goal of building a socialist society is relegated to the indefinite future.
socialism: Joseph Schumpeter rejected the association of socialism and social ownership with state ownership over the means of production because the state as it exists in its current form is a product of capitalist society and cannot be transplanted to a different institutional framework.
socialism: With no need for capital accumulation and a class of owners, private property in the means of production is perceived as being an outdated form of economic organisation that should be replaced by a free association of individuals based on public or common ownership of these socialised assets.
socialism: In other words, it implies self-management in all aspects of life", including at the workplace.
socialism: This system substituted Yugoslavia's Soviet-type central planning with a decentralised, self-managed system after reforms in 1953.
socialism: Yugoslavia implemented a market socialist economy based on cooperatives and worker self-management.
socialism: Islamic socialism is a more spiritual form of socialism.
socialism: In the Spanish Civil War, an anarcha-feminist group, Mujeres Libres ("Free Women") linked to the Federación Anarquista Ibérica, organised to defend both anarchist and feminist ideas.
socialism: His work The Intermediate Sex: A Study of Some Transitional Types of Men and Women was a 1908 book arguing for gay liberation.
socialism: These criticisms have been incorporated into the models of market socialism developed by John Roemer and Nicholas Vrousalis.
socialism: In his Dictionary of Socialism (1924), Angelo S.
socialism: Milton Friedman argued that the absence of private economic activity would enable political leaders to grant themselves coercive powers, powers that, under a capitalist system, would instead be granted by a capitalist class, which Friedman found preferable.
socialism: Housing was generally of good quality in both the CEE/CIS region and in the OECD countries: 98 and 99 percent of the population in the OECD countries had access to safe drinking water and improved sanitation respectively, compared to 93 and 85 percent in the CEE/CIS area by 1990.
socialism: In 2023, the Fraser Institute published findings which found that 42% of Canadians viewed socialism as the ideal system compared to 43% of British respondents, 40% Australian respondents and 31% American respondents.
socialism: After the Russian Revolution under the leadership of Lenin and Trotsky, the Soviet Union abolished previous laws against homosexuality.
socialism: Some definitions simply refer to all forms of socialism that follow an electoral, reformist or evolutionary path to socialism rather than a revolutionary one.
socialism: Arab socialism (Arabic: الإشتِراكيّة العربية, romanized: Al-Ishtirākīya Al-'Arabīya) is a political ideology based on the combination of pan-Arabism or Arab nationalism and socialism.
socialism: One such system is the cooperative economy, a largely free market economy in which workers manage the firms and democratically determine remuneration levels and labour divisions.
socialism: Following the revolutions of 1989, many of these countries moved away from socialism as a neoliberal consensus replaced the social democratic consensus in the advanced capitalist world.
socialism: Socialist systems are divided into non-market and market forms.
socialism: It considers both liberty and social equality to be compatible and mutually dependent.
socialism: Following the victory of Leninism in Russia, the idea of "state socialism" spread rapidly throughout the socialist movement and eventually state socialism came to be identified with the Soviet economic model.
socialism: Positivism held that both the natural and social worlds could be understood through scientific knowledge and be analysed using scientific methods.
socialism: The role and use of money in a hypothetical socialist economy is a contested issue.
socialism: While democrats looked to the Revolutions of 1848 as a democratic revolution which in the long run ensured liberty, equality, and fraternity, Marxists denounced it as a betrayal of working-class ideals by a bourgeoisie indifferent to the proletariat.
socialism: For Marx and Engels, conditions determine consciousness and ending the role of the capitalist class leads eventually to a classless society in which the state would wither away.
socialism: It promotes extending democratic decision-making beyond political democracy to include economic democracy to guarantee employees and other economic stakeholders sufficient rights of co-determination.
socialism: Furthermore, everything that people produce is in some sense a social product, and everyone who contributes to the production of a good is entitled to a share in it.
socialism: A 2018 IPSOS poll found that 50% of the respondents globally strongly or somewhat agreed that present socialist values were of great value for societal progress.
socialism: Anarcho-syndicalism views syndicalism as a method for workers in capitalist society to gain control of an economy.
socialism: Many sprang from left radicalism more than established homophile groups, although the Gay Liberation Front took an anti-capitalist stance and attacked the nuclear family and traditional gender roles.
socialism: Similarly, modern intentional communities based on socialist ideas could also be categorised as "utopian socialist".
socialism: The Marxian economist Richard D.
socialism: Some argued that capitalism had been abolished.
socialism: However, a consistent and defining theme among these theories is the notion that traditional African cultures and community structures have a natural inclination toward socialist principles.
socialism: Contrary to the depiction of Karl Marx by some environmentalists, social ecologists and fellow socialists as a productivist who favoured the domination of nature, eco-socialists revisited Marx's writings and believe that he "was a main originator of the ecological world-view".
socialism: Others found "clear differences" between the three terms and prefer to describe their own political beliefs by using the term social democracy.
socialism: The poll also found broad levels of support among traditional Labour and Conservative voters.
socialism: A planned economy is a type of economy consisting of a mixture of public ownership of the means of production and the coordination of production and distribution through economic planning.
socialism: An important early influence was Henry David Thoreau and his book Walden as well as Élisée Reclus.
socialism: The reduction of necessary labour time to a minimum would grant individuals the opportunity to pursue the development of their true individuality and creativity.
socialism: An early distinction between communism and socialism was that the latter aimed to only socialise production while the former aimed to socialise both production and consumption (in the form of free access to final goods).
socialism: The OGAS project was conceived to oversee a nationwide information network but was never implemented due to conflicting, bureaucratic interests.
socialism: Opponents of this view, including supporters of socialism, state that these killings were aberrations caused by specific authoritarian regimes rather than socialism itself.
socialism: As an example, Wolff claims that Mondragon is "a stunningly successful alternative to the capitalist organisation of production".
socialism: Few of these radical left parties have won national government in Europe, while some more mainstream socialist parties have managed to, such as Portugal's Socialist Party.
socialism: Anarcho-syndicalist Gaston Leval explained:
socialism: Money had to exhaust its "historic mission", meaning it would have to be used until its function became redundant, eventually being transformed into bookkeeping receipts for statisticians and only in the more distant future would money not be required for even that role.
socialism: In the late 19th century, anarcho-naturism fused anarchism and naturist philosophies within individualist anarchist circles in France, Spain, Cuba and Portugal.
socialism: Lassalle considered the state to be an entity independent of class allegiances and an instrument of justice that would therefore be essential for achieving socialism.
socialism: Enterprises faced a resource constraint and hoarded labour and other inputs and avoided sub-contracting intermediate production activities, preferring to retain the work in-house.
socialism: Muslim socialists are more conservative than their Western contemporaries and find their roots in anti-imperialism, anti-colonialism and sometimes, if in an Arab speaking country, Arab nationalism.
socialism: Anarchism advocates stateless societies often defined as self-governed voluntary institutions, but that several authors have defined as more specific institutions based on non-hierarchical free associations.
socialism: Compulsory unemployment insurance schemes operated in Bulgaria, Eastern Germany and Hungary but the numbers claiming support as a result of losing their job through no fault of their own numbered a few hundred a year.
socialism: Russell opposed the class struggle aspects of Marxism, viewing socialism solely as an adjustment of economic relations to accommodate modern machine production to benefit all of humanity through the progressive reduction of necessary work time.
socialism: By 1968, the prolonged Vietnam War gave rise to the New Left, socialists who tended to be critical of the Soviet Union and social democracy.
socialism: Enterprises in socialist planned economies operated within a "soft" budget constraint, unlike enterprises in capitalist market economies which are demand-constrained and operate within "hard" budget constraints, as they face bankruptcy if their costs exceed their sales.
socialism: New International Encyclopedia.
socialism: Writing before the advent of the term "homosexuality", Fourier recognised that both men and women have a wide range of sexual needs and preferences which may change throughout their lives, including same-sex sexuality and androgénité.
socialism: It rejects state socialism and the use of establishment politics.
socialism: Socialist has been used by members of the political right as an epithet, including against individuals who do not consider themselves to be socialists and against policies that are not considered socialist by their proponents.
socialism: Cole and influenced by the ideas of William Morris.
socialism: The notion that 'socialism' and 'communism' are distinct historical stages is alien to his work and only entered the lexicon of Marxism after his death".
socialism: Anarcho-syndicalism was practised in Catalonia and other places in the Spanish Revolution during the Spanish Civil War.
socialism: It is often used in this manner to refer to Western and Northern Europe during the later half of the 20th century.
socialism: As a result, central planners would be unable to respond to local economic conditions.
socialism: Reformism is criticized for being paradoxical as it seeks to overcome the existing economic system of capitalism while trying to improve the conditions of capitalism, thereby making it appear more tolerable to society.
socialism: Peter Self criticized the aims of socialism, arguing that equality erodes away at individual diversities and that the establishment of an equal society would have to entail strong coercion.
socialism: State socialism can be used to classify any variety of socialist philosophies that advocates the ownership of the means of production by the state apparatus, either as a transitional stage between capitalism and socialism, or as an end-goal in itself.
socialism: It supports a mixed economy that opposes inequality, poverty and oppression while rejecting both a totally unregulated market economy or a fully planned economy.
socialism: They draw comparisons to killings, famines and excess deaths under capitalism, colonialism and anti-communist authoritarian governments.
socialism: Libertarian socialism asserts that a society based on freedom and equality can be achieved through abolishing authoritarian institutions that control production.
socialism: Religious sects whose members live communally such as the Hutterites are not usually called "utopian socialists", although their way of living is a prime example.
socialism: Integral to the scheme was the establishment of a mutual-credit bank that would lend to producers at a minimal interest rate, just high enough to cover administration.
socialism: In state-oriented forms of market socialism, in which state enterprises attempt to maximise profit, the profits can be used to fund government programs and services through a social dividend, eliminating or greatly diminishing the need for various forms of taxation that exist in capitalist systems.
socialism: Some studies and surveys indicate that people tend to live happier and healthier lives in social democratic societies rather than neoliberal ones.
socialism: Overall support for socialism ranged from 50% of Canadians 18–24 year olds to 28% of Canadians over 55.
socialism: In The Concepts of Socialism (1975), Bhikhu Parekh identifies four core principles of socialism and particularly socialist society, namely sociality, social responsibility, cooperation and planning.
socialism: Another form of decentralised planning is the use of cybernetics, or the use of computers to manage the allocation of economic inputs.
socialism: According to political scientist Baruch Knei-Paz in his book The Social and Political Thought of Leon Trotsky, this represented one of several distinctions between Trotsky's approach on cultural matters and Stalin's policy in the 1930s.
socialism: The history of socialism has its origins in the Age of Enlightenment and the 1789 French Revolution, along with the changes that brought, although it has precedents in earlier movements and ideas.
socialism: Revolutionary socialists believe that a social revolution is necessary to effect structural changes to the socioeconomic structure of society.
socialism: By the late 19th century, after the work of Karl Marx and his collaborator Friedrich Engels, socialism had come to signify anti-capitalism and advocacy for a post-capitalist system based on some form of social ownership of the means of production.
socialism: In the UK, Herbert Morrison said that "socialism is what the Labour government does" whereas Aneurin Bevan argued socialism requires that the "main streams of economic activity are brought under public direction", with an economic plan and workers' democracy.
socialism: In terms of education, the two areas enjoyed universal adult literacy and full enrolment of children in primary and secondary schools.
socialism: Anarcho-syndicalists and some elements of the New Left and others favoured decentralised collective ownership in the form of cooperatives or workers' councils.
socialism: Other critiques are directed at the socialist movement, parties, or existing states.
socialism: Hal Draper defined socialism from above as the philosophy which employs an elite administration to run the socialist state.
socialism: The effect of this was to preserve a high level of employment.
socialism: the economic structure of society) which give rise to observed social problems and inefficiencies.
socialism: British moral philosopher John Stuart Mill discussed a form of economic socialism within free market.
socialism: Several scholars state that in practice, the Soviet model functioned as a form of state capitalism.
socialism: Socialist groups have also been closely involved with a number of counter-cultural movements such as Vietnam Solidarity Campaign, Stop the War Coalition, Love Music Hate Racism, Anti-Nazi League and Unite Against Fascism.
socialism: ISSN 2161-0002.
socialism: It was strongly associated with G.
socialism: The current economic system in China is formally referred to as a socialist market economy with Chinese characteristics.
socialism: In 1972, the Chicago Women's Liberation Union published "Socialist Feminism: A Strategy for the Women's Movement", which is believed to be the first published use of the term "socialist feminism".
socialism: Prices on the black market were several times higher than in the official price-controlled outlets, reflecting the scarcity and possible illegality of the sale of these items.
socialism: This latter word could mean companionship and fellowship as well as the more legalistic idea of a consensual contract between freemen".
socialism: Therefore, Leninists argue that it is historically necessary for a vanguard of class conscious revolutionaries to take a central role in coordinating the social revolution to overthrow the capitalist state and eventually the institution of the state altogether.
socialism: Infant mortality in the CEE/CIS area was 25 for every 1,000 live births in 1990, compared to 13 in the OECD area.
socialism: Common social democratic policies include universal social rights and universally accessible public services such as education, health care, workers' compensation and other services, including child care and elder care.
socialism: Principles that can be described as ethical or liberal socialist have been based upon or developed by philosophers such as John Stuart Mill, Eduard Bernstein, John Dewey, Carlo Rosselli, Norberto Bobbio, and Chantal Mouffe.
socialism: As all producers were working in a resource-constrained economy they were perpetually in short supply and the shortages could never be eliminated, leading to chronic disruption of production schedules.
socialism: Peter Marshall argues that "[i]n general anarchism is closer to socialism than liberalism.
socialism: The proportion of people changing jobs was between 6 and 13 percent of the labour force a year according to employment data during the 1970s and 1980s in Central and Eastern Europe and the USSR.
socialism: The idea of socialism from above is much more frequently discussed in elite circles than socialism from below—even if that is the Marxist ideal—because it is more practical.
socialism: It holds that socialist revolution should be carried out by a relatively small group of highly organised and secretive conspirators.
socialism: As a political force, socialist parties and ideas exercise varying degrees of power and influence, heading national governments in several countries.
socialism: Thus, on the basis of IMF estimates, national income (GDP) per person in the CEE/CIS area was 43 percent of that in the OECD area.
socialism: In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, both Clara Zetkin and Eleanor Marx were against the demonisation of men and supported a proletariat revolution that would overcome as many male-female inequalities as possible.
socialism: Critics of socialism have argued that in any society where everyone holds equal wealth, there can be no material incentive to work because one does not receive rewards for a work well done.
socialism: XXII (9th ed.).
socialism: Mainstream social democratic and socialist parties are also networked in Europe in the Party of European Socialists formed in 1992.
socialism: British Aerospace was a combination of major aircraft companies British Aircraft Corporation, Hawker Siddeley and others.
socialism: As the supply of consumer goods failed to match rising incomes (because workers still received their pay even if they were not fully productive), household savings accumulated, indicating, in the official terminology, "postponed demand".
socialism: who was an influential personality in the foundation of the Fabian Society and the Labour Party.
socialism: On the other hand, democratic socialists seek to replace capitalism with a socialist economic system, arguing that any attempt to humanise capitalism through regulations and welfare policies would distort the market and create economic contradictions.
socialism: The state, along with concepts like property and taxation, were concepts exclusive to commercial society (capitalism) and attempting to place them within the context of a future socialist society would amount to a distortion of these concepts by using them out of context.
socialism: Similarly, Trotsky viewed the party as transmitters of culture to the masses for raising the standards of education, as well as entry into the cultural sphere, but that the process of artistic creation in terms of language and presentation should be the domain of the practitioner.
socialism: Central planning is also criticized by elements of the radical left.
socialism: Liberal socialism incorporates liberal principles to socialism.
socialism: Therefore, although consumer welfare was reduced by shortages, the prices households paid for their regular consumption were lower than would have been the case had prices been set at market-clearing levels.
socialism: Schumpeter argued that there would be different institutions within socialism than those that exist within modern capitalism, just as feudalism had its own distinct and unique institutional forms.
socialism: Bolshevik revolutionary Leon Trotsky argued that money could not be arbitrarily abolished following a socialist revolution.
socialism: Historian William Blum highlights that the historical record of twentieth-century socialist experiments cannot be evaluated in isolation from external interference.
socialism: The original utopian socialists condemned this doctrine of individualism for failing to address social concerns during the Industrial Revolution, including poverty, oppression, and vast wealth inequality.
socialism: Muslim socialists believe that the teachings of the Quran and Muhammad are not only compatible with, but actively promoting the principles of equality and public ownership, drawing inspiration from the early Medina welfare state he established.
socialism: Every citizen had a right in practice to take part in discussing and solving any problems in the life of the enterprise, region, republic and the country they lived in, including the rights to free speech, of assembly and to demonstrate.
socialism: Sam Dolgoff estimated that about eight million people participated directly or at least indirectly in the Spanish Revolution.
socialism: According to anarchists such as the authors of An Anarchist FAQ, anarchism is one of the many traditions of socialism.
socialism: In contrast, Mark J.
socialism: Other important liberal socialist figures include Guido Calogero, Piero Gobetti, Leonard Trelawny Hobhouse, John Maynard Keynes and R.
socialism: In essence, social welfare policies cripple capitalism and its incentive system and are thus unsustainable in the long run.
socialism: Many socialists were early advocates of LGBT rights.
socialism: Socialist economics starts from the premise that "individuals do not live or work in isolation but live in cooperation with one another.
socialism: Tucker noted that the fact that the authoritarian "State Socialism has overshadowed other forms of Socialism gives it no right to a monopoly of the Socialistic idea".
socialism: Although the emergence of the Soviet Union as the world's first nominally socialist state led to the widespread association of socialism with the Soviet economic model, the term has since shifted to be associated with democratic socialism.
socialism: According to Draper, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels were devoutly opposed to any socialist institution that was "conducive to superstitious authoritarianism".
socialism: Some economists, such as Joseph Stiglitz, Mancur Olson, and others not specifically advancing anti-socialists positions have shown that prevailing economic models upon which such democratic or market socialism models might be based have logical flaws or unworkable presuppositions.
socialism: Some forms of criticism occupy theoretical grounds, such as in the economic calculation problem presented by proponents of the Austrian School as part of the socialist calculation debate, while others support their criticism by examining historical attempts to establish socialist societies.
socialism: Most social democratic parties are affiliated with the Socialist International.
socialism: We therefore foresee a Society in which all activities will be coordinated, a structure that has, at the same time, sufficient flexibility to permit the greatest possible autonomy for social life, or for the life of each enterprise, and enough cohesiveness to prevent all disorder.
socialism: It has been compared to post-war social democracy for its support of a mixed economy that includes both public and private capital goods.
socialism: Pierson further claims that "social democratic and socialist parties within the constitutional arena in the West have almost always been involved in a politics of compromise with existing capitalist institutions (to whatever far distant prize its eyes might from time to time have been lifted)".
socialism: They also point out that this process generates wasteful industries and practices that exist only to generate sufficient demand for products such as high-pressure advertisement to be sold at a profit, thereby creating rather than satisfying economic demand.
socialism: Bertrand Russell, often considered to be the father of analytic philosophy, identified as a socialist.
socialism: According to Arthur Lipow, Marx and Engels were "the founders of modern revolutionary democratic socialism", described as a form of "socialism from below" that is "based on a mass working-class movement, fighting from below for the extension of democracy and human freedom".
socialism: English socialist William Morris is credited with developing principles of what was later called eco-socialism.
socialism: It describes the economic, political, and social theories and movements associated with the implementation of such systems.
socialism: Saint-Simon proposed economic planning, scientific administration and the application of scientific understanding to the organisation of society.
socialism: He argued that all sexual expressions should be enjoyed as long as people are not abused and that "affirming one's difference" can actually enhance social integration.
socialism: Its members were associated with the pink tide of left-wing governments on the continent in the early 21st century.
socialism: The first variant advances democratic socialism through reformist and gradualist methods.
socialism: The current Chinese economy consists of 150 corporatised state-owned enterprises that report directly to China's central government.
socialism: Market socialism retains the use of monetary prices, factor markets and sometimes the profit motive.
socialism: By 1888, Marxists employed socialism in place of communism as the latter had come to be considered an old-fashioned synonym for socialism.
socialism: By contrast, Robert Owen proposed to organise production and ownership via cooperatives.
socialism: The most prominent example of a planned economy was the economic system of the Soviet Union and as such the centralised-planned economic model is usually associated with the communist states of the 20th century, where it was combined with a single-party political system.
socialism: Many forms of socialist theory hold that human behaviour is largely shaped by the social environment.
socialism: A socialist form of organisation would eliminate controlling hierarchies so that only a hierarchy based on technical knowledge in the workplace remains.
socialism: In Europe, the share of votes for such socialist parties was at its 70-year lowest in 2015.
socialism: Ethical socialism appeals to socialism on ethical and moral grounds as opposed to economic, egoistic, and consumeristic grounds.
socialism: Edward Carpenter actively campaigned for homosexual rights.
socialism: Many social democrats refer to themselves as socialists or democratic socialists and some such as Tony Blair employ these terms interchangeably.
socialism: Marx and Engels used the terms socialism and communism interchangeably, but many later Marxists defined socialism as a specific historical phase that would displace capitalism and precede communism.
socialism: Eco-socialism is a political strain merging aspects of socialism, Marxism or libertarian socialism with green politics, ecology and alter-globalisation.
socialism: The two main directions were to establish democratic socialism or to build first a welfare state within the capitalist system.
socialism: The object of their critique is thus not human avarice or human consciousness, but the material conditions and man-made social systems (i.e.
socialism: As each member state was reluctant to give up national self-sufficiency the CMEA's efforts to encourage specialization was thwarted.
socialism: As their movement already had the most radical demands in women's equality, most Marxist leaders, including Clara Zetkin and Alexandra Kollontai, counterposed Marxism against liberal feminism rather than trying to combine them.
socialism: In the 1980s, the Soviet Union had more scientists and engineers relative to the world's population than any other major country, owing to strong levels of state support.
socialism: Data collected by the United Nations of indicators of human development in the early 1990s show that a high level of social development was achieved in the former socialist planned economies of Central and Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CEE/CIS).
socialism: Trotsky viewed himself to be an adherent of Leninism but opposed the bureaucratic and authoritarian methods of Stalin.
socialism: Blum argues that:[E]very socialist experiment of any significance in the twentieth century – without exception – has either been crushed, overthrown, or invaded, or corrupted, perverted, subverted, or destabilized, or otherwise had life made impossible for it, by the United States.
socialism: For early socialist Charles Fourier, true freedom could only occur without suppressing passions, as the suppression of passions is not only destructive to the individual, but to society as a whole.
socialism: Such accumulation and reinvestment, when it demands a constant rate of profit, causes problems if the earnings in the rest of society do not increase in proportion.
socialism: Some of the economic reforms introduced during the Prague Spring by Alexander Dubček, the leader of Czechoslovakia, included elements of market socialism.
socialism: Private ownership imposes constraints on planning, leading to uncoordinated economic decisions that result in business fluctuations, unemployment and a tremendous waste of material resources during crisis of overproduction.
socialism: The CMEA was supposed to ensure coordination of national plans but it failed even to develop a common methodology for planning which could be adopted by its member states.
socialism: Libertarian socialists generally prefer direct democracy and federal or confederal associations such as libertarian municipalism, citizens' assemblies, trade unions and workers' councils.
socialism: As one of the main ideologies on the political spectrum, socialism is the standard left-wing ideology in most countries.
socialism: Within socialism, reformism is used in two different ways.
socialism: By the early 1920s, communism and social democracy had become the two dominant political tendencies within the international socialist movement, with socialism itself becoming the most influential secular movement of the 20th century.
socialism: Social democrats advocate a peaceful, evolutionary transition of the economy to socialism through progressive social reform.
socialism: with compensation).
socialism: There are numerous variations of self-management, including labour-managed firms and worker-managed firms.
socialism: Many commentators on the political right point to the mass killings under communist regimes, claiming them as an indictment of socialism.
socialism: For tertiary education, the CEE/CIS had 2,600 university students per 100,000 population, while in the OECD the comparable figure was 3,550 students.
socialism: In particular, socialism holds that social mores, values, cultural traits and economic practices are social creations and not the result of an immutable natural law.
socialism: Murray Bookchin's first book Our Synthetic Environment was followed by his essay "Ecology and Revolutionary Thought" which introduced ecology as a concept in radical politics.
socialism: Soviet scholar Robert Bird considered his work as the "first systematic treatment of art by a Communist leader" and a catalyst for later, Marxist cultural and critical theories.
socialism: Workers would be remunerated solely according to effort and sacrifice, so that those engaged in dangerous, uncomfortable and strenuous work would receive the highest incomes and could thereby work less.
socialism: It was described by Jerry Mander as "hybrid economics", an active collaboration of capitalist and socialist visions.
socialism: This model has found support in notable classical and neoclassical economists including Alfred Marshall, John Stuart Mill and Jaroslav Vanek.
socialism: In the second variant, social democracy is a policy regime involving a welfare state, collective bargaining schemes, support for publicly financed public services and a mixed economy.
socialism: Variations of market socialism include libertarian proposals such as mutualism, based on classical economics, and neoclassical economic models such as the Lange model.
socialism: Some democratic socialists support social democracy as a temporary measure to reform the current system while others reject reformism in favour of more revolutionary methods.
socialism: Several African countries adopted socialist systems from the 1950s to mid-1980s (~35 out of ~50-53 countries at the time).
socialism: Tucker's two socialisms were the authoritarian state socialism which he associated to the Marxist school and the libertarian anarchist socialism, or simply anarchism, that he advocated.
socialism: Michael Newman includes anarchism as one of many socialist traditions.
socialism: Socialism is also attributed in France to Marie Roch Louis Reybaud while in Britain it is attributed to Owen, who became one of the fathers of the cooperative movement.
socialism: A 2023 IPSOS poll found that a majority of British public favoured public ownership of utilities including water, rail and electricity.
socialism: The Soviet Union placed great emphasis on science and technology.
socialism: Management and control over the activities of enterprises are based on self-management and self-governance, with equal power-relations in the workplace to maximise occupational autonomy.
socialism: According to Christopher Pierson, "[i]f the contrast which 1989 highlights is not that between socialism in the East and liberal democracy in the West, the latter must be recognised to have been shaped, reformed and compromised by a century of social democratic pressure".
socialism: Eco-socialists generally claim that the expansion of the capitalist system is the cause of social exclusion, poverty, war and environmental degradation through globalisation and imperialism under the supervision of repressive states and transnational structures.
socialism: Encyclopædia Britannica.
socialism: Initial use of socialism was claimed by Pierre Leroux, who alleged he first used the term in the Parisian journal Le Globe in 1832.
socialism: Orthodox Marxists and left communists take an impossibilist stance, believing that revolution should be spontaneous as a result of contradictions in society due to technological changes in the productive forces.
socialism: They presented socialism as an alternative to liberal individualism based on the shared ownership of resources.
socialism: The establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, saw socialism introduced.
socialism: Overall enrolment at primary, secondary and tertiary levels was 75 percent in the CEE/CIS region and 82 percent in the OECD countries.
socialism: There were very few joint ventures and therefore little intra-enterprise technology transfer and trade, which in the capitalist world was often undertaken by trans-national corporations.
socialism: Unemployment did not exist officially in the socialist planned economies, though there were people between jobs and a fraction of unemployable people as a result of illness, disability or other problems, such as alcoholism.
socialism: Despite the rhetoric about modernization, innovation remained weak as enterprise managers preferred routine production that was easier to plan and brought them predictable bonuses.
socialism: As part of the larger socialist movement, it seeks to distinguish itself from Bolshevism, Leninism and Marxism–Leninism as well as social democracy.
socialism: In Protestant England, communism was too close to the Roman Catholic communion rite, hence socialist was the preferred term.
socialism: Under Stalin, the Soviet government persecuted geneticists in favour of Lysenkoism, a pseudoscience rejected by the scientific community in the Soviet Union and abroad but supported by Stalin's inner circles.
socialism: Early socialists (utopian socialists and Ricardian socialists) criticised capitalism for concentrating power and wealth within a small segment of society.
socialism: China established a self-sufficient and self-reliant economy that was state-led and focused on rapid industrialization.
socialism: Socialists view private property relations as limiting the potential of productive forces in the economy.
socialism: Society as whole, therefore, should own or at least control property for the benefit of all its members".
socialism: The other is based on the assumption that while reforms are not socialist in themselves, they can help rally supporters to the cause of revolution by popularizing the cause of socialism to the working class.
socialism: While major socialist political movements include anarchism, communism, the labour movement, Marxism, social democracy, and syndicalism, independent socialist theorists, utopian socialist authors, and academic supporters of socialism may not be represented in these movements.
socialism: The organisation states the aim of becoming the global network of "the progressive, democratic, social-democratic, socialist and labour movement".
socialism: Lenin believed the USSR would never overtake the developed world if it remained as technologically backward as it was upon its founding.
socialism: The socialist-run government of Salvador Allende in Chile experimented with Project Cybersyn, a real-time information bridge between the government, state enterprises and consumers.
socialism: As such, they also argue that public ownership of the means of production and economic planning are infringements upon liberty.
socialism: Productive resources would be legally owned by the cooperative and rented to the workers, who would enjoy usufruct rights.
socialism: Socialism contrasted with the liberal doctrine of individualism that emphasized the moral worth of the individual while stressing that people act or should act as if they are in isolation from one another.
socialism: Enrico Barone provided a comprehensive theoretical framework for a planned socialist economy.
socialism: However, due to rigid state planning and bureaucracy, the Soviets remained far behind the First World in chemistry, biology, and computer science.
socialism: Instead of conscious planning, the Soviet economy was based on a process whereby the plan was modified by localised agents and the original plans went largely unfulfilled.
socialism: This branch of socialism produced the communist work of Étienne Cabet in France and Wilhelm Weitling in Germany.
socialism: A non-market socialist system seeks to eliminate the perceived inefficiencies, irrationalities, unpredictability, and crises that socialists traditionally associate with capital accumulation and the profit system.
socialism: The authoritarian–libertarian struggles and disputes within the socialist movement go back to the First International and the expulsion in 1872 of the anarchists, who went on to lead the Anti-authoritarian International and then founded their own libertarian international, the Anarchist St.
socialism: Some critics of socialism argue that income sharing reduces individual incentives to work and therefore incomes should be individualized as much as possible.
socialism: In 1990, the São Paulo Forum was launched by the Workers' Party (Brazil), linking left-wing socialist parties in Latin America.
socialism: It is a system that uses the market and monetary prices for the allocation and accounting of the means of production, thereby retaining the process of capital accumulation.
socialism: Islamic socialists believe in deriving legitimacy from political mandate as opposed to religious texts.
socialism: He viewed both elements to be interrelated components as part of dialectical interaction in which he viewed the low level of Russian technique and expertise to be a function of cultural backwardness.
socialism: Typically, it refers to a form of technocratic management, whereby technical specialists administer or manage economic enterprises on behalf of society and the public interest instead of workers' councils or workplace democracy.
socialism: Harry Hay was an early leader in the American LGBT rights movement as well as a member of the Communist Party USA.
socialism: Kirkup, Thomas (1887).
socialism: According to Lesigne, there are two types of socialism: "One is dictatorial, the other libertarian".
socialism: The Communist Manifesto was written by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels in 1847–48 just before the Revolutions of 1848 swept Europe, expressing what they termed scientific socialism.
socialism: The two movements are widely similar both in terminology and in ideology, although there are a few key differences.
socialism: Lassalle also rejected the Marxist view that the state was destined to "wither away".
socialism: Some Marxist currents advocate syndicalism, such as De Leonism.
socialism: In the last third of the 19th century parties dedicated to Democratic socialism arose in Europe, drawing mainly from Marxism.
socialism: Rosa Luxemburg and Eduard Bernstein criticised Lenin, stating that his conception of revolution was elitist and Blanquist.
socialism: All of this is typically done within a general call for libertarian and voluntary free associations through the identification, criticism and practical dismantling of illegitimate authority in all aspects of human life.
socialism: Socialist child care and elderly care systems allow citizens to take a more active role in building a socialist society, especially women.
socialism: This conflict between collective effort in large factories and private ownership would bring about a conscious desire in the working class to establish collective ownership commensurate with the collective efforts their daily experience.
socialism: According to Tucker, what those two schools of socialism had in common was the labor theory of value and the ends, by which anarchism pursued different means.
socialism: Socialist governments established the mixed economy with partial nationalisations and social welfare.
socialism: An "environmentalism of the poor" combining ecological awareness and social justice has also become prominent.
socialism: The Chinese economic model is widely cited as a contemporary form of state capitalism, the major difference between Western capitalism and the Chinese model being the degree of state-ownership of shares in publicly listed corporations.
socialism: By 1989, Soviet scientists were among the world's best-trained specialists in several areas, such as energy physics, selected areas of medicine, mathematics, welding, space technology, and military technologies.
socialism: The enterprise, according to the theory promulgated by János Kornai, was constrained by its resources not by the demand for its goods and services; nor was it constrained by its finances since the government was not likely to shut it down if it failed to meet its financial targets.
socialism: Upon seizing power, the revolutionaries introduce socialism.
socialism: Mutualism is an economic theory and anarchist school of thought that advocates a society where each person might possess a means of production, either individually or collectively, with trade representing equivalent amounts of labour in the free market.
socialism: Socialist realism was imposed under Stalin in artistic production and other creative industries such as music, film along with sports were subject to extreme levels of political control.
socialism: In a fully developed socialist economy, production and balancing factor inputs with outputs becomes a technical process to be undertaken by engineers.
socialism: Social ownership can take various forms, including public, community, collective, cooperative, or employee.
socialism: Pepper critiqued the current approach of many within green politics, particularly deep ecologists.
socialism: While distinct from the much broader tradition of socialist thought in the Arab world, which predates Arab socialism by as much as fifty years, direct influence and evolutions of his thought, Marxist or otherwise, were realized and expanded upon in countries like Syria, Egypt, Iraq and others.
socialism: They further argue that incentives increase productivity for all people and that the loss of those effects would lead to stagnation.
socialism: The decline in growth rates reflected a combination of diminishing returns to capital accumulation and low innovation as well as micro-economic inefficiencies, which a high rate of saving and investment was unable to counter.
socialism: Social democracy is a socialist tradition of political thought.
socialism: Some socialists feel that in a socialist economy, at least the "commanding heights" of the economy must be publicly owned.
socialism: Another philosophical basis for a great deal of early socialism was the emergence of positivism during the European Enlightenment.
socialism: Gamal Abdel Nasser's Egypt in particular served as a potent vehicle for Aflaq's thought, and would have to grapple with crises in the intellectual and military spheres.
socialism: In particular, he argued that cultural development would accentuate industrial and technical progress.
socialism: The Spanish Revolution was largely orchestrated by the anarcho-syndicalist trade union CNT.
socialism: It was these advances in the productive forces combined with the old social relations of production of capitalism that would generate contradictions, leading to working-class consciousness.
socialism: The decline of these mainstream parties opened space for more radical and populist left parties in some countries, such as Spain's Podemos, Greece's Syriza (in government, 2015–19), Germany's Die Linke, and France's La France Insoumise.
socialism: The economy of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia established a system based on market-based allocation, social ownership of the means of production and self-management within firms.
socialism: Blanquism is a conception of revolution named for Louis Auguste Blanqui.
socialism: Socialists argue that the accumulation of capital generates waste through externalities that require costly corrective regulatory measures.
socialism: Embargoes on high technology exports organized through the US-supported CoCom arrangement hampered technology transfer.
socialism: For actually existing liberal democracy is, in substantial part, a product of socialist (social democratic) forces".
socialism: Marxists argue that the establishment of a socialist mode of production is the only way to overcome these deficiencies.
socialism: Democratic socialism represents any socialist movement that seeks to establish an economy based on economic democracy by and for the working class.
socialism: Trotsky would later co-author the 1938 Manifesto for an Independent Revolutionary Art with the endorsement of prominent artists Andre Breton and Diego Rivera.
socialism: Marxist feminism's foundation was laid by Engels in The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State (1884).
socialism: One has no intention of bringing about socialism or fundamental economic change to society and is used to oppose such structural changes.
socialism: African socialism is a distinct variant of socialist theory developed in post-colonial Africa during the mid-20th century.
socialism: Bonar, James (1911).
socialism: Anarcha-feminism began with late 19th- and early 20th-century authors and theorists such as anarchist feminists Goldman and Voltairine de Cleyre.
socialism: On housing the main problem was over-crowding rather than homelessness in the socialist planned economies.
socialism: The profit generated would be used to directly remunerate employees, collectively sustain the enterprise or finance public institutions.
socialism: It was not until after the Bolshevik Revolution that socialism was appropriated by Vladimir Lenin to mean a stage between capitalism and communism.
socialism: Under conditions of "taut planning", the economy was expected to produce a volume of output higher than the reported capacity of enterprises and there was no "slack" in the system.
socialism: While anarchism holds the state to be undesirable, unnecessary or harmful, it is not the central aspect.
socialism: The debate on the ability for social democratic reformism to lead to a socialist transformation of society is over a century old.
socialism: Over the course of the 1980s it became clear that the CMEA area was "in crisis", although it remained viable economically and was not expected to collapse.
socialism: The socialist concept of individuality is intertwined with the concept of individual creative expression.
socialism: Reformism is the belief that socialists should stand in parliamentary elections within capitalist society and if elected use the machinery of government to pass political and social reforms for the purposes of ameliorating the instabilities and inequities of capitalism.
socialism: Mutualism is based on a labour theory of value that holds that when labour or its product is sold, in exchange it ought to receive goods or services embodying "the amount of labour necessary to produce an article of exactly similar and equal utility".
socialism: Anarchism finds itself largely in the socialist camp, but it also has outriders in liberalism.
socialism: The economic calculation problem concerns the feasibility and methods of resource allocation for a planned socialist system.
socialism: Socialism experienced a resurgence in popularity in the 2010s due to the 2008 global financial crisis.
socialism: Leon Trotsky rejected central planning in favour of decentralised planning.
socialism: According to Trotsky, Western industrial techniques and products such as the radio should not be rejected due to their status as a product of a capitalist system but rather absorbed into the Soviet socialist framework to facilitate new forms of techniques and cultural production.
socialism: Syndicalists advocate a socialist economy based on federated unions or syndicates of workers who own and manage the means of production.
socialism: In addition, they complained that capitalism does not use available technology and resources to their maximum potential in the interests of the public.
socialism: By 2008, these state-owned corporations had become increasingly dynamic and generated large increases in revenue for the state, resulting in a state-sector led recovery during the 2009 financial crises while accounting for most of China's economic growth.
socialism: Social democracy originated within the socialist movement, supporting economic and social interventions to promote social justice.
socialism: The related, more technical term in Roman and then medieval law was societas.
socialism: Socialism has been criticised in terms of its models of economic organization as well as its political and social implications.
socialism: It cannot be reduced to socialism, and is best seen as a separate and distinctive doctrine."
socialism: The economic systems of the Soviet Union and the Eastern Bloc are further classified as "command economies", which are defined as systems where economic coordination is undertaken by commands, directives and production targets.
socialism: "Socialism".
socialism: These corrective policies limit the incentive system of the market by providing things such as minimum wages, unemployment insurance, taxing profits and reducing the reserve army of labour, resulting in reduced incentives for capitalists to invest in more production.
socialism: In Christian Europe, communists were believed to have adopted atheism.
socialism: He argued that central planners, regardless of their intellectual capacity, would be unable to coordinate effectively all economic activity within an economy because they operated without the input and tacit knowledge embodied by the participation of the millions of people in the economy.
socialism: Trotsky's writings on literature such as his 1923 survey which advocated tolerance, limited censorship and respect for literary tradition had strong appeal to the New York Intellectuals.
socialism: OCLC 37741658.
socialism: Socialists have taken different perspectives on the state and the role it should play in revolutionary struggles, in constructing socialism and within an established socialist economy.
socialism: Engels wrote that in 1848, when The Communist Manifesto was published, socialism was respectable in Europe while communism was not.
socialism: In his model, assuming perfect computation techniques, simultaneous equations relating inputs and outputs to ratios of equivalence would provide appropriate valuations to balance supply and demand.
socialism: According to Sheri Berman, Marxism is loosely held to be valuable for its emphasis on changing the world for a more just, better future.
socialism: In "Problems of Everyday Life", a contemporaneous book which further articulated his views on culture and science, Trotsky argued that cultural development was a prerequisite for socialist reconstruction.
socialism: Influenced by Lenin, the Central Committee of the Bolshevik Party stated that the development of the socialist workers' culture should not be "hamstrung from above" and opposed the Proletkult (1917–1925) organisational control of the national culture.
socialism: According to The Oxford Handbook of Karl Marx, "Marx used many terms to refer to a post-capitalist society—positive humanism, socialism, communism, realm of free individuality, free association of producers, etc.
socialism: Western economists called this "monetary overhang" or "repressed inflation".
socialism: Many socialists also adopted the causes of other social movements, such as feminism, environmentalism, and progressivism.
socialism: Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels argued that socialism would emerge from historical necessity as capitalism rendered itself obsolete and unsustainable from increasing internal contradictions emerging from the development of the productive forces and technology.
socialism: According to socialists, private property becomes obsolete when it concentrates into centralised, socialised institutions not based on private appropriation of revenue—but based on cooperative work and internal planning in allocation of inputs—until the role of the capitalist becomes redundant.
socialism: Socialists view creativity as an essential aspect of human nature and define freedom as a state of being where individuals are able to express their creativity unhindered by constraints of both material scarcity and coercive social institutions.
socialism: According to Rosa Luxemburg, capitalism is not overthrown, "but is on the contrary strengthened by the development of social reforms".
socialism: Socialist politics have been internationalist and nationalist; organised through political parties and opposed to party politics; at times overlapping with trade unions and other times independent and critical of them, and present in industrialised and developing nations.
socialism: In a similar vein, Stan Parker of the Socialist Party of Great Britain argues that reforms are a diversion of energy for socialists and are limited because they must adhere to the logic of capitalism.
socialism: Class and national oppression had been totally eradicated.
socialism: Draper viewed socialism from below as being the purer, more Marxist version of socialism.
socialism: Every citizen had a guaranteed right to work, rest, education, health care, abode and security in old age and maintenance in the event of disability.
socialism: Labour exchanges were established in the USSR in 1967 to help enterprises re-allocate workers and provide information on job vacancies.
socialism: Social democracy supports the trade union labour movement and supports collective bargaining rights for workers.
socialism: Proponents of one approach typically criticise others.
socialism: Revolution is not necessarily defined by revolutionary socialists as violent insurrection, but as a complete dismantling and rapid transformation of all areas of class society led by the majority of the masses: the working class.
socialism: The counter-cultural phenomenon which emerged in the 1960s shaped the intellectual and radical outlook of the New Left; this movement placed a heavy emphasis on anti-racism, anti-imperialism and direct democracy in opposition to the dominant culture of advanced industrial capitalism.
socialism: Reformism is generally associated with social democracy and gradualist democratic socialism.
socialism: Negotiated coordination is based upon social ownership by those affected by the use of the assets involved, with decisions made by those at the most localised level of production.
socialism: Lenin theorised that under capitalism the workers cannot achieve class consciousness beyond organising into trade unions and making demands of the capitalists.
socialism: The policies/goals would be carried out by the technical specialists that form the coordinating hierarchy of the firm, who would establish plans or directives for the work community to accomplish these goals.
socialism: Democratic socialism is difficult to define and groups of scholars have radically different definitions for the term.
socialism: The highest income was to be found in Slovenia ($10,663) and Estonia ($9,078) and the lowest in Albania ($1,386) and Tajikistan ($2,730).
socialism: He used these terms completely interchangeably.
socialism: The definition and usage of socialism settled by the 1860s, with the term socialist replacing associationist, co-operative, mutualist and collectivist, which had been used as synonyms, while the term communism fell out of use during this period.
socialism: Public ownership may refer to the creation of state-owned enterprises, nationalisation, municipalisation or autonomous collective institutions.
socialism: However, in practice this meant that investment was shifted towards new branches of industry, including the electronics, computing, automotive and nuclear power sectors, leaving the traditional heavy industries dependent upon older technologies.
socialism: This ideology influenced the policies of the British Labour Party during Clement Attlee's administration.
socialism: A contemporary model for a self-managed, non-market socialism is Pat Devine's model of negotiated coordination.
socialism: In parallel, many former socialist politicians and political parties embraced "Third Way" politics, remaining committed to equality and welfare while abandoning public ownership and class-based politics.
socialism: It asserts that the only acceptable constitutional form of government is representative democracy under the rule of law.
socialism: Ely, Richard T.; Adams, Thomas Sewall (1905).
socialism: A number of scholars and Western socialists have regarded Leon Trotsky as a democratic alternative rather than a forerunner to Stalin with particular emphasis drawn to his activities in the pre-Civil War period and as leader of the Left Opposition.
socialism: It emphasizes the need for a morally conscious economy based upon the principles of altruism, cooperation, and social justice while opposing possessive individualism.
socialism: The results of a 2019 Axios poll found that 70% of US millennials were willing to vote for a socialist candidate and 50% of this same demographic had a somewhat or very unfavourable view of capitalism.
socialism: Other policies included land redistribution and the Anti-Rightist Movement, followed by the disastrous Great Leap Forward.
socialism: Leroux was a follower of Henri de Saint-Simon, one of the founders of what would later be labelled utopian socialism.
socialism: As a shared ideology among several African thinkers over the decades, it encompasses a variety of competing interpretations.
socialism: Green anarchism blends anarchism with environmental issues.
socialism: Prior to Stalin's rule, literary, religious and national representatives had some level of autonomy in Soviet Russia throughout the 1920s but these groups were later rigorously repressed during the Stalinist era.
socialism: A state-directed economy may refer to a type of mixed economy consisting of public ownership over large industries, as promoted by various Social democratic political parties during the 20th century.
socialism: For Pierson, "if advocates of the death of socialism accept that social democrats belong within the socialist camp, as I think they must, then the contrast between socialism (in all its variants) and liberal democracy must collapse.
socialism: For anarchists and other anti-authoritarian socialists, socialism "can only mean a classless and anti-authoritarian (i.e.
socialism: Studies by economists of various political persuasions on the actual functioning of the Soviet economy indicate that it was not actually a planned economy.
socialism: Life expectancy in the CEE/CIS area in the period 1985–1990 was 68 years, while for the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) it was 75 years.
socialism: In Literature and Revolution, Trotsky examined aesthetic issues in relation to class and the Russian revolution.
socialism: A self-managed, decentralised economy is based on autonomous self-regulating economic units and a decentralised mechanism of resource allocation and decision-making.
socialism: Christian socialism is a broad concept involving an intertwining of Christian religion with socialism.
socialism: Among revolutionary socialists there are differences in strategy, theory and the definition of revolution.
socialism: Marxism–Leninism combines Marx's scientific socialist concepts and Lenin's anti-imperialism, democratic centralism, vanguardism and the principle of "He who does not work, neither shall he eat".
socialism: Some of its most remarkable technological achievements, such as launching the world's first space satellite, were achieved through military research.
socialism: From the 1960s onwards, CMEA countries, beginning with East Germany, attempted "intensive" growth strategies, aiming to raise the productivity of labour and capital.
socialism: It originated in the United Kingdom and was at its most influential in the first quarter of the 20th century.
socialism: Lipow identifies Bellamyism and Stalinism as two prominent authoritarian socialist currents within the history of the socialist movement.
socialism: In this interpretation, the transference of techniques brought new cultural changes in terms of rationalism, efficiency, exactitude and quality.
socialism: This had been preceded by similar efforts to introduce a form of cybernetic economic planning as seen with the proposed OGAS system in the Soviet Union.
socialism: Utopian socialism is a term used to define the first currents of modern socialist thought as exemplified by the work of Henri de Saint-Simon, Charles Fourier and Robert Owen which inspired Karl Marx and other early socialists.
socialism: Subsequently, another 2021 Axios poll found that 51% of 18–34 US adults had a positive view of socialism.
socialism: Material standards of living were rising steadily and everyone had free access to knowledge and to the values of world and national culture.
socialism: Ethical socialism has been the official philosophy of mainstream socialist parties.
socialism: A planned economy can be either decentralised or centralised.
socialism: The socialist political movement includes political philosophies that originated in the revolutionary movements of the mid-to-late 18th century and out of concern for the social problems that socialists associated with capitalism.
socialism: The major characteristics of socialism (particularly as conceived by Marx and Engels after the Paris Commune of 1871) are that the proletariat would control the means of production through a workers' state erected by the workers in their interests.
socialism: The goals of self-management are to eliminate exploitation and reduce alienation.
socialism: For the OECD area as a whole estimated GDP per person was $14,385.
socialism: Imier International.
socialism: The Encyclopedia of Homosexuality reports that "[a]s Marxists the founders of the group believed that the injustice and oppression which they suffered stemmed from relationships deeply embedded in the structure of American society".
socialism: Guild socialism is a political movement advocating workers' control of industry through the medium of trade-related guilds "in an implied contractual relationship with the public".
socialism: In Oscar Wilde's The Soul of Man Under Socialism, he advocates an egalitarian society where wealth is shared by all, while warning of the dangers of social systems that crush individuality.
socialism: For a duration of one week in December 1899, the Australian Labor Party formed the first socialist government in the world when it was elected into power in the Colony of Queensland with Premier Anderson Dawson as its leader.
socialism: Many mainstream democratic socialist and social democratic parties continued to drift right-wards.
socialism: Emerging from events such as the May 1968 insurrection in France, the anti-Vietnam war movement in the US and the Stonewall riots of 1969, militant gay liberation organisations began to spring up around the world.
socialism: Encyclopædia Britannica (12th ed.).
socialism: He used it to defend the Bolshevik program from Marxist criticism that Russia's productive forces were not sufficiently developed for communism.
socialism: The Owenites in England and the Fourierists in France were considered respectable socialists while working-class movements that "proclaimed the necessity of total social change" denoted themselves communists.
socialism: Another, more recent variant is participatory economics, wherein the economy is planned by decentralised councils of workers and consumers.
socialism: Anarcho-communism is a theory of anarchism which advocates the abolition of the state, private property and capitalism in favour of common ownership of the means of production.
socialism: During the 1880s and 1890s, Morris promoted his ideas within the Social Democratic Federation and Socialist League.
socialism: Every member would have decision-making power in the firm and would be able to participate in establishing its overall policy objectives.
socialism: Socialism is an economic and political philosophy encompassing diverse economic and social systems characterised by social ownership of the means of production, as opposed to private ownership.
socialism: Many of these parties lost large parts of their electoral base in the early 21st century.
socialism: They viewed their society as harming community life by basing society on competition.
socialism: It emphasises workers' self-management and decentralised structures of political organisation.
socialism: Implemented in the USSR and China, it resulted in reduced crop yields and is widely believed to have contributed to the Great Chinese Famine.
socialism: Some political groups have called themselves socialist while holding views that some consider antithetical to socialism.
socialism: Liberal socialism has been particularly prominent in British and Italian politics.
socialism: Syndicalism operates through industrial trade unions.
socialism: 25 (11th ed.).
socialism: This compared to the US with $20,651 and $16,006 for Germany in the same year.
socialism: Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
socialism: The term Arab socialism was coined by Michel Aflaq, the principal founder of Ba'athism and the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party in Syria, to distinguish his version of socialist ideology from the international socialist movement.
socialism: Neoclassical economist Léon Walras believed that a socialist economy based on state ownership of land and natural resources would provide a means of public finance to make income taxes unnecessary.
socialism: Across the whole CEE/CIS area, GDP per person was estimated at $6,162.
socialism: In the 19th century, the philosophy of state socialism was first explicitly expounded by the German political philosopher Ferdinand Lassalle.
socialism: On the right of the socialist movement, the Progressive Alliance was founded in 2013 by current or former members of the Socialist International.
socialism: Unemployment, hunger, poverty, illiteracy and uncertainty about the future had been eliminated.
socialism: Visions of imaginary ideal societies, which competed with revolutionary social democratic movements, were viewed as not being grounded in the material conditions of society and as reactionary.
socialism: Types of socialism vary based on the role of markets and planning in resource allocation, and the structure of management in organizations.
socialism: In a centrally planned economy, decisions regarding the quantity of goods and services to be produced are planned in advance by a planning agency (see also the analysis of Soviet-type economic planning).
socialism: Early socialist thought took influences from a diverse range of philosophies such as civic republicanism, Enlightenment rationalism, romanticism, forms of materialism, Christianity (both Catholic and Protestant), natural law and natural rights theory, utilitarianism and liberal political economy.
