social_psychology: During the 1960s, there was growing interest in topics such as cognitive dissonance, bystander intervention, and aggression.
social_psychology: At the time, many psychologists were concerned with developing concrete explanations for the different aspects of human nature.
social_psychology: Participants with three other, incorrect participants made mistakes 31.8% of the time, while those with one or two incorrect participants made mistakes only 3.6% and 13.6% of the time, respectively.
social_psychology: As hypothesized, the children who had witnessed the aggressive actor imitated the behavior and proceeded to act aggressively towards the doll.
social_psychology: This leads to biases in perception and memory.
social_psychology: Replication failures are not unique to social psychology and are found in many fields of science.
social_psychology: For one, questionable research practices have been identified as common.
social_psychology: Social psychologists have discovered several general principles of attraction.
social_psychology: In a 1986 study by David O.
social_psychology: The study of it overlaps considerably with research on attitudes and persuasion.
social_psychology: A 2014 special edition of Social Psychology focused on replication studies, finding that many previously held social psychological beliefs were difficult to replicate.
social_psychology: Dual-process theories of persuasion (such as the elaboration likelihood model) maintain that persuasion is mediated by two separate routes: central and peripheral.
social_psychology: The self-serving bias is the tendency to attribute dispositional causes for successes, and situational causes for failure, particularly when self-esteem is threatened.
social_psychology: The availability heuristic occurs when people estimate the probability of an outcome based on how easy that outcome is to imagine.
social_psychology: Schemas are generalized mental representations that organize knowledge and guide information processing.
social_psychology: It is common in crowds and mobs, but a disguise, a uniform, alcohol, dark environments, or online anonymity can also cause it.
social_psychology: Researchers have found that relying predominantly on WEIRD samples limits our ability to understand global human behavior accurately.
social_psychology: Because it is usually impossible to test everyone, research is typically conducted on a sample of individuals from the wider population.
social_psychology: Many researchers attribute the failure to replicate as a result of the difficulty of being able to recreate the same conditions of a study conducted many years before, as the environment and people have changed.
social_psychology: Attitudes are basic expressions of approval and disapproval or likes and dislikes.
social_psychology: Social psychologists study group-related phenomena such as the behavior of crowds.
social_psychology: The practice of deception has been challenged by psychologists who maintain that deception under any circumstances is unethical and that other research strategies (e.g., role-playing) should be used instead.
social_psychology: Context: includes environment, group dynamics, and preliminary information.
social_psychology: They organize social information and experiences.
social_psychology: The two disciplines, however, have become increasingly specialized and isolated from each other in recent years, with sociologists generally focusing on high-level, large-scale examinations of society and psychologists generally focusing on small-scale studies of individual human behavior.
social_psychology: The three main areas of social influence include conformity, compliance, and obedience.
social_psychology: In just a few days, the guards became brutal and cruel, and the prisoners became miserable and compliant.
social_psychology: The 2002 BBC prison study, designed to replicate the conditions in the Stanford study, produced conclusions that were drastically different from the initial findings.
social_psychology: This type of research is usually descriptive or correlational because there is no experimental control over variables.
social_psychology: The shared social identity of individuals within a group influences intergroup behavior, which refers to how groups behave toward and perceive one another.
social_psychology: This led them to experience dissonance, or discomfort and internal conflict.
social_psychology: However, boys were more likely to exhibit aggression, especially after observing the behavior from an actor of the same gender.
social_psychology: Persuasion is an active method of influence that seeks to guide people toward adopting an attitude, idea, or behavior through rational or emotional means.
social_psychology: Replication testing is also important in ensuring that the results are valid and not due to chance.
social_psychology: Schemas may induce expectations that lead us to see something that is not there.
social_psychology: Facts and results influence the central route of persuasion in longer-lasting change, but require motivation to process.
social_psychology: This is a prediction that, by being made, causes itself to become true.
social_psychology: The third major form of social influence is obedience, a change in behavior resulting from a direct order or command from another person.
social_psychology: One experiment found that people are more likely to misperceive a weapon in the hands of a black man than a white man.
social_psychology: Some social psychologists have also published fraudulent research that has entered into mainstream academia, most notably the admitted data fabrication by Diederik Stapel as well as allegations against others.
social_psychology: These psychological experiments later went on to form the foundation of much of 20th century social psychological findings.
social_psychology: Following the war, researchers became interested in a variety of social problems, including issues of gender and racial prejudice.
social_psychology: Experiments are useful in social psychology because they are high in internal validity, meaning that they are free from the influence of confounding or extraneous variables, and so are more likely to indicate a causal relationship accurately.
social_psychology: Similarly, people may expect hostility in others and induce this hostility through their own behavior.
social_psychology: Still, the very act of observing people can influence and alter their behavior.
social_psychology: This type of schema is a stereotype, a generalized set of beliefs about a particular group of people (when incorrect, an ultimate attribution error).
social_psychology: A major research topic in social cognition is attribution.
social_psychology: The Asch conformity experiments used a line-length estimation task to demonstrate the power of people's impulses to conform to other group members.
social_psychology: Confirmation bias is a type of bias that leads to a tendency to search for or interpret information in a way that confirms one's preconceptions.
social_psychology: The first major area of social influence is conformity.
social_psychology: For this reason, many social psychology experiments utilize deception to conceal or distort certain aspects of the study.
social_psychology: Both male and female children who witnessed the non-aggressive actor behaved less aggressively towards the doll.
social_psychology: The Milgram experiment was designed to study how far people would go in obeying an authority figure.
social_psychology: Both groups were later asked to give their opinion of the task dishonestly, but were rewarded according to two different pay scales.
social_psychology: Some psychologists have raised concerns for social psychological research relying too heavily on studies conducted on university undergraduates in academic settings, or participants from crowdsourcing labor markets such as Amazon Mechanical Turk.
social_psychology: During World War II, social psychologists were mostly concerned with studies of persuasion and propaganda for the U.S.
social_psychology: Communication: includes credibility, expertise, trustworthiness, and attractiveness.
social_psychology: It also depends more heavily on experimental and laboratory research.
social_psychology: Physical attractiveness is an important element of romantic relationships, particularly in the early stages, which are characterized by high levels of passion.
social_psychology: Whenever possible, social psychologists rely on controlled experimentation, which requires the manipulation of one or more independent variables to examine the effect on a dependent variable.
social_psychology: As such, vivid or highly memorable possibilities will be perceived as more likely than those that are harder to picture or difficult to understand.
social_psychology: Additional manipulations of the experiment showed that participant conformity decreased when at least one other individual failed to conform, but increased when the individual began to conform or withdrew from the experiment.
social_psychology: The more similar two people are in their general attitudes, backgrounds, environments, worldviews, and other traits, the more likely they are to be attracted to each other.
social_psychology: Many social psychological research findings have proven difficult to replicate, leading some to argue that social psychology is undergoing a replication crisis.
social_psychology: Some factors have been identified in social psychological research as contributing to the crisis.
social_psychology: Groups also affect performance and productivity.
social_psychology: A major area of study in people's relationships is interpersonal attraction, which encompasses all factors that lead people to like each other, form relationships, and, in some cases, fall in love.
social_psychology: Schemas often operate automatically and unconsciously.
social_psychology: Social cognition studies how people perceive, recognize, and remember information about others.
social_psychology: Research also focused on how pandemic-related stress affected mental health and social cohesion.
social_psychology: Even before the current replication crisis, several effects in social psychology have also proven difficult to replicate.
social_psychology: Being paid $20 provided a reason for doing the boring task, which resulted in no dissonance.
social_psychology: It is seen as a fundamental concept in social psychology.
social_psychology: Stereotypes are often associated with negative or preferential attitudes and behaviors.
social_psychology: The task was designed to be easy to assess but wrong answers were deliberately given by at least some, oftentimes most, of the other participants.
social_psychology: At the end of the study, some participants were paid $1 to say they enjoyed the task, while the other group was paid $20 to tell the same lie.
social_psychology: military (see also psychological warfare).
social_psychology: Later on, similarity and other compatibility factors become more important, and the type of love people experience shifts from passionate to companionate.
social_psychology: They have several emergent qualities that distinguish them from coincidental, temporary gatherings, which are termed social aggregates:
social_psychology: Because multiple factors influence people in any given situation, general attitudes are not always good predictors of specific behavior.
social_psychology: Conformity is defined as the tendency to act or think like other members of a group.
social_psychology: The tendency to define oneself by group membership may lead to intergroup discrimination, which involves favorable perceptions and behaviors towards the in-group and negative perceptions and behaviors towards the out-group.
social_psychology: One of the most important factors in interpersonal attraction is how similar two particular people are.
social_psychology: In well over a third of the trials, participants conformed to the majority, even though the majority judgment was clearly wrong.
social_psychology: The foot-in-the-door technique is a compliance method in which the persuader requests a small favor and then follows up with a larger one (e.g., asking for the time and then asking for $10).
social_psychology: Research has shown that role-playing studies do not yield the same results as deception studies, casting doubt on the validity of role-playing studies.
social_psychology: In social psychology, an attitude is a learned, global evaluation that influences thought and action.
social_psychology: Philip Zimbardo's Stanford prison study, a simulated exercise in which students played correctional officers and inmates, sought to show how far people would go in role-playing.
social_psychology: Individuals also attribute causes of behavior to controllable and uncontrollable factors (i.e., the degree of control one has over the situation).
social_psychology: Persuasion relies on appeals rather than strong pressure or coercion.
social_psychology: An internal, or dispositional, attribution reasons that a behavior is caused by inner traits such as personality, disposition, character, and ability.
social_psychology: This assertion is supported by the social-cognitive deficits exhibited by people with Williams syndrome and autism.
social_psychology: Social facilitation, for example, is a tendency to work harder and faster in the presence of others.
social_psychology: Recognizing cultural diversity is essential not only for gaining multiple perspectives in problem-solving but also for ensuring that everyone feels included and represented in the study of psychology.
social_psychology: The peripheral route is influenced by superficial factors (e.g., smiling, clothing) and results in shorter-lasting change, but does not require as much motivation to process.
social_psychology: Noticing incongruence among one's attitudes leads to an uncomfortable state of tension, which may motivate a change in attitudes or behavior.
social_psychology: Much research rests on the assertion that people think about other people differently than they do non-social, or non-human, targets.
social_psychology: This theory is similar to the minimax principle proposed by mathematicians and economists.
social_psychology: Social psychology on PLOS — subject area page
social_psychology: Deception may include false cover stories, false participants (known as confederates or stooges), false feedback given to the participants, and other techniques that help remove potential obstacles to participation.
social_psychology: Conformity is usually viewed as a negative tendency in American culture, but a certain amount of conformity is adaptive in some situations, as is nonconformity in other situations.
social_psychology: Audience: includes a variety of demographics, personality traits, and preferences.
social_psychology: Daryl Bem's 1972 self-perception theory claims that when internal cues are difficult to interpret, people gain self-insight by observing their own behavior.
social_psychology: Relations: Patterns of liking within the group, and also differences in prestige or status.
social_psychology: Virtually all social psychology research today must pass an ethical review.
social_psychology: During the years immediately following World War II, there were frequent collaborations between psychologists and sociologists.
social_psychology: These selves are part of one's identity, and the self-referential information is that which relies on the appropriate self to process and react to it.
social_psychology: For example, in the financial sector, if it is widely believed that a crash is imminent, investors may lose confidence, sell most of their stocks, and thus trigger a crash.
social_psychology: Thus, the WEIRD problem represents both a challenge and an opportunity: a need to broaden the scope of research to reflect better the true diversity of humanity.
social_psychology: Two types of social influences often drive conformity: informational social influence, which involves conforming to gain accurate information, and normative social influence, which involves conforming to be accepted or liked by the group.
social_psychology: Numerous biases in the attribution process have been discovered.
social_psychology: They attempted to discover concrete cause-and-effect relationships that explained social interactions.
social_psychology: Social psychologists frequently use survey research when they are interested in results with high external validity.
social_psychology: These developments were part of a trend of increasingly sophisticated laboratory experiments using college students as participants and analysis of variance designs.
social_psychology: Some studies have suggested that at least mild versions of these practices are prevalent.
social_psychology: Groups often moderate and improve decision making, and are frequently relied upon for these benefits, such as in committees and juries.
social_psychology: To do so, they applied the scientific method to human behavior.
social_psychology: A debriefing is typically conducted at the conclusion of the experiment to reveal any deceptions used and to ensure that the procedures do not harm participants.
social_psychology: The second major area of social influence research is compliance, which refers to any change in behavior that is due to a request or suggestion from another person.
social_psychology: There is usually a trade-off between experimental control (internal validity) and generalizability to the population (external validity).
social_psychology: One of the most influential 20th-century attitude theories was Cognitive dissonance theory.
social_psychology: The heavy reliance on WEIRD samples may result in unrepresentative data, making it difficult to draw accurate conclusions about human behavior that apply to people from all cultural backgrounds.
social_psychology: Social influence is also closely related to the study of group dynamics, as most effects of influence are strongest within social groups.
social_psychology: They did this by changing their previously unfavorable attitudes about the task.
social_psychology: During the COVID-19 pandemic, social psychologists examined the effects of social isolation, fear, and misinformation on collective behavior.
social_psychology: According to this theory, attitudes must be logically consistent with each other.
social_psychology: One of the consequences of the current crisis is that some areas of social psychology once considered solid, such as social priming, have come under increased scrutiny due to failure to replicate findings.
social_psychology: Festinger explained that, for people in the first group, being paid only $1 was an insufficient incentive.
social_psychology: The first group ($1) later reported that they liked the task more than the second group ($20).
social_psychology: For example, it has been pointed out that participant self-selection may have affected the participants' behavior, and that the participants' personalities influenced their reactions in a variety of ways, including how long they chose to remain in the study.
social_psychology: For example, a person may generally value the environment but may not recycle a plastic bottle on a given day due to specific factors.
social_psychology: Obedience as a form of compliance was dramatically highlighted by the Milgram study, in which people were willing to administer electric shocks to a person in distress at a researcher's command.
social_psychology: The self-concept is composed of cognitive aspects called self-schemas—beliefs people hold about themselves that guide the processing of self-referential information.
social_psychology: This was initially argued to be an important demonstration of the power of the immediate social situation and its capacity to overwhelm normal personality traits.
social_psychology: The hindsight bias is a false memory of having predicted events, or an exaggeration of actual predictions, after becoming aware of the outcome.
social_psychology: Likewise, a 2012 special edition of Perspectives on Psychological Science focused on issues ranging from publication bias to null-aversion, which have contributed to the replication crisis.
social_psychology: In addition, boys were found to imitate more physical aggression, while girls displayed more verbal aggression.
social_psychology: An external, or situational, attribution reasons that a behavior is caused by situational elements such as the weather.A second element of attribution ascribes the cause of behavior to stable and unstable factors (i.e., whether the behavior will be repeated or changed under similar circumstances).
social_psychology: This leads to assuming one's successes are due to innate traits and one's failures to circumstances.
social_psychology: Social influence is an overarching term that refers to the persuasive effects people have on one another.
social_psychology: False positive conclusions, often resulting from the pressure to publish or the author's own confirmation bias, are a hazard in the field.
social_psychology: Albert Bandura's Bobo doll experiment attempted to demonstrate how aggression is learned by imitation.
social_psychology: By the 1980s and 1990s, social psychology had developed some solutions to these issues concerning theory and methodology.
social_psychology: One element of attribution ascribes the cause of behavior to internal and external factors.
social_psychology: These perceptions and behaviors, in turn, define the social identity of individuals within the interacting groups.
social_psychology: Today, most research in social psychology involves minimal risk, or no greater risk of harm than can be expected from normal daily activities or routine psychological testing.
social_psychology: According to social exchange theory, relationships are based on rational choice and cost-benefit analysis.
social_psychology: A related trick is the bait and switch, a disingenuous sales strategy that entices potential customers with advertisements for low-priced items that turn out to be unavailable, to sell a more expensive item.
social_psychology: The experiment showed that normal American citizens would follow orders even when they believed they were causing an innocent person to suffer or even apparently die.
social_psychology: Social psychologists typically explain human behavior as a result of the relationship between mental states and social situations, studying the social conditions under which thoughts, feelings, and behaviors occur, and how these variables influence social interactions.
social_psychology: Leon Festinger's 1954 social comparison theory posits that people evaluate their abilities and opinions by comparing themselves to others when they are uncertain about their own abilities and opinions.
social_psychology: This issue has significant implications for how findings are generalized to all human populations.
social_psychology: Groups tend to interact, influence each other, and share a common identity.
social_psychology: A person may leave a relationship if their partner's "costs" begin to outweigh the benefits, especially if good alternatives are available.
social_psychology: In Leon Festinger's cognitive dissonance experiment, participants were divided into two groups and were asked to perform a boring task.
social_psychology: Most modern researchers in the 21st century are interested in phenomena such as attribution, social cognition, and self-concept.
social_psychology: The representativeness heuristic is a shortcut people use to categorize something based on how similar it is to a prototype they know of.
social_psychology: Seventy-five percent of the participants conformed at least once during the experiment.
social_psychology: An unusual kind of social influence is the self-fulfilling prophecy.
social_psychology: In the 1970s, many conceptual challenges to social psychology emerged, including ethical concerns about laboratory experimentation, questions about whether attitudes could accurately predict behavior, and the extent to which science could be conducted within a cultural context.
social_psychology: Several other biases have been found by social cognition researchers.
social_psychology: When two (or more) people experience all three, they are said to be in a state of consummate love.
social_psychology: Social psychology is the methodical study of how thoughts, feelings, and behaviors are influenced by the actual, imagined, or implied presence of others.
social_psychology: Schemas for behaviors (e.g., going to a restaurant, doing laundry) are known as scripts.
social_psychology: There are many theories on the perception of our own behavior.
social_psychology: A group can be defined as two or more individuals who are connected by social relationships.
social_psychology: Sears, over 70% of experiments used North American undergraduates as subjects, a subset of the population that is unrepresentative of the population as a whole.
social_psychology: Understanding different cultures enriches our knowledge of human nature and challenges existing biases, ultimately leading to a more comprehensive and inclusive body of psychological research.
social_psychology: The process of persuasion is influenced by numerous variables that generally fall into one of five major categories:
social_psychology: Message: includes varying degrees of reason, emotion (e.g., fear), one-sided or two-sided arguments, and other types of informational content.
social_psychology: In addition to deception, experimenters have at times put people in potentially uncomfortable or embarrassing situations (e.g., the Milgram experiment and Stanford prison experiment), and this has also been criticized for ethical reasons.
social_psychology: Heuristics are cognitive shortcuts that are used to make decisions in place of conscious reasoning.
social_psychology: It was also in this period where situationism, the theory that human behavior changes based on situational factors, emerged and challenged the relevance of self and personality in psychology.
social_psychology: Attitudes are also involved in several other areas of the discipline, such as conformity, interpersonal attraction, social perception, and prejudice.
social_psychology: Norms: Implicit rules and expectations for group members to follow.
social_psychology: Such practices, while not necessarily intentionally fraudulent, often involve converting undesired statistical outcomes into desired outcomes via the manipulation of statistical analyses, sample sizes, or data management systems, typically to convert non-significant findings into significant ones.
social_psychology: Fraudulent research is not the main contributor to the replication crisis.
social_psychology: Statistics and probability testing define what constitutes a significant finding, which can be as low as 5% or less and is unlikely to occur by chance.
social_psychology: For example, enjoying chocolate ice cream or endorsing the values of a particular political party are examples of attitudes.
social_psychology: Another important concept in this area is deindividuation, a reduced state of self-awareness that can result from feelings of anonymity.
social_psychology: Psychologists have spent decades studying the power of social influence and how it manipulates people's opinions and behavior.
social_psychology: Social psychologists are, in addition, concerned with applied psychology, contributing towards applications of social psychology in health, education, law, and the workplace.
social_psychology: They could only overcome that dissonance by justifying their lies.
social_psychology: Regardless of the method chosen, social psychologists statistically assess the significance of their results before accepting them when evaluating an underlying hypothesis.
social_psychology: Research on attitudes has examined the distinction between traditional, self-reported attitudes and implicit, unconscious attitudes.
social_psychology: With time, long-term relationships tend to become communal rather than based on exchange.
social_psychology: One of the first published studies in the field was Norman Triplett's 1898 experiment on the phenomenon of social facilitation.
social_psychology: Attributions are explanations of behavior, either one's own behavior or the behavior of others.
social_psychology: Self-concept is the whole sum of beliefs that people have about themselves.
social_psychology: Medium: includes printed word, radio, television, the internet, or face-to-face interactions.
social_psychology: Also, participant conformity increased substantially as the number of "incorrect" individuals increased from one to three, and remained high as the incorrect majority grew.
social_psychology: Social stigma, which refers to the disapproval or discrimination against individuals based on perceived differences, became increasingly prevalent as societies sought to redefine norms and group boundaries after the war.
social_psychology: The identity of members within a group (i.e., status), similarity, expertise, as well as cohesion, prior commitment, and accountability to the group, help determine an individual's level of conformity.
social_psychology: Subsequent research has contested the initial conclusions of the study.
social_psychology: Specifically, social influence refers to the way in which individuals change their ideas and actions to meet the demands of a social group, a received authority, a social role, or a minority within a group that wields influence over the majority.
social_psychology: An early, influential research program in social psychology was established by Kurt Lewin and his students.
social_psychology: Furthermore, a process of informed consent is often used to make sure that volunteers know what will be asked of them in the experiment and understand that they are allowed to quit the experiment at any time.
social_psychology: For example, the scientific journal Judgment and Decision Making has published several studies over the years that fail to provide support for the unconscious thought theory.
social_psychology: However, the small samples used in controlled experiments are typically low in external validity, or the degree to which the results can be generalized to the larger population.
social_psychology: Careful attention to research design, sampling, and statistical analysis is important in social psychology.
social_psychology: Likewise, one study found that in interracial interactions, explicit attitudes correlate with verbal behavior, while implicit attitudes correlate with nonverbal behavior.
social_psychology: This is problematic because WEIRD populations are not representative of the broader diversity of human experiences, which affects our understanding of basic psychological processes such as perception, cognition, and well-being.
social_psychology: In 1986, Robert Sternberg suggested that there are actually three components of love: intimacy, passion, and commitment.
social_psychology: Roles: Implicit rules and expectations for specific members within the group.
social_psychology: Deindividuation is associated with uninhibited and sometimes dangerous behavior.
social_psychology: Individual variations among group members play a key role in the dynamic of how willing people will be to conform.
social_psychology: Surveys use various forms of random sampling to obtain a sample of respondents that is representative of a population.
social_psychology: Experiments using the Implicit Association Test (IAT), for instance, have found that people often demonstrate implicit bias against other races, even when their explicit responses profess impartiality.
social_psychology: Cross-cultural variations are often ignored, leading to the misconception that findings from WEIRD populations can be universally applied.
