soil: More precisely, it is a measure of hydronium concentration in an aqueous solution and ranges in values from 0 to 14 (acidic to basic) but practically speaking for soils, pH ranges from 3.5 to 9.5, as pH values beyond those extremes are toxic to life forms.
soil: Those materials reflect the duration of specific processes of soil formation.
soil: Biogenic soil volatile organic compounds are exchanged with the aboveground atmosphere, in which they are just 1–2 orders of magnitude lower than those from aboveground vegetation.
soil: Alternatively, landfills use soil for daily cover, isolating waste deposits from the atmosphere and preventing unpleasant smells.
soil: They are labelled using a shorthand notation of letters and numbers which describe the horizon in terms of its colour, size, texture, structure, consistency, root quantity, pH, voids, boundary characteristics and presence of nodules or concretions.
soil: Loss of soil through urbanization is growing at a high rate in many areas and can be critical for the maintenance of subsistence agriculture.
soil: However, biodiversity in soil is much harder to study as most of this life is invisible, hence estimates about soil biodiversity have been unsatisfactory.
soil: The main part of soil organic matter is a complex assemblage of small organic molecules, collectively called humus or humic substances.
soil: From the fall of Rome to the French Revolution, knowledge of soil and agriculture was passed on from parent to child and as a result, crop yields were low.
soil: At the start of the 18th century, Jethro Tull demonstrated that it was beneficial to cultivate (stir) the soil, but his opinion that the stirring made the fine parts of soil available for plant absorption was erroneous.
soil: The chemistry of a soil determines its ability to supply available plant nutrients and affects its physical properties and the health of its living population.
soil: The very high specific surface area of colloids and their net electrical charges give soil its ability to hold and release ions.
soil: Pedology focuses on the formation, description (morphology), and classification of soils in their natural environment.
soil: Small amounts of humus may remarkably increase the soil's capacity to promote plant growth.
soil: Liebig nevertheless believed the nitrogen was supplied from the air.
soil: Soil absorbs rainwater and releases it later, thus preventing floods and drought, flood regulation being one of the major ecosystem services provided by soil.
soil: The interaction of the individual mineral particles with organic matter, water, gases via biotic and abiotic processes causes those particles to flocculate (stick together) to form aggregates or peds.
soil: Aerated soil is also a net sink of methane (CH4) but a net producer of methane (a strong heat-trapping greenhouse gas) when soils are depleted of oxygen and subject to elevated temperatures.
soil: The decomposition of soil organic matter by microorganisms is another mechanism whereby the soluble pool of nutrients is replenished – this is important for the supply of plant-available N, S, P, and B from soil.
soil: Soil, also commonly referred to as earth, is a mixture of organic matter, minerals, gases, water, and organisms that together support the life of plants and soil organisms.
soil: Since soil water is never pure water, but contains hundreds of dissolved organic and mineral substances, it may be more accurately called the soil solution.
soil: Hence, pure sand has almost no buffering ability, though soils high in colloids (whether mineral or organic) have high buffering capacity.
soil: Deforestation is another cause of soil acidification, mediated by increased leaching of soil nutrients in the absence of tree canopies.
soil: He realised that the soils were dynamic and considered the classification of soil types.
soil: cyanobacteria with heterocysts, Clostridium).
soil: Wilting point describes the dry limit for growing plants.
soil: mineral weathering), and the soil-forming factors that influence those processes.
soil: The addition of enough lime to neutralize the soil water solution will be insufficient to change the pH, as the acid forming cations stored on the soil colloids will tend to restore the original pH condition as they are pushed off those colloids by the calcium of the added lime.
soil: However, the uncontrolled application of charred waste products of all kinds may endanger soil life and human health.
soil: The effect of pH on a soil is to remove from the soil or to make available certain ions.
soil: The solum normally includes the A and B horizons.
soil: Plants are able to excrete H+ into the soil through the synthesis of organic acids and by that means, change the pH of the soil near the root and push cations off the colloids, thus making those available to the plant.
soil: Rapid salination occurs when the land surface is within the capillary fringe of saline groundwater.
soil: At 25 °C an aqueous solution that has a pH of 3.5 has 10−3.5 moles H3O+ (hydronium ions) per litre of solution (and also 10−10.5 moles per litre OH−).
soil: The living component of the soil is largely confined to the solum, and is generally more prominent in the A horizon.
soil: Many building materials are soil based.
soil: It was modified a number of times by American and European researchers and was developed into the system commonly used until the 1960s.
soil: These constituents are moved from one level to another by water (leaching) and animal activity (bioturbation).
soil: However, in the same time soil microbes contribute to carbon sequestration in the topsoil through the formation of stable humus.
soil: Some, called entisols, may have only one horizon or are currently considered as having no horizon, in particular incipient soils from unreclaimed mining waste deposits, moraines, volcanic cones sand dunes or alluvial terraces.
soil: Rain water and pooled water from ponds, lakes and rivers percolate through the soil horizons and the upper rock strata, thus becoming groundwater.
soil: This led to the invention and use of salts of potassium (K) and nitrogen (N) as fertilizers.
soil: A typical soil has a biomass composition of 70% microorganisms, 22% macrofauna, and 8% roots.
soil: An example of diffuse pollution with contaminants is copper accumulation in vineyards and orchards to which fungicides are repeatedly applied, even in organic farming.
soil: This is called law of mass action.
soil: However, more recent definitions of soil embrace soils without any organic matter, such as those regoliths that formed on Mars and analogous conditions in planet Earth deserts.
soil: The biological influences on soil properties (e.g.
soil: Soil texture and structure strongly affect soil porosity and gas diffusion.
soil: His work was discontinued.
soil: Ammonia generated by the production of coke was recovered and used as fertiliser.
soil: Also, the much greater acidity under any forests inhibits the action of certain soil organisms that otherwise would mix much of the surface litter into the mineral soil.
soil: However, plants are able to stimulate mineral weathering, and thus the availability of mineral-bound nutrients, through various processes, both direct (e.g.
soil: Derelict soils occur where industrial contamination or other development activity damages the soil to such a degree that the land cannot be used safely or productively, although some ecosystem services (e.g.
soil: This ventilation can be accomplished via networks of interconnected soil pores, which also absorb and hold rainwater making it readily available for uptake by plants.
soil: The percent soil mineral and organic content can be treated as a constant (in the short term), while the percent soil water and gas content is considered highly variable whereby a rise in one is simultaneously balanced by a reduction in the other.
soil: Soil water content can be measured as volume or weight.
soil: The cation exchange, that takes place between colloids and soil water, buffers (moderates) soil pH, alters soil structure, and purifies percolating water by adsorbing cations of all types, both useful and harmful.
soil: Above-ground and below-ground biodiversities are tightly interconnected, making soil protection of paramount importance for any restoration or conservation plan.
soil: Field capacity describes a drained wet soil at the point water content reaches equilibrium with gravity.
soil: Compaction, a common problem with soils, in particular under heavy machinery traffic, reduces this space, preventing air and water from reaching plant roots and soil organisms.
soil: This has been called the soil food web, through which all organic matter is processed as in a digestive system.
soil: Soil formation factors are often referred to by the acronym CLORPT.
soil: Soil bulk density, when determined at standardized moisture conditions, is an estimate of soil compaction.
soil: moles, pocket gophers, voles, blind snakes), an adaptation to subterranean life thought to be inherited from past global ecological crises.
soil: However, the dynamic interaction of soil and its life forms was still not understood.
soil: The pedosphere interfaces with the lithosphere, the hydrosphere, the atmosphere, and the biosphere.
soil: Live plant roots also have some CEC, linked to their specific surface area.
soil: One of the first soil classification systems was developed by the Russian scientist Vasily Dokuchaev around 1880.
soil: Since plant roots need oxygen, aeration is an important characteristic of soil.
soil: Hydrogens of humus hydroxyl groups may also be ionised into solution, leaving, similarly to clay, an oxygen with a negative charge.
soil: Soil is said to be formed when organic matter has accumulated and colloids are washed downward, leaving deposits of clay, humus, iron oxide, carbonate, and gypsum, producing a distinct layer called the B horizon.
soil: A typical soil is about 50% solids (45% mineral and 5% organic matter), and 50% voids (or pores) of which half is occupied by water and half by gas.
soil: While most vertebrates live above ground (ignoring aquatic species), many species are fossorial, that is, they live in soil (e.g.
soil: Others concluded it was humus in the soil that passed some essence to the growing plant.
soil: This is a somewhat arbitrary definition as mixtures of sand, silt, clay and humus will support biological and agricultural activity before that time.
soil: Soil management tools include maintaining soil nutrient and organic matter levels, reduced tillage and increased plant cover.
soil: H2PO−4 replaces SO2−4 replaces NO−3 replaces Cl−
The amount of exchangeable anions is of a magnitude of tenths to a few milliequivalents per 100 g dry soil.
soil: In engineering terms, soil is included in the broader concept of regolith, which also includes other loose material that lies above the bedrock, as can be found on the Moon and other celestial objects.
soil: The developing plant roots are associated with mineral-weathering mycorrhizal fungi that assist in breaking up the porous lava, and by these means organic matter and a finer mineral soil accumulate with time.
soil: Base saturation is almost in direct proportion to pH (it increases with increasing pH).
soil: The types of soil and available moisture determine the species of plants that can be cultivated.
soil: Since plants require a nearly continuous supply of water, but most regions receive sporadic rainfall, the water-holding capacity of soils is vital for plant survival.
soil: Soil texture is determined by the relative proportion of the three kinds of soil mineral particles, called soil separates: sand, silt, and clay.
soil: This helped to increase their income.
soil: This led to guano mining and that of Chilean nitrate and to its application to soil in the United States and Europe after 1840.
soil: As a result of a trade-off between toxicity and requirement most nutrients are better available to plants at moderate pH, although most minerals are more soluble (weatherable) in acid soils.
soil: Soil piping is a particular form of soil erosion that occurs below the soil surface.
soil: Subirrigation designs (e.g., wicking beds, sub-irrigated planters) rely on capillarity to supply water to plant roots.
soil: Some nitrogen also originates from rain as dilute nitric acid and ammonia, but most of the nitrogen is available in soils as a result of nitrogen fixation by diazotroph bacteria (e.g.
soil: hydronium, aluminium, iron) and there are base-forming cations (e.g.
soil: Many other groups of animals have substantial fractions of species living in soil, e.g.
soil: as a medium for plant growth
as a means of water storage, water supply, and water purification
as a modifier of Earth's atmosphere
as a habitat for soil organisms
All of these functions, in their turn, modify the soil and its properties.
soil: In areas of extreme rainfall and high temperatures, clay and humus may be washed out, further reducing the buffering capacity of the soil.
soil: Soil is a major component of the Earth's ecosystem.
soil: With respect to Earth's carbon cycle, soil acts as an important carbon reservoir, and it is potentially one of the most reactive to human disturbance and climate change.
soil: Agricultural soil science was the primeval domain of soil knowledge, long time before the advent of pedology in the 19th century.
soil: Licensed under Cc BY-SA 3.0 IGO (license statement/permission).
soil: Soil acidification is accelerated by the use of acid-forming nitrogenous fertilizers and by the effects of acid precipitation.
soil: The alteration (weathering) and movement of materials within a soil causes the formation of distinctive soil horizons.
soil: Once in the soil-plant system, most nutrients are recycled through living organisms, plant and microbial residues (soil organic matter), mineral-bound forms (humus), and the soil solution.
soil: Using the clay had enabled some farmers to switch to growing vegetables, which need more fertile soil.
soil: The plants are supported by the porous rock as it is filled with nutrient-bearing water that carries minerals dissolved from the rocks.
soil: Organisms colonise and break down organic materials, making available nutrients upon which other plants and animals can live.
soil: Scientists experimented with adding bentonite, one of the smectite family of clays, to the soil.
soil: Capillary action is responsible for moving groundwater from wet regions of the soil to dry areas.
soil: calcium, magnesium, sodium).
soil: Soil organisms metabolise or immobilise pollutants in their biomass and necromass (dead biomass), thereby incorporating them into stable humus.
soil: As a result, layers (horizons) form in the soil profile.
soil: National Cooperative Soil Survey, applied it to a national soil classification system.
soil: Levels of AEC are much lower than for CEC, because of the generally higher rate of positively (versus negatively) charged surfaces on soil colloids, to the exception of variable-charge soils.
soil: His 1857 book, Anfangsgründe der Bodenkunde (First principles of soil science), established modern soil science.
soil: Little of the soil of planet Earth is older than the Pleistocene and none is older than the Cenozoic, although fossilized soils are preserved from as far back as the Archean.
soil: The growth of vegetation results in the production of organic residues which fall on the ground as litter for plant aerial parts (leaf litter) or are directly produced belowground for subterranean plant organs (root litter), and then release dissolved organic matter.
soil: Land application of waste water relies on soil biology to aerobically treat BOD.
soil: If the soil is too high in clay or salts (e.g.
soil: Finally, water affects the type of vegetation that grows in a soil, which in turn affects the development of the soil, a complex feedback which is exemplified in the dynamics of banded vegetation patterns in semi-arid regions.
soil: At the next larger scale, soil structures called peds or more commonly soil aggregates are created from the soil separates when iron oxides, carbonates, clay, silica and humus, coat particles and cause them to adhere into larger, relatively stable secondary structures.
soil: Large numbers of microbes, animals, plants and fungi are living in soil.
soil: Restoring the world's soils could offset the effect of increases in greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, while improving crop yields and reducing water needs.
soil: The biological component of soil is an extremely important carbon sink since about 57% of the biotic content is carbon.
soil: roots, bacteria, fungi, animals.
soil: A serious and long-running water erosion problem occurs in China, on the middle reaches of the Yellow River and the upper reaches of the Yangtze River.
soil: In 2008, three years after the initial trials, IWMI scientists conducted a survey among 250 farmers in northeast Thailand, half of whom had applied bentonite to their fields.
soil: Unlike permanent charges developed by isomorphous substitution, pH-dependent charges are variable and increase with increasing pH.
soil: Microfibres from synthetic textiles are another type of plastic soil contamination.
soil: A pH of 9.5 has 10−9.5 moles hydronium ions per litre of solution (and also 10−2.5 moles per litre OH−).
soil: It continually undergoes development through numerous physical, chemical, and biological processes, which include weathering with associated erosion.
soil: The mixture of water and dissolved or suspended materials that occupy the soil pore space is called the soil solution.
soil: Peat soils are also commonly used for the sake of agriculture in Nordic countries, because peatland sites, when drained, provide fertile soils for food production.
soil: Increased population and livestock pressure on marginal lands accelerates desertification.
soil: It was known that certain legumes could take up nitrogen from the air and fix it to the soil but it took the development of bacteriology towards the end of the 19th century to lead to an understanding of the role played in nitrogen fixation by bacteria.
soil: Hilgard (1833–1916) studied the relationship between rock material, climate, vegetation, and the type of soils that were developed.
soil: Geophagy is the practice of eating soil-like substances.
soil: Organic soils, especially peat, serve as a significant fuel and horticultural resource.
soil: Cation-exchange capacity is the amount of exchangeable cations per unit weight of dry soil and is expressed in terms of milliequivalents of positively charged ions per 100 grams of soil (or centimoles of positive charge per kilogram of soil; cmolc/kg).
soil: The sediment originates primarily from water erosion (gully erosion) in the Loess Plateau region of northwest China.
soil: This suggests a possible negative feedback control of soil CO2 concentration through its inhibitory effects on root and microbial respiration (also called soil respiration).
soil: weathering agents such as carbon dioxide, organic acids and ligands) and indirect (e.g.
soil: Soils provide readily available nutrients to plants and animals by converting dead organic matter into various nutrient forms.
soil: Soil moisture measurement is an important factor in determining changes in soil biological activity.
soil: No soil profile has all the major horizons.
soil: Movement of gases is by diffusion from high concentrations to lower, the diffusion coefficient decreasing with soil compaction.
soil: Soils which contain high levels of particular clays with high swelling properties, such as smectites, are often very fertile.
soil: At extreme levels, CO2 is toxic.
soil: Oxidation occurs if there is a loss of electrons in the transfer process while reduction occurs if there is a gain of electrons.
soil: saline sodic soil), adding gypsum, washed river sand and organic matter (e.g.municipal solid waste) will balance the composition.
soil: Soil resources are critical to the environment, as well as to food and fibre production, producing 98.8% of food consumed by humans.
soil: Cations held to the negatively charged colloids resist being washed downward by water and are at first out of reach of plant roots, thereby preserving the soil fertility in areas of moderate rainfall and low temperatures.
soil: In high rainfall areas, soils tend to acidify as the basic cations are forced off the soil colloids by the mass action of hydronium ions from usual or unusual rain acidity against those attached to the colloids.
soil: Upper soil horizons may be lacking in truncated soils following wind or water ablation, with concomitant downslope burying of soil horizons, a natural process aggravated by agricultural practices such as tillage.
soil: Sources of microfibres likely include string or twine, as well as irrigation water in which clothes have been washed.
soil: The symbiosis of bacteria and leguminous roots, and the fixation of nitrogen by the bacteria, were simultaneously discovered by the German agronomist Hermann Hellriegel and the Dutch microbiologist Martinus Beijerinck.
soil: Land degradation is a human-induced or natural process which impairs the capacity of land to function.
soil: This is largely what occurs with the addition of cationic fertilisers (potash, lime).
soil: His conclusion came from the fact that the increase in the plant's weight had apparently been produced only by the addition of water, with no reduction in the soil's weight.
soil: Soil biota can treat waste by transforming it, mainly through microbial enzymatic activity.
soil: For example, the smectite-rich paddy soils of Thailand's Central Plains are among the most productive in the world.
soil: The modern measure of CEC is expressed as centimoles of positive charge per kilogram (cmol/kg) of oven-dry soil.
soil: Soil atmosphere is also the seat of emissions of volatiles other than carbon and nitrogen oxides from various soil organisms, e.g.
soil: A horizontal layer of the soil, whose physical features, composition and age are distinct from those above and beneath, is referred to as a soil horizon.
soil: Finally, the chemical basis of nutrients delivered to the soil in manure was understood and in the mid-19th century chemical fertilisers were applied.
soil: Were it not for the mineralizing action of these microorganisms, the entire carbon dioxide part of the atmosphere would be sequestered as organic matter in the soil.
soil: These practices help to control erosion and maintain productivity during periods when moisture is available.
soil: Soil cleans water as it percolates through it.
soil: Justus von Liebig in his book Organic chemistry in its applications to agriculture and physiology (published 1840), asserted that the chemicals in plants must have come from the soil and air and that to maintain soil fertility, the used minerals must be replaced.
soil: In England John Bennet Lawes and Joseph Henry Gilbert worked in the Rothamsted Experimental Station, founded by the former, and (re)discovered that plants took nitrogen from the soil, and that salts needed to be in an available state to be absorbed by plants.
soil: In 1856, J.
soil: Soil chemical reactions involve some combination of proton and electron transfer.
soil: Due to language barriers, the work of this team was not communicated to Western Europe until 1914 through a publication in German by Konstantin Glinka, a member of the Russian team.
soil: Desertification, an environmental process of ecosystem degradation in arid and semi-arid regions, is often caused by badly adapted human activities such as overgrazing or excess harvesting of firewood.
soil: The amount of lime needed to neutralize a soil must take account of the amount of acid forming ions on the colloids (exchangeable acidity), not just those in the soil water solution (free acidity).
soil: 1728) experimented with various types of water ranging from clean to muddy and found muddy water the best, and so he concluded that earthy matter was the essential element.
soil: An example of the development of a soil would begin with the weathering of lava flow bedrock, which would produce the purely mineral-based parent material from which the soil texture forms.
soil: As chemistry developed, it was applied to the investigation of soil fertility.
soil: This ionisation of hydroxy groups on the surface of soil colloids creates what is described as pH-dependent surface charges.
soil: However, wide areas of peat production, such as rain-fed sphagnum bogs, also called mires, blanket bogs or raised bogs, are now threatened and protected because of their high patrimonial interest.
soil: Soil consistency is the ability of soil materials to stick together.
soil: Typically, soils maintain a net absorption of oxygen and methane and undergo a net release of carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide.
soil: Except for carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, which are supplied by carbon dioxide and water, and nitrogen, provided through nitrogen fixation, the nutrients derive originally from the mineral component of the soil.
soil: The consumption of oxygen by microbes and plant roots, and their release of carbon dioxide, decreases oxygen and increases carbon dioxide concentration.
soil: Those colloids which have low CEC tend to have some AEC.
soil: Phosphates tend to be held at anion exchange sites.
soil: Where these aggregates can be identified, a soil can be said to be developed, and can be described further in terms of color, porosity, consistency, reaction (acidity), etc.
soil: As an example, Flow Country, covering 4,000 square kilometres of rolling expanse of blanket bogs in Scotland, is now recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
soil: Edaphology studies the influence of soils on living things.
soil: Thomas Way discovered that ammonia contained in fertilisers was transformed into nitrate, and twenty years later Robert Warington proved that this transformation was done by living organisms.
soil: Text taken from Drowning in Plastics – Marine Litter and Plastic Waste Vital Graphics​, United Nations Environment Programme.
soil: Soil is a product of several factors: the influence of climate, relief (elevation, orientation, and slope of terrain), organisms, and the soil's parent materials (original minerals) interacting over time.
soil: The average improvement for those using the clay addition was 18% higher than for non-clay users.
soil: Many waste treatment processes rely on this natural bioremediation capacity.
soil: Exceeding treatment capacity can damage soil biota and limit soil function.
soil: The French chemist Antoine Lavoisier showed in about 1778 that plants and animals must combust oxygen internally to live.
soil: The exposure of parent material to favourable conditions produces mineral soils that are marginally suitable for plant growth, as is the case in eroded soils.
soil: In addition, the soil voids are saturated with water vapour, at least until the point of maximal hygroscopicity, beyond which a vapour-pressure deficit occurs in the soil pore space.
soil: Soil horizons can be dated by several methods such as radiocarbon, using pieces of charcoal provided they are of enough size to escape pedoturbation by earthworm activity and other mechanical disturbances.
soil: Earth sheltering is the architectural practice of using soil for external thermal mass against building walls.
soil: On parent materials richer in weatherable minerals acidification occurs when basic cations are leached from the soil profile by rainfall or exported by the harvesting of forest or agricultural crops.
soil: The law of the minimum expresses that when the available form of a nutrient is not in enough proportion in the soil solution, other nutrients cannot be taken up at an optimum rate by a plant.
soil: Once the colloids are saturated with H3O+, the addition of any more hydronium ions or aluminum hydroxyl cations drives the pH even lower (more acidic) as the soil has been left with no buffering capacity.
soil: Under such conditions, plants (in a first stage nitrogen-fixing lichens and cyanobacteria then epilithic higher plants) become established very quickly on basaltic lava, even though there is very little organic material.
soil: through soil horizons.
soil: Sodium can be reduced by the addition of gypsum (calcium sulphate) as calcium adheres to clay more tightly than does sodium causing sodium to be pushed into the soil water solution where it can be washed out by an abundance of water.
soil: As plants absorb the nutrients from the soil water, the soluble pool is replenished from the surface-bound pool.
soil: Water is central to the dissolution, precipitation and leaching of minerals from the soil profile.
soil: However, despite the remarkable capacity of humus to retain water once water-soaked, its high hydrophobicity decreases its wettability once dry, a non-reversible process called hysteresis.
soil: The order reflecting the strength of anion adhesion is as follows:
soil: Given its complexity and strong internal connectedness, soil ecologists regard soil as an ecosystem.
soil: It causes levee and dam failure, as well as sink hole formation.
soil: The negative or positive charges on colloid particles make them able to hold cations or anions, respectively, to their surfaces.
soil: Soil development would proceed most rapidly from bare rock of recent flows in a warm climate, under heavy and frequent rainfall.
soil: Such initial stages of soil development have been described on volcanoes, inselbergs, and glacial moraines.
soil: climate change, land use change) which occurred in the course of soil formation.
soil: Given sufficient time, an undifferentiated soil will evolve a soil profile that consists of two or more layers, referred to as soil horizons.
soil: For example, the application of finely ground minerals, feldspar and apatite, to soil seldom provides the necessary amounts of potassium and phosphorus at a rate sufficient for good plant growth, as most of the nutrients remain bound in the crystals of those minerals.
soil: about 30% of insects, and close to 50% of arachnids.
soil: These differ in one or more properties such as in their texture, structure, density, porosity, consistency, temperature, color, and reactivity.
soil: It was based on the idea that soils have a particular morphology based on the materials and factors that form them.
soil: mycorrhizal fungi, rhizosphere bacteria).
soil: Plant nutrient availability is affected by soil pH, which is a measure of the hydrogen ion activity in the soil solution.
soil: Soil degradation involves acidification, contamination, desertification, erosion or salination.
soil: Soil reactivity is expressed in terms of pH and is a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of the soil.
soil: The living component of an acre of soil may include 900 lb of earthworms, 2400 lb of fungi, 1500 lb of bacteria, 133 lb of protozoa and 890 lb of arthropods and algae.
soil: Substitutions in the outermost layers are more effective than for the innermost layers, as the electric charge strength drops off as the square of the distance.
soil: Soil science has two basic branches of study: edaphology and pedology.
soil: In about 1635, the Flemish chemist Jan Baptist van Helmont thought he had proved water to be the essential element from his famous five years' experiment with a willow tree grown with only the addition of rainwater.
soil: The charges result from four sources.
soil: The mineralogy of the finest soil particles, clay, is especially important.
soil: High rainfall rates can then wash the nutrients out, leaving the soil inhabited only by those organisms which are particularly efficient to uptake nutrients in very acid conditions, like in tropical rainforests.
soil: A low pH may cause the hydrogen of hydroxyl groups to be pulled into solution, leaving charged sites on the colloid available to be occupied by other cations.
soil: In addition, a soil's chemistry also determines its corrosivity, stability, and ability to absorb pollutants and to filter water.
soil: Soil microbial communities develop along electron transport chains, forming electrically conductive biofilms, and developing networks of bacterial nanowires.
soil: They are carbon (C), hydrogen (H), oxygen (O), nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K), sulfur (S), calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), iron (Fe), boron (B), manganese (Mn), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), molybdenum (Mo), nickel (Ni) and chlorine (Cl).
soil: Soil moisture levels, in order of decreasing water content, are saturation, field capacity, wilting point, air dry, and oven dry.
soil: More generally, according to pH levels, several buffer systems take precedence over each other, from calcium carbonate buffer range to iron buffer range.
soil: As the soil solution becomes more acidic (low pH, meaning an abundance of H+), the other cations more weakly bound to colloids are pushed into solution as hydrogen ions occupy exchange sites (protonation).
soil: Other studies showed that applying bentonite to degraded sandy soils reduced the risk of crop failure during drought years.
soil: Soil serves as a foundation for most construction projects.
soil: Basaltic minerals commonly weather relatively quickly, according to the Goldich dissolution series.
soil: Oxygen from above atmosphere diffuses in the soil where it is consumed and levels of carbon dioxide in excess of above atmosphere diffuse out with other gases (including greenhouse gases) as well as water vapor.
soil: Plant uptake of nutrients can only proceed when present in a plant-available form.
soil: However, colloids are not the only regulators of soil pH.
soil: By passing from a horizon to another, from the top to the bottom of the soil profile, one goes back in time, with past events registered in soil horizons like in sediment layers.
soil: It is of use in calculating the amount of lime needed to neutralise an acid soil (lime requirement).
soil: It is a common misconception that drought causes desertification.
soil: Given that at low pH toxic metals (e.g.
soil: Negatively charged sites on colloids attract and release cations in what is referred to as cation exchange.
soil: In grassland, much of the organic matter added to the soil is from the deep, fibrous, grass root systems.
soil: In field trials, conducted by scientists from the International Water Management Institute (IWMI) in cooperation with Khon Kaen University and local farmers, this had the effect of helping retain water and nutrients.
soil: The physical integrity of soil is also a prerequisite for avoiding landslides in rugged landscapes.
soil: Both living soil organisms (microbes, animals and plant roots) and soil organic matter are of critical importance to this recycling, and thereby to soil formation and soil fertility.
soil: Sampling pollen, testate amoebae and plant remains in soil horizons may help to reveal environmental changes (e.g.
soil: Most of these properties determine the aeration of the soil and the ability of water to infiltrate and to be held within the soil.
soil: In most situations, nutrients are absorbed in an ionic form from (or together with) soil water.
soil: It is now questioned whether present-day climate warming will favour or disfavour desertification, with contradictory reports about predicted rainfall trends associated with increased temperature, and strong discrepancies among regions, even in the same country.
soil: It has been shown that some monkeys consume soil, together with their preferred food (tree foliage and fruits), in order to alleviate tannin toxicity.
soil: Understanding the redox gradient is important to managing carbon sequestration, bioremediation, wetland delineation, and soil-based microbial fuel cells.
soil: Microbial enzymes may release nutrients from minerals or organic matter for use by plants and other microorganisms, sequester (incorporate) them into living cells, or cause their loss from the soil by volatilisation (loss to the atmosphere as gases) or leaching.
soil: As the planet warms, it has been predicted that soils will add carbon dioxide to the atmosphere due to increased biological activity at higher temperatures, a positive feedback (amplification).
soil: Consequences include corrosion damage, reduced plant growth, erosion due to loss of plant cover and soil structure, and water quality problems due to sedimentation.
soil: Most living things in soils, including plants, animals, bacteria, and fungi, transform nutrients and energy in organic matter and in turn are dependent on it for their requirements.
soil: In low rainfall areas, unleached calcium pushes pH to 8.5 and with the addition of exchangeable sodium, soils may reach pH 10.
soil: A pH of 3.5 has one million times more hydronium ions per litre than a solution with pH of 9.5 (9.5 − 3.5 = 6 or 106) and is thus more acidic.
soil: Soils that are all organic matter, such as peat (histosols), are infertile.
soil: However, the overuse of mineral nitrogen fertilizers and pesticides in irrigated intensive rice production has endangered these soils, forcing farmers to implement integrated practices based on Cost Reduction Operating Principles.
soil: During growing season, soil moisture is unaffected by plant functional groups or species richness while it varies with species composition.
soil: Scientists who studied soil in connection with agricultural practices considered it mainly a static substrate.
soil: Soils can effectively remove impurities, kill disease agents, and degrade contaminants, this latter property being called natural attenuation.
soil: Another difference is the frequent occurrence in the grasslands of fires that destroy large amounts of aboveground material but stimulate even greater contributions from roots.
soil: In the aim to sequester more carbon in the soil for alleviating the greenhouse effect it would be more efficient in the long-term to stimulate humification than to decrease litter decomposition.
soil: Soil has four important functions:
soil: After sufficient time, humus moves downward (leaching, eluviation) and is deposited (illuviation) in a distinctive organic-mineral surface layer called the A horizon, in which organic matter is mixed with mineral matter through the activity of burrowing animals, a process called bioturbation.
soil: Turbulent flow removes soil starting at the mouth of the seep flow and the subsoil erosion advances up-gradient.
soil: Salination occurs due to a combination of natural and human-caused processes.
soil: A pH of 7, defined as neutral, has 10−7 moles of hydronium ions per litre of solution and also 10−7 moles of OH− per litre; since the two concentrations are equal, they are said to neutralise each other.
soil: This system was established by the United States Department of Agriculture: Natural Resource Conversation Service and is currently on its second edition, released in 1999 by the Soil Survey Staff.
soil: 100% of agricultural soil samples from southwestern China contain plastic particles, 92% of which are microfibres.
soil: The fraction of the negatively-charged soil colloid exchange sites (CEC) that are occupied by base-forming cations is called base saturation.
soil: John Woodward (d.
soil: He also highlighted the importance of soil (the French terroir) in the management of vineyards.
soil: Redox factors act on soil development, with redoximorphic color features providing critical information for soil interpretation.
soil: Some scientific definitions distinguish dirt from soil by restricting the former term specifically to displaced soil.
soil: Pests (viruses) and pollutants, such as persistent organic pollutants (chlorinated pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyls), oils (hydrocarbons), heavy metals (lead, zinc, cadmium), and excess nutrients (nitrates, sulfates, phosphates) are filtered out by the soil.
soil: By contrast, tree leaves falling on the forest floor are the principal source of soil organic matter in the forest.
soil: Accordingly, soil is a complex three-state system of solids, liquids, and gases.
soil: Most soils have a dry bulk density (density of soil taking into account voids when dry) between 1.1 and 1.6 g/cm3, though the soil particle density is much higher, in the range of 2.6 to 2.7 g/cm3.
soil: Although compost is not soil, biological processes taking place during composting are similar to those occurring during decomposition and humification of soil organic matter.
soil: A particular nutrient ratio (stoichiometry) of the soil solution is thus mandatory for optimizing plant growth, a value which might differ from nutrient ratios calculated from plant composition.
soil: Iron and aluminum hydroxide clays are able to exchange their hydroxide anions (OH−) for other anions.
soil: Beyond a pH of 9, plant growth is reduced.
soil: Irrigating soil above field capacity risks percolation losses.
soil: Buffering occurs by cation exchange and neutralisation.
soil: During the European Middle Ages, Yahya Ibn al-'Awwam's handbook, with its emphasis on irrigation, guided the people of North Africa, Spain and the Middle East; a translation of this work was finally carried to the southwest of the United States when under Spanish influence.
soil: The nutrients adsorbed onto the surfaces of clay colloids and soil organic matter provide a more accessible reservoir of many plant nutrients (e.g., K, Ca, Mg, P, Zn).
soil: The enrichment of soil with guano by the Incas was rediscovered in 1802, by Alexander von Humboldt.
soil: The naming of a horizon is based on the type of material of which it is composed.
soil: Mature soil profiles typically include three basic master horizons: A, B, and C.
soil: Gram for gram, the capacity of humus to hold nutrients and water is far greater than that of clay minerals, most of the soil cation exchange capacity arising from charged carboxylic groups on organic matter.
soil: As pH rises, there are relatively more hydroxyls, which will displace anions from the colloids and force them into solution and out of storage; hence AEC decreases with increasing pH (alkalinity).
soil: Throughout history, civilizations have prospered or declined as a function of the availability and productivity of their soils.
soil: Soil provides minerals and water to plants according to several processes involved in plant nutrition.
soil: Arid conditions favour salt accumulation.
soil: It was the French agriculturalist Jean-Baptiste Boussingault who by means of experimentation obtained evidence showing that the main sources of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen for plants were air and water, while nitrogen was taken from soil.
soil: Remediation of derelict soil uses principles of geology, physics, chemistry and biology to degrade, attenuate, isolate or remove soil contaminants to restore soil functions and values.
soil: The soil texture is determined by the relative proportions of the individual particles of sand, silt, and clay that make up the soil.
soil: These include agricultural activities which leave the soil bare during times of heavy rain or strong winds, overgrazing, deforestation, and improper construction activity.
soil: bioturbation) are strongest near the surface, while the geochemical influences on soil properties increase with depth.
soil: In 1890 Sergei Winogradsky announced he had found the bacteria responsible for this transformation.
soil: Even in deserts, cyanobacteria, lichens and mosses form biological soil crusts which capture and sequester a significant amount of carbon by photosynthesis.
soil: However, the soil is the result of evolution from more ancient geological materials under the action of biotic and abiotic processes.
soil: Irrigation scheduling avoids moisture stress by replenishing depleted water before stress is induced.
soil: The organic material in soil is made up of organic compounds and includes plant, animal and microbial material, both living and dead.
soil: Soil pH is a function of many soil forming factors, and is generally lower (more acidic) where weathering is more advanced.
soil: Erosion is distinguished from weathering, since erosion also transports eroded soil away from its place of origin (soil in transit may be described as sediment).
soil: It is the surface chemistry of mineral and organic colloids that determines soil's chemical properties.
soil: Nutrients required for plants to complete their life cycle are considered essential nutrients.
soil: Intensive farming and grazing methods have degraded soils and released much of this sequestered carbon to the atmosphere.
soil: Since then, it has undergone further modifications.
soil: Supplementing the farmer's usual practice with a single application of 200 kilograms per rai (1,300 kg/ha; 1,100 lb/acre) of bentonite resulted in an average yield increase of 73%.
soil: Soils have organic compounds in varying degrees of decomposition, the rate of which is dependent on temperature, soil moisture, and aeration.
soil: The particle size distribution of a soil, its texture, determines many of the properties of that soil, in particular hydraulic conductivity and water potential, but the mineralogy of those particles can strongly modify those properties.
soil: The growth of trees is another source of disturbance, creating a micro-scale heterogeneity which is still visible in soil horizons once trees have died.
soil: Soil moisture measurement—measuring the water content of the soil, as can be expressed in terms of volume or weight—can be based on in situ probes (e.g., capacitance probes, neutron probes), or remote sensing methods.
soil: The resistance of soil to change in pH, as a result of the addition of acid or basic material, is a measure of the buffering capacity of a soil and (for a particular soil type) increases as the CEC increases.
soil: While droughts are common in arid and semiarid lands, well-managed lands can recover from drought when the rains return.
soil: Bacteria and fungi feed on raw organic matter, which are fed upon by protozoa, which in turn are fed upon by nematodes, annelids and arthropods, themselves able to consume and transform raw or humified organic matter.
soil: Most plant nutrients, with the exception of nitrogen, fixed from the atmosphere, originate from the minerals that make up the soil parent material.
soil: All irrigation water has some level of salinity.
soil: In the 1960s, a different classification system began to emerge which focused on soil morphology instead of parental materials and soil-forming factors.
soil: The net result is oxygen atoms with net negative charge and the ability to attract cations.
soil: Soil temperature and colour are self-defining.
soil: Soils with high acidity tend to have toxic amounts of aluminium and manganese.
soil: Hydroxyls may substitute for oxygens of the silica layers, a process called hydroxylation.
soil: Farmers initially responded by adding organic matter and clay from termite mound material, but this was unsustainable in the long-term because of rarefaction of termite mounds.
soil: For example, productivity has declined and soil erosion has increased in the low-clay soils of northern Thailand, following the abandonment of shifting cultivation for a more permanent land use.
soil: decomposition) could still be provided by some derelict soils.
soil: Similarly, positively charged sites on colloids can attract and release anions in the soil, giving the soil anion-exchange capacity.
soil: In 1860, while in Mississippi, Eugene W.
soil: Soil organic matter and soil clay minerals can adsorb the waste material and decrease its toxicity, although when in colloidal form they may transport the adsorbed contaminants to subsurface environments.
soil: A gram of soil can contain billions of organisms, belonging to thousands of species, mostly microbial and largely still unexplored.
soil: Soils offer plants physical support, air, water, temperature moderation, nutrients, and protection from toxins.
soil: Approximately half the sewage sludge in Europe and North America is applied to agricultural land.
soil: 60 CE, advocated the use of lime and that clover and alfalfa (green manure) should be turned under, and was used by 15 generations (450 years) under the Roman Empire until its collapse.
soil: The final stage of decomposition is called humus.
soil: CEC is the amount of exchangeable hydrogen cations (H+) that will combine with 100 grams dry weight of soil and whose measure is one milliequivalent per 100 grams of soil (1 meq/100 g).
soil: Still others held that the vital growth principal was something passed from dead plants or animals to the new plants.
soil: Adequate porosity is necessary, not just to allow the penetration of water, but also to allow gases to diffuse in and out.
soil: However, as demonstrated by aeroponics, aquaponics and hydroponics, soil material is not an absolute essential for agriculture, and soilless cropping systems have been claimed as the future of agriculture for an endless growing mankind.
soil: Irrigation of arid lands is especially problematic.
soil: From the Yellow River, over 1.6 billion tons of sediment flow each year into the ocean.
soil: These bound nutrients interact with soil water to buffer the soil solution composition (attenuate changes in the soil solution) as soils wet up or dry out, as plants take up nutrients, as salts are leached, or as acids or alkalis are added.
soil: Most soils contain organic colloidal particles called humus as well as the inorganic colloidal particles of clays.
soil: The role of carbonates should be underlined, too.
soil: Organic matter holds soils open, allowing the infiltration of air and water, and may hold as much as twice its weight in water.
soil: Resistivity refers to the resistance to conduction of electric currents and affects the rate of corrosion of metal and concrete structures which are buried in soil.
soil: Soils are initially acid and remain such when their parent materials are low in basic cations (calcium, magnesium, potassium and sodium).
soil: This adds to the burden of microplastics from other sources (e.g.
soil: The pore space allows for the infiltration and movement of air and water, both of which are critical for life existing in soil.
soil: Capillary action can result in an evaporative concentration of salts, causing land degradation through salination.
soil: He was able to deduce that most of the 165-pound (75 kg) weight of Van Helmont's willow tree derived from air.
soil: Many farmers in tropical areas, however, struggle to retain organic matter and clay in the soils they work.
soil: Hydrogen ions have a single charge and one-thousandth  of a gram (1 mg) of hydrogen ions per 100 grams dry soil gives a measure of one milliequivalent of hydrogen ion.
soil: Soil salinity control involves watertable control and flushing with higher levels of applied water in combination with tile drainage or another form of subsurface drainage.
soil: When the hydrogens of the clay hydroxyls are ionised into solution, they leave the oxygen with a negative charge (anionic clays).
soil: Fossil soil horizons from paleosols can be found within sedimentary rock sequences, allowing the study of past environments.
soil: A colloid is a small, insoluble particle ranging in size from 1 nanometer to 1 micrometer, thus small enough to remain suspended by Brownian motion in a fluid medium without settling.
soil: Soil material is also a critical component in mining, construction and landscape development (also called landscape architecture) industries.
soil: Septic drain fields treat septic tank effluent using aerobic soil processes.
soil: Both animals and humans occasionally consume soil for medicinal, recreational, or religious purposes.
soil: It is the total pore space (porosity) of soil, not the pore size, and the degree of pore interconnection (or conversely pore sealing), together with water content, air turbulence and temperature, that determine the rate of diffusion of gases into and out of soil.
soil: Atmospheric CO2 concentration is 0.04%, but in the soil pore space it may range from 10 to 100 times that level, thus potentially contributing to the inhibition of root respiration.
soil: Enchytraeidae (potworms) have the greatest percentage of their species living in soil (98.6%), followed by fungi (90%), plants (85.5%), and termites (Isoptera) (84.2%).
soil: Seventeen elements or nutrients are essential for plant growth and reproduction.
soil: In its earliest stage of decomposition, the original organic material is often called raw or fresh organic matter.
soil: Water is a critical agent in soil development due to its involvement in the dissolution, precipitation, erosion, transport, and deposition of the materials of which a soil is composed.
soil: The Greek historian Xenophon (450–355 BCE) was the first to expound upon the merits of green-manuring crops: 'But then whatever weeds are upon the ground, being turned into earth, enrich the soil as much as dung.'
Columella's Of husbandry, c.
soil: Freed cations can be made available to plants but are also prone to be leached from the soil, possibly making the soil less fertile.
soil: Soils filter and purify water and affect its chemistry.
soil: Waste management often has a soil component.
soil: These volatiles are used as chemical cues, making soil atmosphere the seat of interaction networks playing a decisive role in the stability, dynamics and evolution of soil ecosystems.
soil: The use of these terms, which do not rely on a clear chemical classification, has been considered as obsolete.
soil: Since soil has a tremendous range of available niches and habitats, it contains a prominent part of the Earth's genetic diversity.
soil: The researchers estimated that 200 farmers in northeast Thailand and 400 in Cambodia had adopted the use of clays, and that a further 20,000 farmers were introduced to the new technique.
soil: Most of the soil's CEC occurs on clay and humus colloids, and the lack of those in hot, humid, wet climates (such as tropical rainforests), due to fast leaching and decomposition, respectively, explains the apparent lack of fertility of tropical soils.
soil: Calcium, with an atomic weight 40 times that of hydrogen and with a valence of two, converts to (40 ÷ 2) × 1 milliequivalent = 20 milliequivalents of hydrogen ion per 100 grams of dry soil or 20 meq/100 g.
soil: Available water capacity is the amount of water held in a soil profile available to plants.
soil: More than one kind of erosion can occur simultaneously.
soil: The term sand boil is used to describe the appearance of the discharging end of an active soil pipe.
soil: This is especially apparent when soil parent material is saline.
soil: This prediction has, however, been questioned on consideration of more recent knowledge on soil carbon turnover.
soil: Erosion of soil is caused by water, wind, ice, and movement in response to gravity.
soil: Many soils, including desert and rocky-gravel soils, have little or no organic matter.
soil: The world's ecosystems are impacted in far-reaching ways by the processes carried out in the soil, with effects ranging from ozone depletion and global warming to rainforest destruction and water pollution.
soil: There is a hierarchy in the process of cation exchange on colloids, as cations differ in the strength of adsorption by the colloid and hence their ability to replace one another (ion exchange).
soil: Nutrients that enhance the growth of plants but are not necessary to complete the plant's life cycle are considered non-essential.
soil: Continued land abuse during droughts, however, increases land degradation.
soil: the atmosphere).
soil: The work of Liebig was a revolution for agriculture, and so other investigators started experimentation based on it.
soil: The physical properties of soils, in order of decreasing importance for ecosystem services such as crop production, are texture, structure, bulk density, porosity, consistency, temperature, colour and resistivity.
soil: Olivier de Serres, considered the father of French agronomy, was the first to suggest the abandonment of fallowing and its replacement by hay meadows within crop rotations.
soil: Soil particles can be classified by their chemical composition (mineralogy) as well as their size.
soil: Edge-of-clay oxygen atoms are not in balance ionically as the tetrahedral and octahedral structures are incomplete.
soil: As water content drops, plants have to work against increasing forces of adhesion and sorptivity to withdraw water.
soil: The movement of massive volumes of soil can be involved in surface mining, road building and dam construction.
soil: High pH results in low micro-nutrient mobility, but water-soluble chelates of those nutrients can correct the deficit.
soil: At about the same time, Friedrich Albert Fallou described soil profiles and related soil characteristics to their formation as part of his professional work evaluating forest and farmland for the principality of Saxony.
soil: Techniques include leaching, air sparging, soil conditioners, phytoremediation, bioremediation and Monitored Natural Attenuation.
soil: Soil formation is governed by five interrelated soil formation factors — climate (CL), organisms (O), topography or relief (R),  parent material (P), and time (T) — which together drive the development and evolution of soil.
soil: Adding organic matter, like ramial chipped wood or compost, to soil which is depleted in nutrients and too high in sand will boost its quality and improve production.
soil: As a result, the soils under grasslands generally develop a thicker A horizon with a deeper distribution of organic matter than in comparable soils under forests, which characteristically store most of their organic matter in the forest floor (O horizon) and thin A horizon.
soil: Experiments into what made plants grow first led to the idea that the ash left behind when plant matter was burned was the essential element, but the role of nitrogen was overlooked, which is not left on the ground after combustion, a belief which prevailed until the 19th century.
soil: These properties vary through the depth of a soil profile, i.e.
soil: In the United States, the system of Soil Taxonomy is used.
soil: The World Reference Base for Soil Resources aims to establish an international reference base for soil classification.
soil: The horizons differ greatly in thickness and generally lack sharp boundaries; their development is dependent on the type of parent material, the processes that modify those parent materials (e.g.
soil: The remaining surficial organic layer, called the O horizon, produces a more active soil due to the effect of the organisms that live within it.
soil: Soil organisms are hindered by high acidity, and most agricultural crops do best with mineral soils of pH 6.5 and organic soils of pH 5.5.
soil: After studies of soil improvement commenced, other researchers began to study soil genesis and, as a result, soil types and classifications.
soil: Crop rotation, mechanisation, chemical and natural fertilisers led to a doubling of wheat yields in western Europe between 1800 and 1900.
soil: Soil has a mean prokaryotic density of roughly 108 organisms per gram, whereas the ocean has no more than 107 prokaryotic organisms per milliliter (gram) of seawater.
soil: The application of biosolids from sewage sludge and compost can introduce microplastics to soils.
soil: Marbut, influenced by the work of the Russian team, translated Glinka's publication into English, and, as he was placed in charge of the U.S.
soil: Improved management can limit erosion.
soil: Amorphous and sesquioxide clays have the highest AEC, followed by the iron oxides.
soil: Although minerals are the origin of most nutrients, and the bulk of most nutrient elements in the soil is held in crystalline form within primary and secondary minerals, they weather too slowly to support rapid plant growth.
soil: Composting is now widely used to treat aerobically solid domestic waste and dried effluents of settling basins.
soil: Other studies showed that the classical notion of molecule is not convenient for humus, which escaped most attempts done over two centuries to resolve it in unit components, but still is chemically distinct from polysaccharides, lignins and proteins.
soil: Soil porosity consists of the void part of the soil volume and is occupied by gases or water.
soil: A few percent of the soil organic matter, with small residence time, consists of the microbial biomass and metabolites of bacteria, molds, and actinomycetes that work to break down the dead organic matter.
soil: Isomorphous substitution occurs in clay during its formation, when lower-valence cations substitute for higher-valence cations in the crystal structure.
soil: insects) below-ground.
soil: The atmosphere of soil, or soil gas, is very different from the atmosphere above.
soil: Erosion is an intrinsic natural process, but in many places it is greatly increased by human activity, especially unsuitable land use practices.
soil: A recent study suggested that soil is likely home to 59 ± 15% of the species on Earth.
soil: In Europe it has been estimated that for every million inhabitants 113 to 770 tonnes of microplastics are added to agricultural soils each year.
soil: Crevasses and pockets, local topography of the rocks, would hold fine materials and harbour plant roots.
soil: Their investigations also produced the superphosphate, consisting in the acid treatment of phosphate rock.
soil: Collectively, the Earth's body of soil is called the pedosphere.
soil: If present in equal amounts in the soil water solution:
Al3+ replaces H+ replaces Ca2+ replaces Mg2+ replaces K+ same as NH+4 replaces Na+
If one cation is added in large amounts, it may replace the others by the sheer force of its numbers.
soil: Irrigation, especially when it involves leakage from canals and overirrigation in the field, often raises the underlying water table.
soil: Reduction potential is measured in volts or millivolts.
soil: Calcareous soils regulate CO2 concentration by carbonate buffering, contrary to acid soils in which all CO2 respired accumulates in the soil pore system.
