sound: If the medium is moving, this movement may increase or decrease the absolute speed of the sound wave depending on the direction of the movement.
sound: In music, texture is often referred to as the difference between unison, polyphony and homophony, but it can also relate (for example) to a busy cafe; a sound which might be referred to as cacophony.
sound: Specific attention is given to recognising potential harmonics.
sound: Frequency, or its inverse, period.
sound: Furthermore, humans have developed culture and technology (such as music, telephone and radio) that allows them to generate, record, transmit, and broadcast sound.
sound: The duration of a sound usually lasts from the time the sound is first noticed until the sound is identified as having changed or ceased.
sound: It can be used to detect volcanic eruptions and is used in some types of music.
sound: For ordinary equations of state, the effective mass is negative, meaning that sound waves in such media act as if they carry a tiny negative gravitational mass.
sound: Duration is perceived as how "long" or "short" a sound is and relates to onset and offset signals created by nerve responses to sounds.
sound: In general, louder sounds create greater displacement of the basilar membrane, which stimulates more auditory‑nerve fibres and results in a stronger neural representation of loudness.
sound: acoustics, and is one of the few major standards organisations to define the concept explicitly, physics and engineering texts often instead define sound as a kind of propagating mechanical disturbance—i.e., a wave—rather than as a vibration.
sound: The effect is extremely small because it appears only at nonlinear order in the equations governing wave motion.
sound: In fresh water the speed of sound is approximately 1,482 m/s (5,335 km/h; 3,315 mph).
sound: If the sound and wind are moving in opposite directions, the speed of the sound wave will be decreased by the speed of the wind.
sound: Timbre is perceived as the quality of different sounds (e.g.
sound: In some species, these produce song and speech.
sound: Loudness is perceived as how "loud" or "soft" a sound is, and reflects the overall pattern of auditory‑nerve activity produced by a sound.
sound: They are:  pitch, duration, loudness, timbre, sonic texture and  spatial location.
sound: As the sound source vibrates the surrounding medium, mechanical disturbances propagate away from the source at the local speed of sound, thus resulting in a sound wave.
sound: {\displaystyle c={\sqrt {\frac {p}{\rho }}}.}
sound: γ
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\sqrt {\gamma }}}
sound: When a sound is very brief, the auditory system does not fully integrate its energy, so it is heard as softer than a longer sound presented at the same physical intensity.
sound: Less noticeable are the different noises heard, such as air hisses for the clarinet and hammer strikes for the piano.
sound: A square of this difference (i.e., a square of the deviation from the equilibrium pressure) is usually averaged over time and/or space, and a square root of this average provides a root mean square (RMS) value.
sound: The viscosity of the medium.
sound: A scientist who works in the field of acoustics is called an acoustician, while an individual specialising in acoustical engineering may be referred to as an acoustical engineer.
sound: C-weighting is used to measure peak levels.
sound: The particles of the medium do not travel with the sound wave; instead, the disturbance and its mechanical energy propagate through the medium.
sound: Some of these terms have a standardised definition (for instance in the ANSI Acoustical Terminology ANSI/ASA S1.1-2013).
sound: As a signal perceived by one of the major senses, sound is used by many species for detecting danger, navigation, predation, and communication.
sound: For many media, such as air or water, attenuation due to viscosity is negligible.
sound: c
        =
        
          
            
              p
              ρ
            
          
        
        .
sound: When sound is moving through a non‑homogeneous medium , it may be refracted (either dispersed or focused).
sound: Medium viscosity determines the rate at which sound is attenuated.
sound: p
            
              /
            
            ρ
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\sqrt {p/\rho }}}
  
,
thus coming up with the equation
sound: Amplitude, sound pressure or Intensity
Speed of sound
Direction
Sometimes speed and direction are combined as a velocity vector; wave number and direction are combined as a wave vector.
sound: The matter that supports the transmission of a sound is named the transmission medium.
sound: He believed the speed of sound in a particular substance was equal to the square root of the pressure acting on it divided by its density:
sound: The spectral complexity of a sound can also influence loudness perception.
sound: K
        =
        γ
        ⋅
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle K=\gamma \cdot p}
  
,
the final equation came up to be
sound: Below about 20 Hz, periodic acoustic stimuli may be perceived not as pitch but as discrete pulses or slow amplitude fluctuations.
sound: In humans, sensitivity to pitch typically spans from about 20 Hz to 20 kHz, with the upper limit decreasing with age.
sound: In physiology and psychology, the term sound refers to the perceptual experience produced by acoustic stimulation, distinguishing it from the physical definition used in acoustics.
sound: This pressure‑versus‑time waveform provides a complete representation of any sound or audio signal detected at that location.
sound: Wavelength, or its inverse, wavenumber.
sound: c
        =
        
          
            γ
            ⋅
            p
            
              /
            
            ρ
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle c={\sqrt {\gamma \cdot p/\rho }}}
  
.
sound: Sound is a phenomenon in which pressure disturbances propagate through an elastic material medium.
sound: "(a) Oscillation in pressure, stress, particle displacement, particle velocity, etc., propagated in a medium with internal forces (e.g., elastic or viscous), or the superposition of such propagated oscillation.
sound: For example, domestic dogs can detect frequencies above 20 kHz.
sound: Such sources typically describe sound as a perturbation in mechanical properties (e.g., pressure or particle motion) that travels through a medium and consists of medium variations (compressions and rarefactions), a formulation adopted for conceptual clarity and scientific precision.
sound: Beyond this duration, increasing the length of the sound no longer increases its perceived loudness.
sound: In 20 °C (68 °F) air at sea level, the speed of sound is approximately 343 m/s (1,230 km/h; 767 mph) using the formula v [m/s] = 331 + 0.6 T [°C].
sound: Sometimes individuals identify different pitches for the same sound, based on their personal experience of particular sound patterns.
sound: Subdisciplines include aeroacoustics, audio signal processing, architectural acoustics, bioacoustics, electroacoustics, environmental noise, musical acoustics, noise control, psychoacoustics, speech, ultrasound, underwater acoustics, and vibration.
sound: Through solids, however, sound can be transmitted as both longitudinal waves and transverse waves.
sound: The acoustic environment is the combination of all sounds (whether audible to humans or not) within a given area as modified by the environment and understood by people, in context of the surrounding environment.
sound: A complicated relationship between the density and pressure of the medium.
sound: Spatial location represents the cognitive placement of a sound in an environmental context; including the placement of a sound on both the horizontal and vertical plane, the distance from the sound source and the characteristics of the sonic environment.
sound: Sound waves are often simplified as sinusoidal plane waves, which are characterized by these generic properties:
sound: Sound travels as a mechanical wave through a medium (e.g.
sound: Longitudinal sound waves are waves of alternating pressure deviations from the equilibrium pressure, causing local regions of compression and rarefaction, while transverse waves (in solids) are waves of alternating shear stress perpendicular to the direction of propagation.
sound: This relationship, also affected by temperature, determines the speed of sound within the medium.
sound: displacement), whereas in physiological-psychological contexts it refers to the reception of such waves and their perception by the brain.
sound: To analyse audio, a complicated waveform—such as the one shown on the right—can be represented as a linear combination of sinusoidal components of different frequencies, amplitudes, and phases.
sound: Sound is transmitted through fluids (e.g.
sound: For example: white noise (random noise spread evenly across all frequencies) sounds higher in pitch than pink noise (random noise spread evenly across octaves) as white noise has more high frequency content.
sound: In a thick texture, it is possible to identify multiple sound sources using a combination of spatial location and timbre identification.
sound: The physiological reception of sound in organisms with auditory systems is limited to a finite range of frequencies.
sound: The sound pressure level (SPL) or Lp is defined as
sound: Every sound is placed on a pitch continuum from low to high.
sound: However, sound cannot propagate through a vacuum because there is no medium to support mechanical disturbances.
sound: Sound waves may be viewed using parabolic mirrors and objects that produce sound.
sound: Soundscape is the component of the acoustic environment that can be perceived by humans.
sound: This can be of great benefit in understanding distorted messages such as radio signals that suffer from interference, as (owing to this effect) the message is heard as if it was continuous.
sound: An audio engineer, by contrast, is concerned with the recording, manipulation, mixing, and reproduction of sound.
sound: In this equation, K is the elastic bulk modulus, c is the velocity of sound, and 
  
    
      
        ρ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rho }
  
 is the density.
sound: If relativistic effects are important, the speed of sound is calculated from the relativistic Euler equations.
sound: Sound moves the fastest in solid atomic hydrogen at about 36,000 m/s (129,600 km/h; 80,530 mph).
sound: While ANSI/ASA S1.1‑2013 provides the standard terminological definition of sound used in U.S.
sound: Although sounds of such low frequency are too low for humans to hear as a pitch, these sound are heard as discrete pulses (like the 'popping' sound of an idling motorcycle).
sound: The speed of sound depends on the medium the waves pass through, and is a fundamental property of the material.
sound: Commonly used reference sound pressures, defined in the standard ANSI S1.1-1994, are 20 μPa in air and 1 μPa in water.
sound: Though intuitively expectable for solids, this also applies for liquids and gases.
sound: Unlike longitudinal sound waves, transverse sound waves have the property of polarisation.
sound: Selection of a particular pitch is determined by pre-conscious examination of vibrations, including their frequencies and the balance between them.
sound: The term sound is sometimes restricted to vibrations within the human hearing range, though other species exhibit markedly different auditory limits.
sound: Ultrasound devices operate with frequencies from 20 kHz up to several gigahertz.
sound: At an instant in time, the pressure, velocity, and displacement vary spatially.
sound: Although sound transmission involves many physical processes, the signal received at a point (such as a microphone or the ear) can be fully described as a time‑varying pressure.
sound: In steel, the speed of sound is about 5,960 m/s (21,460 km/h; 13,330 mph).
sound: Sound waves are generated by a sound source, such as a vibrating diaphragm of a loudspeaker.
sound: For example, sound moving through wind will have its speed of propagation increased by the speed of the wind if the sound and wind are moving in the same direction.
sound: Without a specified reference sound pressure, a value expressed in decibels cannot represent a sound pressure level.
sound: The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) has defined several weighting schemes.
sound: Many species, such as frogs, birds, marine and terrestrial mammals, have also developed special organs to produce sound.
sound: Sometimes this is not directly related to the physical duration of a sound.
sound: The word texture, in this context, relates to the cognitive separation of auditory objects.
sound: Infrasound is sound waves with frequencies lower than 20 Hz.
sound: water, crystals, air).
sound: For simple sounds, pitch relates to the frequency of the slowest vibration in the sound (called the fundamental harmonic).
sound: Media may be any form of matter, whether solids, liquids, gases or plasmas.
sound: For example; in a noisy environment, gapped sounds (sounds that stop and start) can sound as if they are continuous because the offset messages are missed owing to disruptions from noises in the same general bandwidth.
sound: c
        =
        
          
            K
            
              /
            
            ρ
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle c={\sqrt {K/\rho }}}
  
,
which is also known as the Newton–Laplace equation.
sound: Theoretical work indicates that sound waves carry an extremely small effective gravitational mass.
sound: For example, the speed of sound in gases depends on temperature.
sound: This was later disproven and the French mathematician Laplace corrected the formula by deducing that the phenomenon of sound travelling is not isothermal, as believed by Newton, but adiabatic.
sound: However, in sound perception it can often be used to identify the source of a sound and is an important component of timbre perception (see below).
sound: As the human ear can detect sounds with a wide range of amplitudes, sound pressure is often measured as a level on a logarithmic decibel scale.
sound: This identity is based on information gained from frequency transients, noisiness, unsteadiness, perceived pitch and the spread and intensity of overtones in the sound over an extended time frame.
sound: Perceived loudness also depends on how sound energy is distributed over time.
sound: Motion of the medium itself.
sound: Acoustics is the interdisciplinary scientific study of mechanical waves, vibrations, sound, ultrasound, and infrasound in gaseous, liquid, or solid media.
sound: Thus, the speed of sound is proportional to the square root of the ratio of the bulk modulus of the medium to its density.
sound: Ultrasound is not different from audible sound in its physical properties, but cannot be heard by humans.
sound: Though sensitivity to sound varies among all organisms, the human ear is sensitive to frequencies ranging from 20 Hz to 20 kHz.
sound: The first significant effort towards measurement of the speed of sound was made by Isaac Newton.
sound: Noise is a term often used to refer to an unwanted sound.
sound: The way a sound changes over time provides most of the information for timbre identification.
sound: Complex tones, which activate a broader range of auditory‑nerve fibres, are often judged as louder than simple tones (such as sine waves) even when matched for physical amplitude.
sound: This mass arises from nonlinear corrections to the stress–energy of the wave, and implies that sound waves both respond to gravity and generate a very weak gravitational field of their own.
sound: In science and engineering, noise is an undesirable component that obscures a wanted signal.
sound: This process, known as temporal summation, operates over a window of roughly 200 ms.
sound: "it's an oboe!").
sound: Applications of acoustics are found in many areas of modern society.
sound: Whales, elephants and other animals can detect infrasound and use it to communicate.
sound: The field of psychoacoustics and the broader discipline of psychophysics study how organisms detect and interpret such stimuli.
sound: Even though a small section of the wave form from each instrument looks very similar, differences in changes over time between the clarinet and the piano are evident in both loudness and harmonic content.
sound: the thud of a fallen rock, the whir of a drill, the tone of a musical instrument or the quality of a voice) and represents the pre-conscious allocation of a sonic identity to a sound (e.g.
sound: Eric Mack (20 May 2019).
sound: "Stanford scientists created a sound so loud it instantly boils water".
sound: At a fixed distance from the source, the pressure, velocity, and displacement of the medium's particles vary in time.
sound: Those physical properties and the speed of sound change with ambient conditions.
sound: A-weighting attempts to match the response of the human ear to noise and A-weighted sound pressure levels are labeled dBA.
sound: In the context of physics, it is characterised as a mechanical wave of pressure or related quantities (e.g.
sound: Since the human ear does not have a flat spectral response, sound pressures are often frequency weighted so that the measured level matches perceived levels more closely.
sound: He added another factor to the equation—gamma—and multiplied
sound: More recent approaches have also considered temporal envelope and temporal fine structure as perceptually relevant analyses.
sound: Ultrasound is sound waves with frequencies higher than 20,000 Hz.
sound: The speed of sound is also slightly sensitive, being subject to a second-order anharmonic effect, to the sound amplitude, which means there are non-linear propagation effects, such as the production of harmonics and mixed tones not present in the original sound (see parametric array).
sound: where p is the root-mean-square sound pressure and 
  
    
      
        
          p
          
            
              r
              e
              f
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle p_{\mathrm {ref} }}
  
 is a reference sound pressure.
sound: Examples of the significance and application of sound include music, medical imaging techniques, oral language and parts of science.
sound: In the case of complex sounds, pitch perception can vary.
sound: The propagation of sound in a medium is influenced primarily by:
sound: gases, plasmas, and liquids) as longitudinal waves, also called compression waves.
sound: Pitch is perceived as how "low" or "high" a sound is and represents the cyclic, repetitive nature of the vibrations that make up sound.
sound: Medical ultrasound is commonly used for diagnostics and treatment.
sound: There are, historically, six experimentally separable ways in which sound waves are analysed.
sound: Sound pressure is the difference, in a given medium, between average local pressure and the pressure in the sound wave.
sound: Earth's atmosphere, water, and virtually any physical phenomenon, such as fire, rain, wind, surf, or earthquake, produces (and is characterized by) its unique sounds.
