south_america: The main destinations of this phase were the Caribbean colonies and Brazil, as European nations built up economically slave-dependent colonies in the New World.
south_america: South American nations have a rich variety of music.
south_america: Kardecist Spiritism can be found in several countries.
south_america: Brazil sent naval and air forces to combat German and Italian submarines off the continent and throughout the South Atlantic, in addition to sending an expeditionary force to fight in the Italian Campaign.
south_america: The average annual temperatures in the Amazon basin oscillate around 27 °C (81 °F), with low thermal amplitudes and high rainfall indices.
south_america: Peruvian cuisine mixes elements from Chinese, Japanese, Spanish, Italian, African, Arab, Andean, and Amazonic food.
south_america: To curtail opposition, their governments detained tens of thousands of political prisoners, many of whom were tortured or killed on inter-state collaboration.
south_america: The most important highway in the country is the Route 5 (Pan-American Highway).
south_america: Eventually, the natives and the Spaniards interbred, forming a mestizo class.
south_america: South America shares, with Europe, supremacy over football: all winners in the FIFA World Cup and FIFA Club World Cup have come from these two continents.
south_america: The population is formed by descendants of Europeans (mainly Spaniards, Portuguese and Italians), Africans and Amerindians.
south_america: However, due to a consistently strong wind shear and a weak Intertropical Convergence Zone, South Atlantic tropical cyclones are rare.
south_america: The continent's cultural and ethnic outlook has its origin with the interaction of Indigenous peoples with European conquerors and immigrants and, more locally, with African slaves.
south_america: International indebtedness became a significant problem in the late 1980s, and some countries, despite having strong democracies, have not developed political institutions capable of handling such crises without resorting to unorthodox economic policies.
south_america: In renewable energies, in 2020, the country ranked 45th in the world in terms of installed wind energy (0.5 GW), 76th in the world in terms of installed solar energy (0.1 GW) and 20th in the world in terms of installed hydroelectric power (12.6 GW).
south_america: Enslaved Africans were brought to the Americas on slave ships, under inhuman conditions and ill-treatment, and those who survived were sold in slave markets.
south_america: In renewable energies, in 2020, the country ranked 27th in the world in terms of installed wind energy (2.6 GW), 42nd in the world in terms of installed solar energy (0.7 GW) and 21st in the world in terms of installed hydroelectric power (11.3 GW).
south_america: The rise of plant growing and the subsequent appearance of permanent human settlements allowed for the multiple and overlapping beginnings of civilizations in South America.
south_america: Brazil was the 10th largest oil producer in the world in 2019, with 2.8 million barrels/day.
south_america: The Genographic Project determined the average Peruvian from Lima had about 25% European ancestry, 68% Native American, 3% Southwest Asian ancestry and 2% sub-Saharan African.
south_america: The Mapuche in Central and Southern Chile resisted the European and Chilean settlers, waging the Arauco War for more than 300 years.
south_america: In tropical regions the most important crops are coffee, cocoa and bananas, mainly in Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador.
south_america: The three most important highways in the country are Route 9, Route 7 and Route 14.
south_america: Chile, although currently not a major energy producer, has great future potential for solar energy production in the Atacama Desert region.
south_america: It has a Light Rail System called VLT, with small electrical trams at low speed, while São Paulo has inaugurated a monorail.
south_america: Encyclopædia Britannica.
south_america: However, it was not as strong as in Central America.
south_america: The two main merchant fleets also belong to Brazil and Argentina.
south_america: The dictator Lopez was killed in battle and a new government was instituted in alliance with Brazil, which maintained occupation forces in the country until 1876.
south_america: In January 2021, 3.168 million barrels of oil per day and 139 million cubic meters of natural gas were extracted.
south_america: An estimated 4.9 million slaves from Africa came to Brazil during the period from 1501 to 1866.
south_america: The Colombian Fernando Botero (1932–2023) was one of the greatest exponents of painting and sculpture that was able to develop a recognizable style of his own.
south_america: With the anticipation of the coronation of Pedro II to the throne of Brazil, the country could stabilize and fight the separatists, which the province of Santa Catarina had joined in 1839.
south_america: All this instability in the platine region interfered with the goals of other countries such as Brazil, which was soon forced to take sides.
south_america: Terrace farming was a useful form of agriculture.
south_america: The Brazilian railway network has an extension of about 30,000 kilometres (19,000 miles).
south_america: Between 1836 and 1839, the War of the Confederation broke out between the short-lived Peru-Bolivian Confederation and Chile, with the support of the Argentine Confederation.
south_america: Colombia has important ports such as Buenaventura, Cartagena Container Terminal and Puerto Bolivar.
south_america: Argentines, Chileans, Uruguayans, Brazilians, Bolivians, and Venezuelans regularly consume wine.
south_america: Brazil was the only South American country that participated in the First World War.
south_america: In contrast to other European colonies in the Americas which mainly used the labor of African slaves, Spanish colonists mainly enslaved indigenous Americans.
south_america: South Americans are culturally influenced by their indigenous peoples, the historic connection with the Iberian Peninsula and Africa, and waves of immigrants from around the globe.
south_america: Also in this period, the first major naval battle of World War II took place in the South Atlantic close to the continental mainland: the Battle of the River Plate, between a British cruiser squadron and a German pocket battleship.
south_america: In the Pampas of Argentina, Uruguay and South of Brazil the rainfall is moderate, with rains well distributed during the year.
south_america: The pro-Brazilian Uruguayan government showed its support by sending troops.
south_america: Since the end of the economic crisis in Brazil and Argentina between 1998 and 2002, which led to economic recession, rising unemployment and falling income, the industrial and service sectors have recovered.
south_america: In January this year, 3.168 million barrels of oil per day and 138.753 million cubic meters of natural gas were extracted.
south_america: The region was initially partitioned between the Dutch, French and British before fully coming under the control of Britain.
south_america: Argentina has won the Copa América 16 times, the most among all countries.
south_america: Brazil has won the FIFA World Cup a record five times; Argentina three times, Uruguay twice.
south_america: Colombia is the world's largest producer of emeralds.
south_america: Brazil's hydroelectric potential has not yet been fully exploited, so the country still has the capacity to build several renewable energy plants in its territory.
south_america: It is home to many unique species of animals including the llama, anaconda, piranha, jaguar, eel, vicuña, and tapir, and to one of the largest known insects in the world, the Titan beetle.
south_america: Licensed under CC BY 4.0 (license statement/permission).
south_america: This group is significantly present in Brazil, Colombia, Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana, Venezuela and Ecuador.
south_america: Brazil is one of the main world producers of hydroelectric power.
south_america: Ecuador, because it consumes little energy, is part of OPEC and was the 27th largest oil producer in the world in 2020, being the 22nd largest exporter in 2014.
south_america: An estimated 90% of South Americans are Christians (82% Roman Catholic, 8% other Christian denominations mainly traditional Protestants and Evangelicals but also Orthodox), accounting for 19% of Christians worldwide.
south_america: As accurate measurements of longitude were impossible at that time, the line was not strictly enforced, resulting in a Portuguese expansion of Brazil across the meridian.
south_america: Rather, he was making a political statement in opposition to the monarchist and centralist ideas that back then permeated Buenos Aires politics.
south_america: The Amazon River system has about 13,000 km (8,100 mi) of waterways, but its possibilities for hydroelectric power use are still unknown.
south_america: Caral–Supe governing class established a trade network and developed agriculture then followed by Chavín by 900 BC, according to some estimates and archaeological finds.
south_america: Although Brazil was in 2013 among the five largest producers of textiles in the world, its textile industry still lacks proper integration in the world trade.
south_america: Finally, with the expansion of the Portuguese and Spanish languages, many cultures that were previously separated became united through that of Latin American.
south_america: At the Altiplano, Tiahuanaco or Tiwanaku (100 BC – 1200 AD, Bolivia) managed a large commercial network based on religion.
south_america: Physiographically, South America also includes some of the nearby islands.
south_america: The nationalization of industries, by which the state controls entire economic sectors (as opposed of private companies doing it), has become a prominent political issue in the region.
south_america: Besides their use as sources of meat and wool, these animals were used for transportation of goods.
south_america: Nuclear energy is produced by two reactors at Angra.
south_america: The country is the holder of the second largest herd of cattle in the world, 22% of the world herd.
south_america: Imports previously accounted for more than 70% of the country's oil needs but Brazil became self-sufficient in oil in 2006–2007.
south_america: There has been an increased push towards regional integration, with the creation of uniquely South American institutions such as the Andean Community, Mercosur and Unasur.
south_america: The Germans still made numerous attacks on Brazilian ships on the coast, causing Brazil to declare war on the Axis powers in 1942, being the only South American country to fight in this war (and in both World Wars).
south_america: The distribution of rainfall is related to the regime of winds and air masses.
south_america: It has four different trails and international connections with Paraguay, Bolivia, Chile, Brazil and Uruguay.
south_america: South America has an area of 17,840,000 square kilometers (6,890,000 sq mi).
south_america: Punta del Este, Florianópolis and Mar del Plata are among the largest resorts in South America.
south_america: Many of these are now defunct, and only a small portion of the ELN remains, along with the stronger, though also greatly reduced, FARC.
south_america: His attempt to cross Argentinian territory without Argentinian approval led the pro-Brazilian Argentine government into the war.
south_america: The production of staple foods such as vegetables, corn or beans is large, but focused on domestic consumption.
south_america: The anchovy catch reaches thousands of tonnes, and tuna is abundant, Peru is a major exporter.
south_america: Almost all passenger transport in the Amazon plain is done via this waterway, in addition to practically all cargo transportation that is directed to the major regional centers of Belém and Manaus.
south_america: Furthermore, the Spaniards brought their language to the degree they did with their religion, although the Roman Catholic Church's evangelization in Quechua, Aymara, and Guaraní actually contributed to the continuous use of these native languages albeit only in the oral form.
south_america: They established the Muisca Confederation of many clans, or cacicazgos, that had a free trade network among themselves.
south_america: In beef production, Colombia is one of the 20 largest producers in the world.
south_america: The Santiago subway is the longest subway network in South America spanning 103 kilometres (64 miles), while the São Paulo subway is the most heavily utilised with more than 4.6 million passengers per day.
south_america: The continent became a battlefield of the Cold War in the late 20th century.
south_america: He organized a fleet to reach Peru by sea, and sought the military support of various rebels from the Viceroyalty of Peru.
south_america: After independence, most mestizos had native fathers and European or mestizo mothers.
south_america: The indigenous peoples of the Americas in various European colonies were forced to work in European plantations and mines; along with enslaved Africans who were also introduced in the proceeding centuries via the Atlantic slave trade.
south_america: The following are those of Chile, Venezuela, Peru and Colombia.
south_america: Geopolitically and geographically, all of Panama – including the segment east of the Panama Canal in the isthmus – is typically included in North America alone and among the countries of Central America.
south_america: These 4 countries are the ones with the best road infrastructure and with the largest number of double-lane highways.
south_america: This wide gap can be seen in large South American cities where makeshift shacks and slums lie in the vicinity of skyscrapers and luxury apartments; many South Americans live on less than $2 per day.
south_america: The country has great potential for the production of wind energy in the Patagonia region.
south_america: In the food industry, in 2019, Brazil was the second largest exporter of processed foods in the world.
south_america: Chile has almost 7,000 km (4,300 mi) of railways, with connections to Argentina, Bolivia and Peru.
south_america: In the tourism sector, negotiations began in 2005 to promote tourism and increase air connections within the region.
south_america: These resources have brought high income to its countries, especially in times of war or of rapid economic growth by industrialized countries elsewhere.
south_america: Chile contributes about a third of the world copper production.
south_america: In Argentina, European influence accounts for 65–80% of the genetic background, Amerindian (indigenous people) 17–31% and sub-Saharan African 2–4%.
south_america: Early in the 20th century, the three wealthiest South American countries engaged in a vastly expensive naval arms race which began after the introduction of a new warship type, the "dreadnought".
south_america: Irrigation systems were also developed at this time, which aided in the rise of an agrarian society.
south_america: In terms of the treaty, all land to the west of the line (known to comprise most of the South American soil) would belong to Spain, and all land to the east, to Portugal.
south_america: The richest 10% receive over 40% of the nation's income in Bolivia, Brazil and Colombia, while the poorest 20% receive 4% or less.
south_america: In 2018, the chemical industry of Brazil was the 8th largest in the world.
south_america: In honey production, Argentina ranks among the five largest.
south_america: Economically, they began a transition to neoliberal economic policies.
south_america: According to a genetic research in 2020, Peruvian genetic admixture indicates 63,7% Amerindian, 29,6% European, 4,8% African ancestry and 2,9% Asian.
south_america: On one hand, there are several sparsely populated areas such as tropical forests, the Atacama Desert and the icy portions of Patagonia.
south_america: In 2020, Brazil was the 2nd largest country in the world in the production of energy through biomass (energy production from solid biofuels and renewable waste), with 15,2 GW installed.
south_america: Peace lasted only a short time: in 1864, the Uruguayan factions faced each other again in the Uruguayan War.
south_america: Since 1930, the continent has experienced growth and diversification in most economic sectors.
south_america: People in Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, southern Chile, Bolivia and Southern Brazil drink mate, an herb which is brewed.
south_america: European infectious diseases (smallpox, influenza, measles, and typhus) – to which the native populations had no immune resistance – caused large-scale depopulation of the native population under Spanish control.
south_america: The Paraguayan War began when the Paraguayan dictator Francisco Solano López ordered the invasion of the Brazilian provinces of Mato Grosso and Rio Grande do Sul.
south_america: The artist Oswaldo Guayasamín (1919–1999) from Ecuador, represented with his painting style the feeling of the peoples of Latin America highlighting social injustices in various parts of the world.
south_america: Nonetheless, allegations of corruption are still very common, and several countries have developed crises which have forced the resignation of their governments, although, on most occasions, regular civilian succession has continued.
south_america: Two years later Bolívar's forces beat the Spanish at the Battle of Ayacucho, securing the independence of Peru and the rest of South America.
south_america: The region's installed electricity generation capacity totaled almost 42,500 MW, which represented about a third of Brazil's generation capacity.
south_america: The newly independent nations began a process of fragmentation, with several civil and international wars.
south_america: Buenos Aires and São Paulo figure among the largest Jewish populations by urban area.
south_america: Brazil has more than 1.7 million kilometres (1.1 million miles) of roads, of which 215,000 km (134,000 mi) are paved, and about 14,000 km (8,700 mi) are divided highways.
south_america: French is the official language of French Guiana and the second language in Amapá, Brazil.
south_america: Due to the Andes Mountains, Amazon River and Amazon Forest, there have always been difficulties in implementing larger scale transcontinental or bi-oceanic highways.
south_america: Two were in Brazil (1950, 2014), Chile (1962), and Argentina (1978).
south_america: It has an installed generation capacity of 14 GW for 20 generating units of 700 MW each.
south_america: Spaniards and Portuguese brought the western European architectural style to the continent, and helped to improve infrastructures like bridges, roads, and the sewer system of the cities they discovered or conquered.
south_america: The Bolivians were completely defeated in 1880 and Lima was occupied in 1881.
south_america: South America is home to one of the largest populations of Africans.
south_america: The two main languages are by far Spanish and Portuguese, followed by English, French and Dutch in smaller numbers.
south_america: Most of the continent's energy is generated through hydroelectric power plants, but there is also an important share of thermoelectric and wind energy.
south_america: Brazil has some of the busiest seaports in South America, such as Port of Santos, Port of Rio de Janeiro, Port of Paranaguá, Port of Itajaí, Port of Rio Grande, Port of São Francisco do Sul and Suape Port.
south_america: Napoleon captured King Ferdinand VII of Spain, and appointed his own brother instead.
south_america: The most industrialized countries in South America are Brazil, Argentina, Colombia and Chile respectively.
south_america: Mining is one of the most important economic sectors in South America, especially for Chile, Peru and Bolivia, whose economies are highly dependent on this sector.
south_america: However, the concentration in producing one, or few, major export commercial products has often hindered the development and diversification of its economies.
south_america: Five years after the beginning of the war, Ferdinand VII returned to the throne and began the Absolutist Restoration, as the royalists got the upper hand in the conflict.
south_america: Beginning in the 1530s, the people and natural resources of South America were repeatedly exploited by foreign conquistadors, first from Spain and later from Portugal.
south_america: Panama, Ascension Island (a part of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha) and Bouvet Island (a dependency of Norway) may also be considered parts of South America.
south_america: In 2019, Argentina was the 4th largest world producer of lithium, the 9th largest world producer of silver, the 17th largest world producer of gold and the 7th largest world producer of boron.
south_america: The distribution of the average temperatures in the region presents a constant regularity from the 30° of latitude south, when the isotherms tend, more and more, to be confused with the degrees of latitude.
south_america: In 1991 these countries signed a peaceful nuclear cooperation agreement.
south_america: They also significantly increased economic and trade relations, not just between the old and new world but between the different South American regions and peoples.
south_america: The first separatist attempt was in 1820 by the Argentine province of Entre Ríos, led by a caudillo.
south_america: Later in 1836, while Brazil was experiencing the chaos of the regency, Rio Grande do Sul proclaimed its independence motivated by a tax crisis.
south_america: These metropolitan areas all have a population of above 4 million and include the São Paulo metropolitan area, Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area, and Belo Horizonte metropolitan area.
south_america: São Paulo accounted for 40% of this capacity; Minas Gerais for about 25%; Rio de Janeiro for 13.3%; and Espírito Santo accounted for the rest.
south_america: In natural gas, the country was, in 2015, the 40th largest producer in the world.
south_america: In Brazil four megaregions exist including the Expanded Metropolitan Complex of São Paulo with more than 32 million inhabitants.
south_america: After this, enslaved Africans, who had developed immunities to these diseases, were quickly brought in to replace them.
south_america: The fluctuation in the price of commodities in international markets has led historically to major highs and lows, booms and busts, in the economies of South American states, often causing political instability.
south_america: At least three South American indigenous languages (Quechua, Aymara, and Guarani) are recognized along with Spanish as national languages.
south_america: South America is home to the longest-running international football tournament, the Copa América, which has been contested since 1916.
south_america: South American cultures began domesticating llamas and alpacas in the highlands of the Andes circa 3500 BC.
south_america: North of the Andean plateaus up to the north of the Chilean coast a Mediterranean oceanic climate dominates with temperate summers and cold winters akin to Cape Breton.
south_america: In 1822 the two men met at the Guayaquil Conference in Ecuador, where they failed to agree on governance strategies for the liberated nations.
south_america: The country lost 40% of its territory to Brazil and Argentina and lost 60% of its population, including 90% of the men.
south_america: They placed their own actions within the US Cold War doctrine of "National Security" against internal subversion.
south_america: In the late 19th century, the most democratic countries were Brazil, Chile, Argentina and Uruguay.
south_america: By 2000 BC, many agrarian communities had been settled throughout the Andes and the surrounding regions.
south_america: In temperate latitudes, winters and summers are milder than in North America.
south_america: All South American countries are presidential republics with the exception of Suriname, a parliamentary republic.
south_america: Spanish is the official language of most countries, along with other native languages in some countries.
south_america: Portuguese and Spanish are the most spoken languages in South America, with approximately 200 million speakers each.
south_america: In 2019, Peru was the 2nd largest world producer of copper and silver, 8th largest world producer of gold, 3rd largest world producer of lead, 2nd largest world producer of zinc, 4th largest world producer of tin, 5th largest world producer of boron and 4th largest world producer of molybdenum.
south_america: Portuguese is the official language of Brazil.
south_america: A wide range of sports are played in the continent of South America, with football being the most popular overall, while baseball is the most popular in Venezuela.
south_america: In Ecuador, Amerindians comprise two-fifths of the population.
south_america: The Conflict came to an end by a process of compromise by which both Riograndense Republic and Juliana Republic were reincorporated as provinces in 1845.
south_america: In 2019 Brazil reached a total of 170,000 megawatts of installed power generation capacity, of which more than 75% are from renewable sources (the majority, hydroelectric).
south_america: The port of Buenos Aires is historically the first in individual importance, but the area known as Up-River, which stretches along 67 kilometres (42 miles) of the Santa Fé portion of the Paraná River, brings together 17 ports that concentrates around 50% of the total exports of the country.
south_america: This is because the most extensive part of the continent is in the equatorial zone (the region has more areas of equatorial plains than any other region), therefore giving the Southern Cone more oceanic influence, which moderates year round temperatures.
south_america: Relative to Africa, Asia, and Europe, post-1900 South America has been a peaceful continent with few wars, although high rates of violent crime remain a concern in some countries.
south_america: Some of the most irradiated Brazilian States are MG ("Minas Gerais"), BA ("Bahia") and GO (Goiás), which have indeed world irradiation level records.
south_america: In the production of silver, in 2017 the country extracted 15.5 tonnes (15.3 long tons; 17.1 short tons).
south_america: Systems of forced labor, such as the haciendas and mining industry's mit'a also contributed to the depopulation.
south_america: Brazil has a Portuguese-language pop rock industry as well a great variety of other music genres.
south_america: Brazil, followed by Peru, has the largest Japanese, Korean and Chinese communities in South America.
south_america: They migrated south through North America, and eventually reached South America through the Isthmus of Panama.
south_america: South America occupies the southern portion of the Americas.
south_america: Fishing became a widespread practice along the coast, helping establish fish as a primary source of food.
south_america: Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, Peru suffered from an internal conflict.
south_america: This appointment provoked popular resistance, which created Juntas to rule in the name of the captured king.
south_america: Livestock raising for meat exports is significant in Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay and Colombia.
south_america: Around the 7th century, both Tiahuanaco and Wari or Huari Empire (600–1200, Central and northern Peru) expanded its influence to all the Andean region, imposing the Huari urbanism and Tiahuanaco religious iconography.
south_america: Chile annexed territories of both countries leaving Bolivia landlocked.
south_america: Bolívar led a great uprising in the north, then led his army south towards Lima, the capital of the Viceroyalty of Peru.
south_america: Brazil is by far the most populous South American country, with almost half of the continent's population, followed by Colombia, Argentina, Venezuela, and Peru.
south_america: As of October 2022, according to ONS, total installed capacity of photovoltaic solar was 21 GW, with average capacity factor of 23%.
south_america: The continent had 2 of the 30 largest world producers of coal in 2018: Colombia (12th) and Brazil (27th).
south_america: Given a long history of colonialism, the overwhelming majority of South Americans speak Portuguese or Spanish, and societies and states are rich in Western traditions.
south_america: Colombia has about 210,000 km (130,000 mi) of roads, and about 2,300 km (1,400 mi) are divided highways.
south_america: Colombia has had an ongoing, though diminished internal conflict, which started in 1964 with the creation of Marxist guerrillas (FARC-EP) and then involved several illegal armed groups of leftist-leaning ideology as well as the private armies of powerful drug lords.
south_america: Part of Religions in South America (2013):
south_america: It is located at the Central Nuclear Almirante Álvaro Alberto (CNAAA) on the Praia de Itaorna in Angra dos Reis, Rio de Janeiro.
south_america: In the semiarid coast of the Brazilian Northeast the rains are linked to a monsoon regime.
south_america: Most agricultural and livestock products are destined for the domestic market and local consumption.
south_america: Some countries created from provinces of larger countries stayed as such up to modern times (such as Paraguay or Uruguay), while others were reconquered and reincorporated into their former countries (such as the Republic of Entre Ríos and the Riograndense Republic).
south_america: The independence of South America was secured by Simón Bolívar (Venezuela) and José de San Martín (Argentina), the two most important Libertadores.
south_america: Other important Pre-Columbian cultures include: the Cañaris (in south central Ecuador), Chimú Empire (1300–1470, Peruvian northern coast), Chachapoyas, and the Aymaran kingdoms (1000–1450, Western Bolivia and southern Peru).
south_america: Less than 10% of the known electrical potential of the Andes had been used until the mid-1960s.
south_america: Some of the most modern roads extend through northern and south-east Argentina; and south of Brazil, a vast road complex aims to link Brasília, the federal capital, to the South, Southeast, Northeast and Northern regions of Brazil.
south_america: In chicken meat production, Argentina ranks among the 15 largest producers in the world, and Peru and Colombia among the 20 biggest producers.
south_america: In 2019, Brazil had 217 hydroelectric plants in operation, with an installed capacity of 98,581 MW, that constitutes 60.16% of the country's energy generation.
south_america: Chile has important international airports such as Santiago, Antofagasta, Puerto Montt, Punta Arenas and Iquique, among others.
south_america: In some places indigenous people still practice a traditional lifestyle, based on subsistence agriculture or as hunter-gatherers.
south_america: Muslims account for 7% of the Guyanese population and 14% of the Surinamese population.
south_america: The result was a stalemate, ending with the British government arranging for the independence of Uruguay.
south_america: The country is among the 25 largest gold producers in the world.
south_america: Cities were built with precise, unmatched stonework, constructed over many levels of mountain terrain.
south_america: The Amazon rainforests possess high biodiversity, with Brazil estimated to contain 10% of Earth's species.
south_america: The northern and eastern parts of the Argentine pampas have a humid subtropical climate with dry winters and humid summers commonly classified as a "Chinese type" climate, while the western and eastern ranges have a subtropical climate similar to the Dinaric Alps in Europe.
south_america: Other languages found in South America include Sranan Tongo, Hindustani and Javanese in Suriname; Italian in Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Venezuela; and German in certain pockets of Argentina, Chile and Brazil.
south_america: The war was fought mostly in the actual territory of Peru and ended with a Confederate defeat and the dissolution of the Confederacy and annexation of many territories by Argentina.
south_america: Bolivia stand out in the production of natural gas, where it was the 31st largest in the world in 2015.
south_america: South America has been witness to the growth of megapolitan areas.
south_america: Brazil is the co-owner of the Itaipu Plant with Paraguay: the dam is located on the Paraná River, located on the border between countries.
south_america: The country was the second largest producer of beef in 2019, responsible for 15% of global production.
south_america: 25 (11th ed.).
south_america: The Brazilians Machado de Assis and João Guimarães Rosa are widely regarded as the greatest Brazilian writers.
south_america: European colonists were heavily dependent on indigenous labor during the initial phases of settlement to maintain the subsistence economy, and natives were often captured by expeditions.
south_america: At the beginning, many mestizos of the Andean region were offspring of Amerindian mothers and Spanish fathers.
south_america: First, Napoleon invaded Portugal, but the House of Braganza avoided capture by escaping to Brazil.
south_america: Maize was present in northern South America by around 6,000 years ago.
south_america: Colombia's biggest highlight is in coal, where the country was, in 2018, the world's 12th largest producer and the 5th largest exporter.
south_america: The Paraguayan version, terere, differs from other forms of mate in that it is served cold.
south_america: Historic relics, architectural and natural wonders, a diverse range of foods and culture, colorful cities, and pretty landscapes attract millions of tourists every year to South America.
south_america: Flags of South America
List of World Heritage Sites in South America
South American Games – Multi-sport athletic event in South America
Lists of islands
south_america: The World Bank annually lists the top manufacturing countries by total manufacturing value.
south_america: The indigenous population is also a significant element in most other countries in South America.
south_america: The South Region owns the Itaipu Dam, which was the largest hydroelectric plant in the world for several years, until the inauguration of Three Gorges Dam in China.
south_america: The capture of crustaceans is large, particularly in northeastern Brazil and Chile.
south_america: On the coast of Peru, northeast and south of Brazil, cotton is grown.
south_america: Historically, the Hispanic countries were founded as Republican dictatorships led by caudillos.
south_america: The largest ports in commercial movement are those of Buenos Aires, Santos, Rio de Janeiro, Bahía Blanca, Rosario, Valparaíso, Recife, Salvador, Montevideo, Paranaguá, Rio Grande, Fortaleza, Belém and Maracaibo.
south_america: The Falklands War began and 74 days later Argentine forces surrendered.
south_america: Meanwhile, San Martín led an army across the Andes Mountains, along with Chilean expatriates, and liberated Chile.
south_america: The Peru–Bolivian Confederation, a short-lived union of Peru and Bolivia, was blocked by Chile in the War of the Confederation (1836–1839) and again during the War of the Pacific (1879–1883).
south_america: Administered as a dependency of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, the island is geopolitically a part of Africa.
south_america: There is a high percentage of Mestizos that vary greatly in composition by place.
south_america: The Muisca were the main indigenous civilization in what is now Colombia.
south_america: Paraguay stands out today in hydroelectric production thanks to the Itaipu Power Plant.
south_america: In addition, there is a reputed Pan-American Highway, which crosses Argentina and the Andean countries from north to south, although various stretches are unfinished.
south_america: The conflict was mainly between those who defended the centralization of power in Buenos Aires and those who defended a confederation.
south_america: In 2016, the country was the 2nd largest producer of pulp and the 8th largest producer of paper.
south_america: In 1825, the Cisplatine Province declared its independence from the Empire of Brazil, which led to the Cisplatine War between the imperials and the Argentine from the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata to control the region.
south_america: At the beginning of the war, the Paraguayans took the lead with several victories, until the Triple Alliance organized to repel the invaders and fight effectively.
south_america: The region partially moved away from agriculture and began to achieve high rates of economic growth that remained until the early 1990s, when they slowed due to political instabilities and economic crises.
south_america: This new political organization, known as Union of South American Nations, seeks to establish free movement of people, economic development, a common defense policy and the elimination of tariffs.
south_america: Descendants of indigenous peoples, such as the Quechua and Aymara, or the Urarina of Amazonia, make up the majority of the population in Bolivia (56%) and Peru (44%).
south_america: Venezuela was the 21st largest, with 877 thousand barrels / day and Colombia in 22nd with 886 thousand.
south_america: Important factors in the determination of climates are sea currents such as the Humboldt Current and Falkland Current.
south_america: African descendant and Indigenous religions are common throughout South America; some examples are Santo Daime, Candomblé, and Umbanda.
south_america: Later in 1932 Colombia and Peru entered a short armed conflict for territory in the Amazon.
south_america: Starting with the election of Hugo Chávez in Venezuela in 1998, the region experienced a pink tide – the election of several leftist and center-left administrations in most countries, except the Guianas and Colombia.
south_america: Revolutionary movements and right-wing military dictatorships became common after World War II, but since the 1980s, a wave of democratization passed through the continent, and democratic rule is widespread now.
south_america: The two most important highways in the country are BR-101 and BR-116.
south_america: The first edition was held in La Paz in 1978 and the most recent took place in Santiago in 2014.
south_america: Between 1941 and 1942 Peru and Ecuador fought for territories claimed by both that were annexed by Peru, usurping Ecuador's frontier with Brazil.
south_america: The Argentine rail network, with 47,000 km (29,000 mi) of tracks, at one stage was one of the largest in the world and continues to be the most extensive in Latin America.
south_america: As Venezuela and Ecuador consume little oil and export most of their production, they are part of OPEC.
south_america: In 1879 the war began with Chilean troops occupying Bolivian ports, followed by Bolivia declaring war on Chile which activated an alliance treaty with Peru.
south_america: The main river ports are Zárate and Campana.
south_america: In the new century, as wars became less violent and less frequent, Brazil entered into a small conflict with Bolivia for the possession of the Acre, which was acquired by Brazil in 1902.
south_america: In the Andes, navigation possibilities are limited, except for the Magdalena River, Lake Titicaca and the lakes of the southern regions of Chile and Argentina.
south_america: Peace was signed with Peru in 1883 while a truce was signed with Bolivia in 1884.
south_america: On the other hand, the continent presents regions of high population density, such as the great urban centers.
south_america: In Venezuela, according to the census, 42% of the population is of primarily Spanish, Italian or Portuguese descendence.
south_america: The economic gap between rich and poor in most South American nations is larger than most other continents.
south_america: Nearly 40% of all African slaves trafficked to the Americas went to Brazil.
south_america: Peru has important ports in Callao, Chancay, Ilo and Matarani.
south_america: In the beginning of 2020, in the production of oil and natural gas, Brazil exceeded 4 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, for the first time.
south_america: South America has shown good signs of economic stability, with controlled inflation and exchange rates, continuous growth, a decrease in social inequality and unemployment – factors that favor industry.
south_america: It remains the second largest operating hydroelectric power generation capacity in the world.
south_america: This has led for calls to diversify production and increase trade within South America itself.
south_america: North Region has large hydroelectric plants, such as Belo Monte Dam and Tucuruí Dam, which produce much of the national energy.
south_america: Despite the Portuguese loyalties of garrisons in Bahia, Cisplatina and Pará, independence was diplomatically accepted by Portugal in 1825, on condition of a high compensation paid by Brazil mediated by the United Kingdom.
south_america: The east-central Brazilian plateau has a humid and warm tropical climate.
south_america: In terms of gemstones, Brazil is the world's largest producer of amethyst, topaz, agate and one of the main producers of tourmaline, emerald, aquamarine, garnet and opal.
south_america: Transnational companies have settled in the Amazon rainforest to exploit timber destined for export.
south_america: At the same time, the political instability in Uruguay led to the Uruguayan Civil War among the main political factions of the country.
south_america: From around 13,000 years ago, the Fishtail projectile point style became widespread across South America, with its disappearance around 11,000 years ago coincident with the disappearance of South America's megafauna.
south_america: Between the Maracaibo Lake and the mouth of the Orinoco, that also includes parts of the Brazilian territory, an equatorial climate typical of the Congolese regions in Central Africa predominates.
south_america: Argentina has important international airports such as Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Bariloche, Mendoza, Salta, Puerto Iguazú, Neuquén and Usuhaia, among others.
south_america: In 1851, the Brazilian Empire, supporting the centralizing unitarians, and the Uruguayan government invaded Argentina and deposed the caudillo, Juan Manuel Rosas, who ruled the confederation with an iron hand.
south_america: The geography of western South America is dominated by the Andes mountains; in contrast, the eastern part contains both highland regions and vast lowlands where rivers such as the Amazon, Orinoco and Paraná flow.
south_america: Practically the only route that existed was the one that connected Brazil to Buenos Aires, (in Argentina) and later to Santiago, (in Chile).
south_america: In 2018, Argentina was the fourth largest producer of beef in the world, with a production of 3 million tonnes (behind only the United States, Brazil and China).
south_america: In 2019, the country was the 8th largest producer of vehicles and the 9th largest producer of steel in the world.
south_america: Geopolitically, all the island countries and territories in the Caribbean have generally been grouped as a subregion of North America instead.
south_america: Brazil has the third-largest manufacturing sector in the Americas.
south_america: Some democratically elected governments of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Uruguay and Paraguay were overthrown or displaced by military dictatorships in the 1960s and 1970s.
south_america: 51% of South America's land surface is covered by forest.
south_america: Text taken from Global Forest Resources Assessment 2025​, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
south_america: South America had the highest annual deforestation rate in 2015–2025 of any region (4.22 million ha), however this was a reduction of almost 50% from the rate in the region in 1990–2000 (8.24 million ha).
south_america: This angered the Paraguayan government, which even before the end of the war invaded Brazil, beginning the longest and bloodiest inter-state war in Latin American history: the Paraguayan War.
south_america: Crypto-Jews or Marranos, conversos, and Anusim were an important part of colonial life in Latin America.
south_america: The main industries are: electronics, textiles, food, automotive, metallurgy, aviation, naval, clothing, beverage, steel, tobacco, timber, chemical, among others.
south_america: At the highest points of the Andean region, climates are colder than the ones occurring at the highest point of the Norwegian fjords.
south_america: Colombia has important international airports such as Bogotá, Medellín, Cartagena, Cali and Barranquilla, among others.
south_america: The railway and fluvial sector, although having more robust contemporary potential, are still somewhat treated in a secondary way.
south_america: Colombia has about 3,500 km (2,200 mi) of railways.
south_america: The European Peninsular War (1807–14), a theater of the Napoleonic Wars, changed the political situation of the Spanish and Portuguese colonies.
south_america: The others are the Greater Rio, Greater Belo Horizonte and Greater Porto Alegre.
south_america: The Caribbean South America ABC islands (Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao) and Trinidad and Tobago are geologically located on the South-American continental shelf, and thus may be considered part of South America as well.
south_america: In most of the tropical region east of the Andes, winds blowing from the northeast, east and southeast carry moisture from the Atlantic, causing abundant rainfall.
south_america: In the Orinoco Llanos and in the Guianas Plateau, the precipitation levels go from moderate to high.
south_america: Brazil is the largest country in South America, covering a little less than half of the continent's land area and encompassing around half of the continent's population.
south_america: Brazil and Argentina are part of the G20 industrial countries, while only Brazil is part of the G8+5 (the most powerful and influential nations in the world).
south_america: Most of the world's major climate zones are present in South America.
south_america: Five of the top ten metropolitan areas are in Brazil.
south_america: There is a population of about 5 million Asians, mostly East Asians, especially in Brazil, Peru, and Argentina.
south_america: In Colombia, the sub-Saharan African genetic background varied 1% to 89%, while the European genetic background varied from 20 to 79%, depending on the region.
south_america: It became a Dutch colony in 1667.
south_america: Recently, an intergovernmental entity has been formed which aims to merge the two existing customs unions: Mercosur and the Andean Community, thus forming the third-largest trade bloc in the world.
south_america: In recent decades, Brazil has also generated half of the continent's GDP and has become the continent's first regional power.
south_america: Industries in South America significantly developed from the 1930s, when the Great Depression in the United States and elsewhere, boosted industrial production on the continent.
south_america: The continent is generally delimited on the northwest by the Darién watershed along the Colombia–Panama border, although some may consider the border instead to be the Panama Canal.
south_america: In 2021, Brazil was the 14th country in the world in terms of installed solar power (13 GW), and the 11th largest producer of solar energy in the world (16.8 TWh).
south_america: Many native artworks were considered pagan idols and destroyed by Spanish explorers; this included many gold and silver sculptures and other artifacts found in South America, which were melted down before their transport to Spain or Portugal.
south_america: These competing colonial nations claimed the land and resources as their own and divided it into colonies.
south_america: Also in the twentieth century, Suriname was established as a constituent kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Guyana retained the British monarch as head of state for 4 years after its independence.
south_america: The slave trade brought enslaved Africans primarily to South American colonies, beginning with the Portuguese since 1502.
south_america: French Guiana is a French overseas department, while the Falkland Islands and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands are British overseas territories.
south_america: Most of the countries' borders who had initially accepted the 1810 borders on the uti possidetis iuris principle had by 1848 either been altered by war or were contested.
south_america: While the world average wind production capacity factors is 24.7%, there are areas in Northern Brazil, specially in Bahia State, where some wind farms record average capacity factors of over 60%; the average capacity factor in the Northeast Region is 45% in the coast and 49% in the interior.
south_america: In 2019, solar power represented 1.27% of the energy generated in the country.
south_america: Dutch is the official language of Suriname; English is the official language of Guyana, although there are at least twelve other languages spoken in the country, including Portuguese, Chinese, Hindustani and several native languages.
south_america: Colombia also has four megaregions which comprise 72% of its population, followed by Venezuela, Argentina and Peru which are also homes of megaregions.
south_america: In Peru, European descendants are the third group in number (15%).
south_america: In 2013, the Southeast Region used about 50% of the load of the National Integrated System (SIN), being the main energy consuming region in the country.
south_america: In the late 20th century, Spanish rock emerged by young hipsters influenced by British pop and American rock.
south_america: Known as Tawantin suyu, and "the land of the four regions", in Quechua, the Inca Empire was highly distinct and developed.
south_america: South America is one of the most biodiverse continents on Earth.
south_america: The country has the second largest number of airports in the world, behind only the United States.
south_america: It is basically used for transporting ores.
south_america: In 2016 Brazil hosted the 2016 Summer Olympics.
south_america: Genetic admixture occurs at high levels in South America.
south_america: There are more than 2,000 airports in Brazil.
south_america: In 1917 Brazil declared war on the Central Powers, joined the allied side in the First World War and sent a small fleet to the Mediterranean Sea and some troops to be integrated with the British and French forces in the region.
south_america: Production manages to supply the country's demand.
south_america: In 2020, the country was the 20th largest petroleum producer in the world, and in 2015 it was the 19th largest exporter.
south_america: In Brazil, water transport is still underutilised: the most important waterway stretches, from an economic point of view, are found in the Southeast and South of the country.
south_america: Whilst the majority of the largest metropolitan areas are within Brazil, Argentina is host to the second largest metropolitan area by population in South America: the Buenos Aires metropolitan region, with a population in excess of 13 million.
south_america: In 1750, the Portuguese Crown abolished the enslavement of indigenous peoples in colonial Brazil, under the belief that they were unfit for labor and less effective than enslaved Africans.
south_america: The Juntas, in both Spain and the Americas, promoted the ideas of the Enlightenment.
south_america: In the production of oil, Brazil was the 10th largest oil producer in the world in 2019, with 2.8 million barrels / day.
south_america: The treaty established an imaginary line along a north–south meridian 370 leagues (approximately 1,110 mi (1,790 km)) west of the Cape Verde Islands, roughly 46° 37' W.
south_america: The nuclear power generation monopoly is owned by Eletronuclear (Eletrobrás Eletronuclear S/A), a wholly owned subsidiary of Eletrobrás.
south_america: In Peru, Depending on the region, Peruvian regions can range from 10-20% (central) to 40-50% (north) of European ancestry.
south_america: A multi-sport event, the South American Games, are held every four years.
south_america: In spite of the "Republic" in its title, General Ramírez, its caudillo, never really intended to declare an independent Entre Rios.
south_america: The Atacama Desert, along this stretch of coast, is one of the driest regions in the world.
south_america: Brazil declined to acknowledge a formal state of war, and, for most of its duration, the Uruguayan–Brazilian armed conflict was an undeclared war which led to the deposition of the Blancos and the rise of the pro-Brazilian Colorados to power again.
south_america: Rio de Janeiro installed the continent's first railroad in 1854.
south_america: Its full use still requires the construction of locks, major dredging works and the development of ports that allow intermodal integration.
south_america: In 1865 the three countries signed the Treaty of the Triple Alliance against Paraguay.
south_america: Soon after, another Brazilian province proclaimed its independence leading to the Ragamuffin War which Brazil won.
south_america: For natural gas, in 2018, Argentina produced 1524 bcf (billion cubic feet), Venezuela 946, Brazil 877, Bolivia 617, Peru 451, Colombia 379.
south_america: Guyana and Suriname have the largest ethnic East Indian community.
south_america: South America is a continent entirely in the Western Hemisphere and mostly in the Southern Hemisphere, with a considerably smaller portion in the Northern Hemisphere.
south_america: Suriname was first explored by the Spanish in the 16th century and then settled by the English in the mid-17th century.
south_america: This was the second total war experience in the world after the American Civil War.
south_america: In the Portuguese Kingdom of Brazil, Dom Pedro I (also Pedro IV of Portugal), son of the Portuguese King Dom João VI, proclaimed the independent Kingdom of Brazil in 1822, which later became the Empire of Brazil.
south_america: Its population as of 2021 has been estimated at more than 434 million.
south_america: Although the Platine War did not put an end to the political chaos and civil war in Argentina, it brought temporary peace to Uruguay where the Colorados faction won, supported by Brazil, Britain, France and the Unitarian Party of Argentina.
south_america: In 2019, Brazil was the 4th largest pork producer in the world, with almost 4 million tonnes.
south_america: Hydroelectric generation represented 58% of the region's installed capacity, with the remaining 42% coming mostly from thermoelectric generation.
south_america: Chavín civilization spanned 900 BC to 300 BC.
south_america: In 1864, after a Brazilian ultimatum was refused, the imperial government declared that Brazil's military would begin reprisals.
south_america: The last South American war in the 19th century was the War of the Pacific with Bolivia and Peru on one side and Chile on the other.
south_america: In the footwear industry, in 2019, Brazil ranked 4th among world producers.
south_america: Some South American nations have nationalized their electricity industries.
south_america: After Brazil, Colombia is the country in South America that most stands out in energy production.
south_america: For his part, the Venezuelan Carlos Cruz-Diez has contributed significantly to contemporary art, with the presence of works around the world.
south_america: The moderately dry conditions of the Chaco oppose the intense rainfall of the eastern region of Paraguay.
south_america: A brief war was fought between Argentina and the UK in 1982, following an Argentine invasion of the Falkland Islands, which ended with an Argentine defeat.
south_america: In 2021 Brazil ranked 7th in the world in terms of installed wind power capacity (21 GW), and the 4th largest producer of wind energy in the world (72 TWh), behind only China, United States and Germany.
south_america: Five South American nations have hosted the tournament including the first edition in Uruguay (1930).
south_america: In Colombia, people who identify as from European descendants are about 20%.
south_america: Venezuela had a big drop in production after 2015 (where it produced 2.5 million barrels / day), falling in 2018 to 1.4 million and in 2019 to 877 thousand, due to lack of investment.
south_america: Most of the continent lies in the tropics, except for a large part of the Southern Cone located in the middle latitudes.
south_america: There are still uncontacted tribes residing in the Amazon Rainforest.
south_america: In Tierra del Fuego a cold climate persists that is commonly referred to as a "Siberian type" climate.
south_america: Korean Confucianism is especially found in Brazil, while Chinese Buddhism and Chinese Confucianism have spread throughout the continent.
south_america: It is currently the only inhabited continent in the world without monarchies; the Empire of Brazil existed during the 19th century and there was an unsuccessful attempt to establish a Kingdom of Araucanía and Patagonia in southern Argentina and Chile.
south_america: In 1982, Argentina invaded the Falkland Islands, a British dependent territory.
south_america: Traditionally, the countries producing sugar for export are Peru, Guyana and Suriname, and in Brazil, sugar cane is also used to make ethanol.
south_america: In Brazil, an express bus system called Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), which operates in several cities, has been developed.
south_america: Hindus form 25% of the Guyanese population and 22% of Suriname's.
south_america: Many were goldsmiths and farmers.
south_america: Inca rule extended to nearly a hundred linguistic or ethnic communities, some nine to fourteen million people connected by a 25,000 kilometer road system.
south_america: Most of the population lives near the continent's western or eastern coasts while the interior and the far south are sparsely populated.
south_america: Argentina has more than 600,000 km (370,000 mi) of roads, of which about 70,000 km (43,000 mi) are paved, and about 2,500 km (1,600 mi) are divided highways.
south_america: Chile has about 82,000 km (51,000 mi) of roads, 20,000 km (12,000 mi) of which are paved, and about 2,000 km (1,200 mi) are divided highways.
south_america: German is also spoken in many regions of the southern states of Brazil, Riograndenser Hunsrückisch being the most widely spoken German dialect in the country; among other Germanic dialects, a Brazilian form of East Pomeranian is also well represented and is experiencing a revival.
south_america: São Paulo International Airport, located in the Metropolitan Region of São Paulo, is the largest and busiest in the country – the airport connects São Paulo to practically all major cities around the world.
south_america: The Pacific coast of Colombia and northern Ecuador are rainy regions, with Chocó in Colombia being the rainiest place in the world along with the northern slopes of Indian Himalayas.
south_america: Mi Teleférico, also known as Teleférico La Paz–El Alto (La Paz–El Alto Cable Car), is an aerial cable car urban transit system serving the La Paz–El Alto metropolitan area in Bolivia.
south_america: In the beginning of 2020, in the production of oil and natural gas, the country exceeded 4 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, for the first time.
south_america: Chile has important ports in Valparaíso, Caldera, Mejillones, Antofagasta, Iquique, Arica and Puerto Montt.
south_america: Mestizos (mixed European and Amerindian) are the largest ethnic group in Peru, Paraguay, Venezuela, Colombia and Ecuador and the second group in Bolivia , Chile and Argentina.
south_america: In the production of gold, among 2006 and 2017, the country produced 15 tonnes (15 long tons; 17 short tons) per year until 2007, when its production increased significantly, breaking a record of 66.1 tonnes (65.1 long tons; 72.9 short tons) extracted in 2012.
south_america: Holding their capital at the great city of Cusco, the Inca civilization dominated the Andes region from 1438 to 1533.
south_america: In 2017, it extracted 52.2 tonnes (51.4 long tons; 57.5 short tons).
south_america: It consists of two pressurized water reactors, Angra I, with capacity of 657 MW, connected to the power grid in 1982, and Angra II, with capacity of 1,350 MW, connected in 2000.
south_america: The Brazilian government has undertaken an ambitious program to reduce dependence on imported petroleum.
south_america: Bahia, Brazil, is especially well known for its West African–influenced cuisine, while São Paulo's cuisine is a mix of caipira and European's cuisine, especially the Italian.
south_america: Today the city has a diversified system of metropolitan trains, integrated with buses and subway.
south_america: Pisco is a liquor distilled from grapes in Peru and Chile.
south_america: The importation of African slaves began midway through the 16th century, but the enslavement of indigenous peoples continued well into the 17th and 18th centuries.
south_america: The Blancos supported by Paraguay started to attack Brazilian and Argentine farmers near the borders.
south_america: In cow's milk, Argentina ranks among the 20 largest producers.
south_america: Other important airports are those in the capitals of Uruguay (Montevideo), Paraguay (Asunción), Peru (Lima), Bolivia (La Paz) and Ecuador (Quito).
south_america: Some of the most famous genres include vallenato and cumbia from Colombia, pasillo from Colombia and Ecuador, samba, bossa nova and música sertaneja from Brazil, joropo from Venezuela and tango from Argentina and Uruguay.
south_america: In the Andean plateaus, the warm climate prevails, although it is tempered by the altitude, while in the coastal strip, there is an equatorial climate commonly classified as a "Guinean type" climate.
south_america: It was deemed the greatest war effort in the history of all participating countries, taking almost 6 years and ending with the complete devastation of Paraguay.
south_america: Nuclear energy accounts for about 4% of Brazil's electricity.
south_america: As of July 2022, according to ONS, total installed capacity of wind power was 22 GW, with average capacity factor of 58%.
south_america: However, the export of agricultural products is essential for the balance of trade in most countries.
south_america: Brazil and Argentina are the only South American countries that generate nuclear power, each with two nuclear power plants.
south_america: One of the earliest known South American civilizations was Caral–Supe, on the central Peruvian coast.
south_america: The Empire made an initial attempt to settle the dispute between Blancos and Colorados without success.
south_america: The Pacific coastal waters are the most important for commercial fishing.
south_america: Brazil has 44 international airports, such as those in Rio de Janeiro, Brasília, Belo Horizonte, Porto Alegre, Florianópolis, Cuiabá, Salvador, Recife, Fortaleza, Belém and Manaus, among others.
south_america: In 2019, it was estimated that the country had an estimated wind power generation potential of around 522 GW (this, only onshore), enough energy to meet three times the country's current demand.
south_america: The top ten largest South American metropolitan areas by population as of 2015, based on national censuses:
south_america: It can also be described as the southern subregion of the Americas.
south_america: It was also the third largest world producer of milk in 2018, 35 billion liters.
south_america: Also well known is the non-commercial folk genre Nueva Canción movement which was founded in Argentina and Chile and quickly spread to the rest of the Latin America.
south_america: South American Cricket Championship is an international one-day cricket tournament played since 1995 featuring national teams from South America and certain other invited sides including teams from North America, currently played annually but until 2013 was usually played every two seasons.
south_america: The country also stands out in hydroelectricity, where it was the 14th country in the world in terms of installed capacity in 2020 (16,5 GW).
south_america: During this period it can be said that "there were two Argentines": the Argentine Confederation and the Argentine Republic.
south_america: Argentina has ports such as Port of Buenos Aires and Port of Rosario.
south_america: After independence, all South American countries maintained slavery for some time.
south_america: A third reactor, Angra III, with a projected output of 1,350 MW, is planned to be finished.
south_america: South America's major mineral resources are gold, silver, copper, iron ore, tin, and petroleum.
south_america: Irrigation is an important factor for agriculture from northwestern Peru to Patagonia.
south_america: The last international war to be fought on South American soil was the 1995 Cenepa War between Ecuador and Peru along their mutual border.
south_america: The central and southern parts of Chile are subject to extratropical cyclones, and most of the Argentine Patagonia is desert.
south_america: East Asian religions such as Japanese Buddhism, Shintoism, and Shinto-derived Japanese New Religions are common in Brazil and Peru.
south_america: In 1825, the proclamation of independence of Cisplatina led to the Cisplatine War between historical rivals the Empire of Brazil and the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata, Argentina's predecessor.
south_america: At one point, the Argentine government was spending a fifth of its entire yearly budget for just two dreadnoughts, a price that did not include later in-service costs, which for the Brazilian dreadnoughts was sixty percent of the initial purchase.
south_america: Brazil was a constitutional monarchy for its first 67 years of independence, until a coup d'état proclaimed a republic.
south_america: In 2019, wind energy represented 9% of the energy generated in the country.
south_america: Almost all of mainland South America sits on the South American Plate.
south_america: Artifacts were found at a site called Chavín de Huantar in modern Peru at an elevation of 3,177 meters (10,423 ft).
south_america: South America is thought to have been first inhabited by humans when people were crossing the Bering Land Bridge (now the Bering Strait) at least 15,000 years ago from the territory that is present-day Russia.
south_america: South America is bordered on the west by the Pacific Ocean, on the north and east by the Atlantic Ocean, and on the south by the Drake Passage; North America, the Caribbean Sea lying to the northwest, and the Antarctic Circle, Antarctica, and the Antarctic Peninsula to the south.
south_america: Three years later, the United Kingdom intervened in the question by proclaiming a tie and creating in the former Cisplatina a new independent country: The Oriental Republic of Uruguay.
south_america: In 2019, Bolivia was the 8th largest world producer of silver; 4th largest world producer of boron; 5th largest world producer of antimony; 5th largest world producer of tin; 6th largest world producer of tungsten; 7th largest producer of zinc, and the 8th largest producer of lead.
south_america: The remaining countries and territories are divided among four subregions: the Andean states, Caribbean South America, The Guianas, and the Southern Cone.
south_america: South America has a population of over 428 million people.
south_america: In the same year Paraguay declared war on Bolivia for possession of the Chaco, in a conflict that ended three years later with Paraguay's victory.
south_america: The literature of South America has attracted considerable critical and popular acclaim, especially with the Latin American Boom of the 1960s and 1970s, and the rise of authors such as Mario Vargas Llosa, Gabriel García Márquez in novels and Jorge Luis Borges and Pablo Neruda in other genres.
south_america: Many cities in the Spanish colonies, however, considered themselves equally authorized to appoint local Juntas like those of Spain.
south_america: Paraguay was virtually destroyed by Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay in the Paraguayan War.
south_america: It came to have about 100,000 km (62,000 mi) of rails, but the lifting of tracks and the emphasis placed on motor transport gradually reduced it.
south_america: However, in recent years, with the combined effort of countries, new routes have started to emerge, such as Brazil-Peru (Interoceanic Highway), and a new highway between Brazil, Paraguay, northern Argentina and northern Chile (Bioceanic Corridor).
south_america: They are distributed as to form a "hollow continent" with most of the population concentrated around the margins of the continent.
south_america: Brazil is the world's largest exporter of chicken meat: 3.8 million tonnes in 2019.
south_america: South America ranks fourth in area (after Asia, Africa, and North America) and fifth in population (after Asia, Africa, Europe, and North America).
south_america: Amongst the oldest evidence for human presence in South America is the Monte Verde II site in Chile, suggested to date to around 14,500 years ago.
south_america: Meanwhile, the Argentine Civil Wars plagued Argentina since its independence.
south_america: This began the Spanish American wars of independence between the patriots, who promoted such autonomy, and the royalists, who supported Spanish authority over the Americas.
south_america: This was illustrated by Argentina's default in the early 21st century.
south_america: The "country" was reincorporated at the United Provinces in 1821.
south_america: In Argentina, the waterway network is made up of the La Plata, Paraná, Paraguay and Uruguay rivers.
south_america: Many cities have a diverse transport system of metro and subway trains, the first of which was the Buenos Aires subte, opened 1913.
south_america: Guyana was initially colonized by the Dutch before coming under British control, though there was a brief period during the Napoleonic Wars when it was occupied by the French.
south_america: People who identify as of primarily or totally European descent, or identify their phenotype as corresponding to such group, are a majority in Uruguay, Argentina and Chile (64.7%), and are 43.5% of the population in Brazil.
south_america: In the central and western regions of Bolivia, Andean and folklore music like Diablada, Caporales and Morenada are the most representative of the country, which were originated by European, Aymara and Quechua influences.
south_america: Lima has the largest ethnic Chinese community in Latin America.
south_america: Accounting for 29 percent of GDP, Brazil's industries range from automobiles, steel, and petrochemicals to computers, aircraft (Embraer), food, pharmaceutical, footwear, metallurgy and consumer durables.
south_america: The main agrarian crops are export crops, such as soy and wheat.
south_america: Because of South America's broad ethnic mix, South American cuisine has African, Mestizo, South Asian, East Asian, and European influences.
south_america: English is also spoken in the Falkland Islands.
south_america: These countries alone account for more than 80% of the region's economy.
