speed_skating: However, the record stood for 17 years, and it took over 50 years to lower it by further half a minute.
speed_skating: Norwegian clubs hosted competitions from 1863, with races in Christiania drawing five-digit crowds.
speed_skating: The event was introduced at international level at the world junior championships around the turn of the millennium, and to the World Cup in 2003, but it was not considered an official ISU event until around 2004, and eventually introduced at the Olympics in 2006.
speed_skating: Skaters must change lanes every lap.
speed_skating: In the Olympic Games, long-track speed skating is usually referred to as just "speed skating", while short-track speed skating is known as "short track".
speed_skating: There are top international rinks in a number of other countries, including Canada, the United States, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, Kazakhstan, China, Belarus and Poland.
speed_skating: After a while, national teams took over development of bodysuits, which are also used in short track skating, though without headcover attached to the suit—short trackers wear helmets instead, as falls are more common in mass-start races.
speed_skating: Finally, the referee waits for a random duration between 1 and 1.5 seconds, and then fires the starting shot.
speed_skating: In long track speed skating, almost any infringement on the pairmate is punished, though skaters are permitted to change from the inner to the outer lane out of the final curve if they are not able to hold the inner curve, as long as they are not interfering with the other skater.
speed_skating: Similar speed increases are shown in the other distances.
speed_skating: It was iron-bladed skates that led to the spread of skating and, in particular, speed skating.
speed_skating: The Elfstedentocht has been held 15 times in the nearly 100 years since 1909, and, before artificial ice was available in 1962, national championships had been held in 25 of the years between 1887, when the first championship was held in Slikkerveer, and 1961.
speed_skating: However, the ISU adopted the short track speed skating branch, with mass-start races on shorter tracks, in 1967, arranged international competitions from 1976, and brought them back to the Olympics in 1992.
speed_skating: – Sport regulations, regulations of inline speed skating
International Skating Union
speed_skating: In 1992, short track speed skating was accepted as an Olympic sport.
speed_skating: While in the Netherlands, people began touring the waterways connecting the 11 cities of Friesland, a challenge which eventually led to the Elfstedentocht.
speed_skating: The Norwegian publication Sportsboken spent ten pages detailing the long track speed skating events at the Albertville Games in 1993, but short track was not mentioned by word, though the results pages appeared in that section.
speed_skating: Short track races are almost always run in a mass start format in which two to six skaters may race at once.
speed_skating: The team pursuit is a team event in speed skating and is skated by teams of three skaters.
speed_skating: The heel of the boot detaches from the blade on every stroke, through a spring mechanism located at the front connector.
speed_skating: The Nederlandse Schaatsrijderbond was founded in 1882 and organised the world championships of 1890 and 1891.
speed_skating: ISU rules allow some leeway in the size and radius of curves.
speed_skating: By the start of the 20th century, skating and speed skating had come into its own as a major popular sporting activity.
speed_skating: Events are usually held with a knockout format, with the best two in heats of four or five qualifying for the final race, where medals are awarded.
speed_skating: Races usually have rules about disqualification if an opponent is unfairly hindered; these rules vary between the disciplines.
speed_skating: There are several formats for the team pursuit.
speed_skating: Peter Sinnerud was disqualified for professionalism in 1904 and lost his world title.
speed_skating: Like roller skating, ice speed skating was also professional in North America.
speed_skating: Short track: All short track skaters must have speed skates, a spandex skin suit, protective helmet, specific cut proof skating gloves, knee pads and shin pads (in suit), neck guard (bib style) and ankle protection.
speed_skating: Norwegian and Finnish skaters won all the gold medals in world championships between the world wars, with Latvians and Austrians visiting the podium in the European Championships.
speed_skating: Unlike other events, skaters in mass start can use the entire track, minor physical contact is tolerated, and there is no re-race option.
speed_skating: The suit also does not need to be Kevlar.
speed_skating: A World Cup circuit is held with events in those countries plus two events in the Thialf ice hall in Heerenveen, Netherlands.
speed_skating: Oval sizes vary; in short track speed skating, the rink must be an oval of 111.12 metres, while long track speed skating uses a similarly standardized 400 m rink.
speed_skating: Some argue that this inherent timing variability could disadvantage athletes that start after longer pauses, due to the alerting effect.
speed_skating: Protective eyewear is not mandatory.
speed_skating: Inline skating can also be held on closed road courses between 400 and 1,000 metres, as well as open-road competitions where starting and finishing lines do not coincide.
speed_skating: The Elfstedentocht was organized as a competition in 1909 and has been held at irregular intervals, whenever the ice on the course is deemed good enough.
speed_skating: Many skaters wear smooth ceramic or carbon fiber tips on the left hand glove to reduce friction when their hand is on the ice at corners.
speed_skating: In mass-start races, skaters will usually be allowed some physical contact.
speed_skating: (2002), ISBN 1-58000-087-8
Barry Publow: Speed on Skates, Human Kinetics Publishers – Champaign, Ill.
speed_skating: If a skater misses their race or falls they have the option to race their distance again.
speed_skating: The blades range in length from 30–45 centimetres (12–18 in) depending on the age and height of the skater.
speed_skating: Canada won five medals, all silver and bronze, while defending World Champion Clas Thunberg stayed at home, protesting against this form of racing.
speed_skating: Long track world records were first registered in imperial distances and since 1880 in metrical distances.
speed_skating: In Norway speed skating also became popular, as there was a huge interest in the 1885 speed skating race at Frognerkilen between Axel Paulsen and Renke van der Zee.
speed_skating: Long track: For long track skaters, the same equipment should be worn as short track racers but with the exception of a helmet, shin pads, knee pads, and neck guard which are not required; along with their blades.
speed_skating: Skate sharpening: To sharpen their skates, skaters must place their skates on a jig and move diamond or stone stones back and forth.
speed_skating: Inline skating rinks are between 125 and 400 metres, though banked tracks can only be 250 metres long.
speed_skating: First, the referee tells the athletes to "Go to the start".
speed_skating: Skaters are disqualified for impeding when one skater cuts in front of another skater and causes the first skater to stand up to avoid collision or fall.
speed_skating: However, World War I put an end to the plans of Olympic competition, and it was not until the winter sports week in Chamonix in 1924—retroactively awarded Olympic status—that ice speed skating reached the Olympic programme.
speed_skating: Finland won the remaining four gold medals at the 1924 Games, with Clas Thunberg winning 1,500 metres, 5,000 metres, and allround.
speed_skating: The International Skating Union (ISU), the governing body of competitive ice sports, refers to long track as "speed skating" and short track as "short track skating".
speed_skating: However, skating and speed skating was not limited to the Netherlands and Scandinavia; in 1592, a Scotsman designed a skate with an iron blade.
speed_skating: There are no heats or finals in long track; all rankings are by time.
speed_skating: The clock stops when the third skater crosses the finish line.
speed_skating: The Olympic format is unusual in that it is a cup format, with several rounds of exclusion between two teams.
speed_skating: In the regulations of roller sports, eight different types of mass starts are described.
speed_skating: Other outdoor races developed later, with Friesland in the northern Netherlands hosting a race in 1917, but the Dutch natural ice conditions have rarely been conducive to skating.
speed_skating: The Netherlands came back to the fore in 1889 with the organization of the first world championships.
speed_skating: Later, roller derby leagues appeared, a professional contact sport that originally was a form of racing.
speed_skating: Chicago was a centre of ice speed skating in America; the Chicago Tribune sponsored a competition called the Silver Skates from 1912 to 2014.
speed_skating: Long track speed skating takes place on a 400 m ice track, while short track takes place on a 111 m track.
speed_skating: (1999), ISBN 0-88011-721-4
Matthias Opatz: Taschenfibel Eisschnelllauf (Pocketguide Speedskating), Lotok Publ.
speed_skating: Skaters may be disqualified for false starts, impeding, and cutting inside the track.
speed_skating: Short track blades are fixed to the boot in at the heel and immediately behind the ball of the foot.
speed_skating: Organized races on ice skates developed in the 19th century.
speed_skating: Distances are shorter than in long-track racing, with the longest Olympic individual race being 1500 meters (the women's relay is 3000 meters and the men's relay 5000 meters).
speed_skating: The ISU approved the suggestion that the speed skating at the 1932 Winter Olympics should be held as pack-style races, and Americans won all four gold medals.
speed_skating: – Stedten-upon-Ilm, Germany (2005), ISBN 3-939088-00-5
speed_skating: It was the first and only time an allround Olympic gold medal has been awarded in speed skating.
speed_skating: The diamond stones will have different colors that will be assigned to them depending on how much they eat into the blade; black as the one that affects the blades the most, and gold as the one that affects the least.
speed_skating: Professional World Championships were arranged in North America between the competitors on that circuit.
speed_skating: These blades have hinges under the boot towards the back.
speed_skating: The Internationale Eislauf Vereinigung, now known as the International Skating Union, was founded at a meeting of 15 national representatives in Scheveningen in 1892, the first international winter sports federation.
speed_skating: The standard rink for long track is 400 meters long, but tracks of 200, 250 and 3331⁄3 meters are used occasionally.
speed_skating: Long track skaters wear a hood that is built into the suit.
speed_skating: Speed Skating is also a sport in today's Olympics.
speed_skating: Roller-skating races were professional from an early stage.
speed_skating: False starts occur when a skater moves before the gun goes off at the start of a race.
speed_skating: In almost all individual competition forms, only two skaters are allowed to race at once.
speed_skating: Protective eyewear is mandatory.
speed_skating: All skaters who race at a national level must wear a cutproof Kevlar suit to protect against being cut from another skater's blade.
speed_skating: Another solution to still be able to skate marathons on natural ice became the Alternative Elfstedentocht.
speed_skating: Disqualifications and falls are not uncommon.
speed_skating: Suits and indoor skating, as well as the clap skate, has helped to lower long track world records considerably; from 1971 to 2009, the average speed on the men's 1500 metres has been raised from 45 to 52 km/h.
speed_skating: Only the inner lane is used.
speed_skating: In practice, the distance is so short that this rarely happens unless one team has a fall.
speed_skating: FIRS World Championships of inline speed skating go back to the 1980s, but many world champions, such as Derek Parra and Chad Hedrick, have switched to ice in order to win Olympic medals.
speed_skating: It is one of two Olympic forms of the sport and the one with the longer history.
speed_skating: At the World Championships held immediately after the games, without the American champions, Norwegian racers won all four distances and occupied the three top spots in the allround standings.
speed_skating: Second, the referee cues the athletes to get "Ready", and waits until the skaters have stopped moving.
speed_skating: One team starts on each side of the track.
speed_skating: In the Olympic format, a team that overtakes the other has automatically won the race and the remaining distance is not skated.
speed_skating: The team pursuit is a new event in major international competitions.
speed_skating: This is what is now known as long track speed skating.
speed_skating: According to the NRC Handelsblad journalist Jaap Bloembergen, the country "takes a carnival look" during international skating championships.
speed_skating: The exception to this is the mass start event, in which all skaters (usually 16; maximum of 24) start and race together.
speed_skating: Short-track speed skating takes place on a smaller rink, normally the size of an ice hockey rink, on a 111.12 m oval track.
speed_skating: The origins of speed skating date back over a millennium in the North of Europe, especially Scandinavia and the Netherlands, where the natives added bones to their shoes and used them to travel on frozen rivers, canals and lakes.
speed_skating: Competitions were exclusively for amateur skaters, which was enforced.
speed_skating: In 1884, the Norwegian Axel Paulsen was named Amateur Champion Skater of the World after winning competitions in the United States.
speed_skating: The Alternative Elfstedentocht races take part in other countries, such as Austria, Finland or Canada, and all top marathon skaters, as well as thousands of recreative skaters, travel from the Netherlands to the location where the race is held.
speed_skating: By 1851, North Americans had discovered a love of the sport, and the all-steel blade was later developed there.
speed_skating: In the Netherlands, marathon competitions may be held on natural ice on canals, and bodies of water such as lakes and rivers, but may also be held on artificially frozen 400 m tracks, with skaters circling the track 100 times, for example.
speed_skating: The skater changing from the outside lane to the inside has right-of-way.
speed_skating: An international federation was founded in 1892, the first for any winter sport.
speed_skating: The distance is eight laps for men and six for women.
speed_skating: The winner was Trijntje Pieters Westra, a twenty-year-old farmer's daughter from Poppingawier.
speed_skating: There are variations on the mass-start races.
speed_skating: The ISU (International Skating Union) was also born in the Netherlands in 1892.
speed_skating: In the World Cup and World Championships, one race is skated and the teams are ranked by their finishing time.
speed_skating: This extends the skater's stroke by keeping the blade on the ice longer.
speed_skating: Among them are elimination races, where one or more competitors are eliminated at fixed points during the course; simple distance races, which may include preliminary races; endurance races with time limits instead of a fixed distance; points races; and individual pursuits.
speed_skating: It is described in more detail above.
speed_skating: Later, in Norway, King Eystein Magnusson, later King Eystein I of Norway, boasts of his skills racing on bone skates, so called "ice legs".
speed_skating: Roller Sports C.
speed_skating: Speed skates are manually sharpened using a jig to hold them in place.
speed_skating: Norwegians, Swedes, Finns, and Japanese skating leaders protested to the USOC, condemning the manner of competition and expressing the wish that mass-start races were never to be held again at the Olympics.
speed_skating: Unlike hockey skates and figure skates, speed skates cut off at the ankle and are built more like a shoe than a boot to allow for more ankle compression.
speed_skating: This is also a feature of outdoor marathons.
speed_skating: Long track skates, also called clap skates, attach to a hinge at the front of the boot.
speed_skating: Two teams race at a time, starting at a line in the middle of the straightaway.
speed_skating: The sport enjoys large popularity in the Netherlands, Norway and South Korea.
speed_skating: Long track skaters skate on what are called "clap blades".
speed_skating: However, North American races were usually conducted pack-style, similar to the marathon races in the Netherlands, but the Olympic races were to be held over the four ISU-approved distances.
speed_skating: The starting procedure in long-track speed skating consists of three parts.
speed_skating: The latter ones improved rapidly since their adoption as standard distances by the ISU, with Jaap Eden lowering the world 5000-metre record by half a minute during the Hamar European Championships in 1894.
speed_skating: 1960 also saw the first Winter Olympic competitions for women.
speed_skating: Types of speed skating are long-track speed skating, short-track speed skating, and marathon speed skating.
speed_skating: More aerodynamic skating suits were also developed, with Swiss skater Franz Krienbühl (who finished 8th on the Olympic 10,000 m at the age of 46) at the front of development.
speed_skating: In the only non-individual competition form, the team pursuit, two teams of each three to four skaters are allowed to race at once.
speed_skating: Charles Jewtraw from Lake Placid, New York, won the first Olympic gold medal, though several Norwegians in attendance claimed Oskar Olsen had clocked a better time.
speed_skating: Most speed skating races are held on an oval course, but there are exceptions.
speed_skating: Five years later, a sports club in Amsterdam held an ice-skating event they called a world championship, with participants from Russia, the United States and the United Kingdom, as well as the host country.
speed_skating: The team's time is the third skater to cross the finish line.
speed_skating: If disqualified the skater will be given last place in their heat or final.
speed_skating: If four skaters are racing one skater is allowed to drop off and stop racing.
speed_skating: The first known speed skating competition for women was in Heerenveen, the Netherlands from 1 to 2 February 1805.
speed_skating: By 1642, the first known skating club, The Skating Club of Edinburgh, was born, and, in 1763, the first speed skating race known in any detail was held from Wisbech to Whittlesey on the Fens in England for a prize sum of 20 guineas, won by John Lamb of Wisbech.
speed_skating: Since artificial ice became common in the Netherlands, Dutch speed skaters have been among the world top in long track ice skating and marathon skating.
speed_skating: Timing issues on the 500 were a problem within the sport until electronic clocks arrived in the 1960s; during the 1936 Olympic 500–metre race, it was suggested that Ivar Ballangrud's 500-metre time was almost a second too good.
speed_skating: Although this form of speed skating is newer, it is growing faster than long-track speed skating, largely because short track can be done on an ice hockey rink rather than a long-track oval.
speed_skating: Lidia Skoblikova won two gold medals in 1960 and four in 1964.
speed_skating: Oscar Mathisen, five-time ISU world champion and three-time European champion, renounced his amateur status in 1916 and travelled to America, where he won many races but was beaten by Bobby McLean of Chicago, four-time American champion, in one of the races.
speed_skating: Races resemble the team pursuit event in track cycling.
speed_skating: Speed skating is a competitive form of ice skating in which the competitors race each other in travelling a certain distance on skates.
speed_skating: At the 1914 Olympic Congress, the delegates agreed to include ice speed skating in the 1916 Olympics, after figure skating had featured in the 1908 Olympics.
speed_skating: Team races are also held; in long track speed skating, the only team race at the highest level of competition is the team pursuit, though athletics-style relay races are held at children's competitions.
speed_skating: Cutting inside the track occurs when a skater's skates goes inside the blocks which mark the track on the ice.
speed_skating: Jonny Nilsson, 1963 world champion and Olympic gold medallist, was the driving force behind the league, which folded in 1974 for economic reasons, and the ISU also excluded tracks hosting professional races from future international championships.
speed_skating: Artificial ices entered the long track competitions with the 1960 Winter Olympics, and the competitions in 1956 on Lake Misurina were the last Olympic competitions on natural ice.
speed_skating: Relay races are also held in short track and inline competitions, but here exchanges may take place at any time during the race, though exchanges may be banned during the last couple of laps.
speed_skating: Skaters started in pairs, each to their own lane, and changed lanes for every lap to ensure that each skater completed the same distance.
speed_skating: Both teams remain in the inner lane for the duration of the race; they start on opposite sides of the rink.
speed_skating: 130 women competed in a knockout-style competition on a frozen canal in front of a crowd that reportedly numbered 10,000 or more.
