stoicism: Delight (hēdonē): Delight is an irrational swelling, or a fresh opinion that something good is present, at which people think it right to be elated.
stoicism: Stoicism is a philosophical movement and practical guide to living, emphasizing daily self-discipline and moral improvement, which originated in the Hellenistic period of ancient Greece and proliferated well into the Roman Imperial period.
stoicism: Although developments in modern logic that parallel Stoic logic began in the middle of the 19th century with the work of George Boole and Augustus De Morgan, Stoic logic itself was only reappraised in the 20th-century, beginning with the work of Polish logician Jan Łukasiewicz and Benson Mates.
stoicism: ISBN 9780191597091.
stoicism: [u.a.] ISBN 9782735101474.
stoicism: It was two dialecticians of this school, Diodorus Cronus and his pupil Philo, who developed their own theories of modalities and of conditional propositions.
stoicism: He justified this by arguing that they should be interpreted strictly as expressions, rather than as metaphysical realities.
stoicism: (1993–1994).
stoicism: "Stoic Philosophy of Mind".
stoicism: Over time, the Stoic school developed through several generations of philosophers and spread widely across the Hellenistic and Roman worlds.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0-8153-1829-3.
stoicism: Fear (phobos): Fear is an irrational aversion, or avoidance of an expected danger.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0-8245-0764-0.
stoicism: Fieser, James; Dowden, Bradley (eds.).
stoicism: Propositional logic was redeveloped by Peter Abelard in the 12th century, but by the mid-15th century the only logic which was being studied was a simplified version of Aristotle's.
stoicism: Lust (epithumia): Lust is an irrational desire, or pursuit of an expected good but in reality bad.
stoicism: They held that there were four categories:
stoicism: At the same time, passions, anxieties, and insecurities are viewed as misguided reactions that ought to be controlled through self-disciplined practice.
stoicism: From Epicurus to Epictetus: Studies in Hellenistic and Roman Philosophy.
stoicism: However, this name was soon dropped, probably because the Stoics did not consider their founders to be perfectly wise and to avoid the risk of the philosophy becoming a cult of personality.
stoicism: There can be many variations of these five indemonstrable arguments.
stoicism: Inwood, Brad (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to the Stoics, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0521779855
Irwin, Terence, ed.
stoicism: Thus, they accepted Anaxagoras's idea (as did Aristotle) that if an object is hot, it is because some part of a universal heat body had entered the object.
stoicism: Cambridge: Cambridge Univ.
stoicism: London: Athlone Press.
stoicism: Neostoicism was a philosophical movement that arose in the late 16th century from the works of the Renaissance humanist Justus Lipsius, who sought to combine the beliefs of Stoicism and Christianity.
stoicism: (7 August 2014).
stoicism: Stoicism does not posit a beginning or end to the Universe.
stoicism: Since then, it has seen revivals, notably in the Renaissance (Neostoicism) and in the contemporary era.
stoicism: Hadot, Pierre (3 August 1995).
stoicism: In more general terms this argument would be: "If p, then q; p; Therefore q."
stoicism: The Stoics catalogued these simple assertibles according to whether they are affirmative or negative, and whether they are definite or indefinite (or both).
stoicism: Chrysippus's logic differed from term logic because it was based on the analysis of propositions rather than terms.
stoicism: Aristotle and After.
stoicism: Ancient Philosophies (1st ed.).
stoicism: The work of Guillaume du Vair, Traité de la Constance (1594), was another important influence in the neo-stoic movement.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0-631-18033-3.
stoicism: Bloomsbury Academic.
stoicism: Distress: Envy, Rivalry, Jealousy, Compassion, Anxiety, Mourning, Sadness, Troubling, Grief, Lamenting, Depression, Vexation, Despondency.
stoicism: Leiden; New York: E.J.
stoicism: Compound assertibles can be built up from simple ones through the use of logical connectives, which examine choice and consequence such as "if ...
stoicism: Both encourage equanimity with respect to the passions and inferior emotions, such as lust and envy, so that the higher possibilities of one's humanity can be awakened and developed.
stoicism: The Stoics held that an understanding of ethics was impossible without logic.
stoicism: One paradox studied by Chrysippus, known as the Liar paradox, asked "A man says he is lying; is what he says true or false?"—if the man says something true then it seems he is lying, but if he is lying then he is not saying something true, and so on.
stoicism: The logic of Chrysippus was discussed alongside that of Aristotle, and it may well have been more prominent since Stoicism was the dominant philosophical school.
stoicism: Diodorus had defined possibility in a way which seemed to adopt a form of fatalism.
stoicism: Along with Aristotelian term logic, the system of propositional logic developed by the Stoics was one of the two great systems of logic in the classical world.
stoicism: The revival of modern stoicism has also been promoted by authors including Ryan Holiday, whose works have contributed to the popularization of stoic philosophy among modern readers.
stoicism: Besides the existing beings, they admitted four incorporeals (asomata): time, place, void, and sayable.
stoicism: The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy's entry on Stoicism notes: "the sense of the English adjective 'stoical' is not utterly misleading with regard to its philosophical origins".
stoicism: In mastering these paradoxes, the Stoics hoped to cultivate their rational powers, to more easily enable ethical reflection, permit secure and confident arguing, and lead themselves to truth.
stoicism: logic has not been able to advance a single step, and is thus to all appearance a closed and complete body of doctrine." To 19th-century historians, who believed that Hellenistic philosophy represented a decline from that of Plato and Aristotle, Stoic logic was seen with contempt.
stoicism: ISBN 9789607670014.
stoicism: Sihvola, J.; Engberg-Pedersen, T., eds.
stoicism: Athens: Internat.
stoicism: "Stoicism".
stoicism: A.; Sedley, D.
stoicism: Because of this, the Stoics thought the best indication of an individual's philosophy was not what a person said but how the person behaved.
stoicism: The Stoics also referred to the seminal reason ("logos spermatikos"), or the law of generation in the Universe, which was the principle of the active reason working in inanimate matter.
stoicism: Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2020 ed.).
stoicism: ISSN 2161-0002.
stoicism: Central to Stoic ethics was the idea of living in accordance with nature, which meant aligning one's life with one's sense of reason and the rational order of the universe.
stoicism: Contemporary usage defines a stoic as a "person who represses feelings or endures patiently".
stoicism: Scholars usually divide the history of Stoicism into three phases: the Early Stoa, from Zeno's founding to Antipater; the Middle Stoa, including Panaetius and Posidonius; and the Late Stoa, including Musonius Rufus, Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius.
stoicism: In the words of Inwood, the Stoics believed that:
stoicism: But he was not a logical determinist or fatalist: he wanted to distinguish between possible and necessary truths.
stoicism: Stoics, Epicureans and Sceptics: An Introduction to Hellenistic Philosophy.
stoicism: A typical Stoic syllogism is: "If it is day, it is light; It is day; Therefore it is light".
stoicism: Instead, the sage experiences good feelings (eupatheia) which are clear-headed.
stoicism: Stoic influence can also be seen in the works of Ambrose of Milan, Marcus Minucius Felix, and Tertullian.
stoicism: Stoicism and Emotion.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0-521-40048-0.
stoicism: Stoic ethics involves improving the individual's ethical and moral well-being: "Virtue consists in a will that is in agreement with Nature." The foundation of Stoic ethics is that good lies in the state of the soul itself, in wisdom and self-control.
stoicism: Hadot, Pierre (1998).
stoicism: Unlike the Epicureans, Zeno chose to teach his philosophy in a public space.
stoicism: Center for Greek Philosophy and Culture and K.B.
stoicism: Brooke, Christopher.
stoicism: God and Cosmos in Stoicism.
stoicism: (2009), The Therapy of Desire: Theory and Practice in Hellenistic Ethics, Princeton University Press, ISBN 978-0-691-14131-2
O'Toole, Robert R.; Jennings, Raymond E.
stoicism: The Emotions in Hellenistic Philosophy.
stoicism: Joy: Enjoyment, Cheerfulness, Good spirits
Wish: Good intent, Goodwill, Welcoming, Cherishing, Love
Caution: Moral shame, Reverence
stoicism: Volume 1 – Fragments of Zeno and his followers
Volume 2 – Logical and physical fragments of Chrysippus
Volume 3 – Ethical fragments of Chrysippus and some fragments of his pupils
Volume 4 – Indices of words, proper names and sources
stoicism: Of all the schools of ancient Western philosophy, Stoicism made the greatest claim to being utterly systematic.
stoicism: The Stoic tradition from antiquity to the early Middle Ages.
stoicism: ISBN 9780199261307.
stoicism: Delight: Malice, Rapture, and Ostentation.
stoicism: Schofield, Malcolm; Striker, Gisela, eds.
stoicism: Bulloch, Anthony W.
stoicism: In the early 21st century, a modern Stoicism movement emerged, promoting the practical application of Stoic philosophy in everyday life through academic research, public conferences, and educational initiatives.
stoicism: Contemporary interest in Stoicism has also been promoted by modern philosophers such as Massimo Pigliucci, whose writings and public lectures have helped popularize Stoic philosophy for modern audiences.
stoicism: Stoic ethics centers on virtue as the highest good, cultivating emotional self-control, a calm problem-solving state of mind, and rational judgment to attain lifelong flourishing (eudaimonia).
stoicism: Stoicism became the foremost popular philosophy among the educated elite in the Hellenistic world and the Roman Empire to the point where, in the words of Gilbert Murray, "nearly all the successors of Alexander [...] professed themselves Stoics".
stoicism: Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
stoicism: Retrieved 21 May 2025.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: publisher location (link)
Long, A.
stoicism: ISBN 9781844655670.
stoicism: (2001), "Dialectic and the Stoic Sage", Stoic Studies, University of California Press, ISBN 0-520-22974-6
Mates, Benson (1953), Stoic Logic, University of California Press
Nussbaum, Martha C.
stoicism: Colish, Marcia L.
stoicism: This principle also applies to the realm of interpersonal relationships; "to be free from anger, envy, and jealousy", and even to accept slaves as equals of others because all are products of nature.
stoicism: A typical conditional takes the form of "if p then q"; whereas a conjunction takes the form of "both p and q"; and a disjunction takes the form of "either p or q".
stoicism: Pott, Young, & Co.
stoicism: Hadot, Pierre (2002), What is Ancient Philosophy?, Harvard University Press, ISBN 0-674-00733-6
Hurley, Patrick J.
stoicism: the assertible "it is night" will only be true at night).
stoicism: Retrieved 13 January 2023.
stoicism: At first, the work consisted of three volumes, to which Maximilian Adler in 1924 added a fourth, containing general indices.
stoicism: of California Press.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0-521-47641-6.
stoicism: Pierre Charron came to a neo-stoic position through the impact of the French Wars of Religion.
stoicism: For the Stoics, logic (logike) was the part of philosophy which examined reason (logos).
stoicism: The Philosophy of Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy: Stoicism as Rational and Cognitive Psychotherapy.
stoicism: (2004), "The Megarians and the Stoics", in Gabbay, Dov M.; Woods, John (eds.), Handbook of the History of Logic, vol.
stoicism: No complete works survived from the first two phases of Stoicism.
stoicism: Stoicism was founded in the ancient Agora of Athens by Zeno of Citium around 300 BCE, and flourished throughout the Greco-Roman world until the 3rd century CE.
stoicism: These emotional impulses are not excessive, but nor are they diminished emotions.
stoicism: The approach can be justified, at least in part, by Aristotle's own words in The Categories.
stoicism: Rist, John M., ed.
stoicism: 1, Elsevier, ISBN 0-444-51596-8
Robertson, Donald (2010).
stoicism: Among its adherents was Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius.
stoicism: ISBN 9780226740065.
stoicism: ISBN 9780199556144.
stoicism: Problems in Stoicism.
stoicism: Stoicism experienced a decline after Christianity became the state religion in the 4th century CE, although Gnosticism lingered and incorporated elements of Stoicism and Platonism.
stoicism: Zeno's most influential successor was Chrysippus, who followed Cleanthes as leader of the school, and was responsible for molding what is now called Stoicism.
stoicism: Determinism and freedom in Stoic philosophy.
stoicism: Carl Prantl thought that Stoic logic was "dullness, triviality, and scholastic quibbling" and he welcomed the fact that the works of Chrysippus were no longer extant.
stoicism: Atoms, pneuma, and tranquillity: Epicurean and Stoic themes in European thought.
stoicism: He made a complete separation of morality and religion.
stoicism: The project of neostoicism has been described as an attempt by Lipsius to construct "a secular ethics based on Roman Stoic philosophy." He did not endorse religious toleration in an unqualified way: hence the importance of a morality not tied to religion.
stoicism: Diodorus defined possible as "that which either is or will be true".
stoicism: Stoicism at Encyclopedia Britannica
stoicism: 411, modified):
stoicism: Long in 1971.
stoicism: The mind can judge (συγκατάθεσις, synkatathesis)—approve or reject—an impression, enabling it to distinguish a true representation of reality from one that is false.
stoicism: Berkeley: Univ.
stoicism: Chrysippus's set of Stoic modal definitions was as follows:
stoicism: Graver, Margaret (2007).
stoicism: Lust: Anger, Rage, Hatred, Enmity, Wrath, Greed, and Longing.
stoicism: They were held to be just 'subsisting' while such a status was denied to universals.
stoicism: Everything is subject to the laws of Fate, for the Universe acts according to its own nature, and the nature of the passive matter it governs.
stoicism: Philosophia Togata I: Essays on Philosophy and Roman Society.
stoicism: Stoic philosophy is traditionally divided into three interconnected disciplines: logic, physics, and ethics.
stoicism: Sellars, John (18 January 2018).
stoicism: Stoic logic focuses on highly intentional reasoning through propositions, arguments, and the differentiation between truth and falsehood.
stoicism: These three ideals constitute virtue, which is necessary for the Stoic goal of 'living a well-reasoned life'.
stoicism: The Stoic idea of the city (Repr ed.).
stoicism: Philosophy as a Way of Life: Spiritual Exercises from Socrates to Foucault.
stoicism: Stoic Theology: Proofs for the Existence of the Cosmic God and of the Traditional Gods : Including a Commentary on Cleanthes' Hymn on Zeus.
stoicism: Later generations built on Boole's insights ...
stoicism: Its influence extended to Roman thinkers like Seneca and Epictetus and later influenced Christianity and the Renaissance Neostoicism movement.
stoicism: ISBN 9780198150855.
stoicism: Archived from the original on 28 March 2023.
stoicism: Harvard University Press.
stoicism: Retrieved 21 May 2025.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: publisher location (link)
Bobzien, Susanne (1998).
stoicism: Stoicism shaped subsequent developments in logic and inspired modern cognitive therapies.
stoicism: Striker, Gisela (13 June 1996).
stoicism: For example, Plutarch reports that accepting life under tyranny would have compromised Cato's self-consistency (constantia) as a Stoic and impaired his freedom to make the honorable moral choices.
stoicism: Certainty and true knowledge (episteme), achievable by the Stoic sage, can be attained only by verifying the conviction with the expertise of one's peers and the collective judgment of humankind.
stoicism: From a modern perspective, Aristotle's term logic and the Stoic logic of propositions appear complementary, but they were sometimes regarded as rival systems.
stoicism: It was largely built and shaped by Chrysippus, the third head of the Stoic school in the 3rd century BCE.
stoicism: Philosophic Pride: Stoicism and Political Thought from Lipsius to Rousseau (Princeton UP, 2012) excerpts Archived 29 April 2014 at the Wayback Machine
Capes, William Wolfe (1880).
stoicism: New York : Crossroad.
stoicism: Stoicism was originally known as Zenonism.
stoicism: (2003), "Stoic Natural Philosophy (Physics and Cosmology)", in Inwood, Brad (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to the Stoics, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0521779855
stoicism: ISBN 978-0-7156-1238-5.
stoicism: The Stoics identified the path to achieving it with a life spent practicing the four cardinal virtues in everyday life — prudence, fortitude, temperance, and justice — as well as living in accordance with nature.
stoicism: The Stoic tradition of logic originated in the 4th-century BCE in a different school of philosophy known as the Megarian school.
stoicism: Of these four themata, only two have survived.
stoicism: To the Stoics, logic was a wide field of knowledge which included the study of language, grammar, rhetoric and epistemology.
stoicism: Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
stoicism: ISBN 0-520-03135-0.
stoicism: Distress (lupē): Distress is an irrational contraction, or a fresh opinion that something bad is present, at which people think it right to be depressed.
stoicism: Another, known as the Sorites paradox or "Heap", asked "How many grains of wheat do you need before you get a heap?" It was said to challenge the idea of true or false by offering up the possibility of vagueness.
stoicism: but the logic that made it all possible was the interconnected logic of an interconnected universe, discovered by the ancient Chrysippus, who labored long ago under an old Athenian stoa.
stoicism: Long, A A (1971).
stoicism: Incorrect judgment as to a present good gives rise to delight, while lust is a wrong estimate about the future.
stoicism: The Stoics are especially known for teaching that "virtue is the only good" for human beings, and that external things, such as health, wealth, and pleasure, are not good or bad in themselves (adiaphora) but have value as "material for virtue to act upon".
stoicism: Beck et al.
stoicism: Hellenistic Philosophy: Stoics, Epicureans, Sceptics.
stoicism: Plotinus had criticized both Aristotle's Categories and those of the Stoics; his student Porphyry, however, defended Aristotle's scheme.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0-674-46171-0.
stoicism: The Stoics believed that the practice of virtue is enough to achieve eudaimonia: a well-lived life.
stoicism: Logic helps a person see what is the case, reason effectively about practical affairs, stand his or her ground amid confusion, differentiate the certain from the probable, and so forth.
stoicism: ISBN 0485111187.
stoicism: Examples include the terms "logos", "virtue", "Spirit", and "conscience".
stoicism: Unreal imaginings of evil cause distress about the present, or fear for the future.
stoicism: Archived from the original on 8 July 2023.
stoicism: The Hellenistic Philosophers.
stoicism: The passive substance is matter itself, while the active substance is an intelligent aether or primordial fire, which acts on the passive matter, the logos or anima mundi pervading and animating the entire Universe.
stoicism: Stoicism emerged from the Cynic tradition and was popularized through public teaching at the Stoa Poikile, a painted colonnade.
stoicism: London: Karnac.
stoicism: Examples of assertibles include "it is night", "it is raining this afternoon", and "no one is walking." Assertibles have a truth-value such that they are only true or false depending on when it was expressed (e.g.
stoicism: Retrieved 21 May 2025.
stoicism: Epictetus, in his Discourses, distinguished between three types of act: judgment, desire, and inclination, which Hadot identifies these three acts with logic, physics, and ethics, respectively.
stoicism: The Stoic school remained influential for several centuries, from the late fourth century BCE until late antiquity.
stoicism: ISBN 978-90-5972-202-6.
stoicism: Salles, Ricardo, ed.
stoicism: Thus, if an object is red, it would be because some part of a universal red body had entered the object.
stoicism: Miriam Griffin; Jonathan Barnes, eds.
stoicism: OCLC 37741658.
stoicism: The Stoics arranged the passions under four headings: distress, pleasure, fear, and lust.
stoicism: Only Roman texts from the Late Stoa survived.
stoicism: New York and London: Routledge.
stoicism: Hellenistic Philosophy of Mind.
stoicism: Classical philosophy : collected papers.
stoicism: What we see as a result is a close similarity between [these] methods of reasoning and the behaviour of digital computers.
stoicism: "Stoic Ethics".
stoicism: University of California Press.
stoicism: According to philosopher Pierre Hadot, philosophy for a Stoic is not just a set of beliefs or ethical claims; it is a way of life involving constant practice and training (or "askēsis"), an active process of constant practice and self-reminder.
stoicism: Stoicism: Traditions and Transformations.
stoicism: Thus, there are no forever unrealised possibilities, whatever is possible is or one day will be true.
stoicism: The Stoics listed the good-feelings under the headings of joy (chara), wish (boulesis), and caution (eulabeia).
stoicism: The Stoic ethic espouses a deterministic perspective; in regard to those who lack Stoic virtue, Cleanthes once opined that the wicked person is "like a dog tied to a cart, and compelled to go wherever it goes".
stoicism: The Stoics.
stoicism: Hicks, Robert Drew (1911).
stoicism: For around five hundred years, Stoic logic was one of the two great systems of logic.
stoicism: Classical Mediterranean spirituality : Egyptian, Greek, Roman.
stoicism: Zeno's ideas developed from those of the Cynics (brought to him by Crates of Thebes), whose founding father, Antisthenes, had been a disciple of Socrates.
stoicism: Topics in Stoic Philosophy.
stoicism: In this, the Stoics were building on an earlier Megarian debate initiated by Diodorus Cronus.
stoicism: (31 December 2010).
stoicism: Osler, Margaret J., ed.
stoicism: ISBN 0198237685.
stoicism: A passion is a disturbing and misleading force in the mind which occurs because of a failure to reason correctly.
stoicism: Sharples, R.
stoicism: ISBN 9789004093300.
stoicism: As a result the Stoic writings on logic did not survive, and only elements of Stoic logic made their way into the logical writings Boethius and other later commentators, transmitting confused parts of Stoic logic to the Middle Ages.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0-521-18164-8.
stoicism: The logical writings by Chrysippus are, however, almost entirely lost, instead his system has to be reconstructed from the partial and incomplete accounts preserved in the works of later authors.
stoicism: Knowledge about Stoic logic as a system was lost until the 20th century, when logicians familiar with the modern propositional calculus reappraised the ancient accounts of it.
stoicism: "Free will and divine providence".
stoicism: However, the outstanding figure in the development of Stoic logic was Chrysippus of Soli (c.
stoicism: Chrysippus, on the other hand, was a causal determinist: he thought that true causes inevitably give rise to their effects and that all things arise in this way.
stoicism: According to the Stoics, knowledge can be attained through the application of reason to the impressions (phantasiai) received by the mind through the senses.
stoicism: However, all of these fields were interrelated, and the Stoics developed their logic (or "dialectic") within the context of their theory of language and epistemology.
stoicism: It includes the fragments and testimonia of Zeno of Citium, Chrysippus and their immediate followers.
stoicism: (9 March 2013).
stoicism: or", and "not both".
stoicism: ISBN 978-1-134-83640-6.
stoicism: But, unlike Aristotle, they extended the idea to cover all chance incidents.
stoicism: One report of the Stoic definitions of these passions appears in the treatise On Passions by Chrysippus (trans.
stoicism: Eburon Uitgeverij B.V.
stoicism: Thus, he took a middle position between Diodorus and Philo, combining elements of both their modal systems.
stoicism: Oxford: Clarendon Press.
stoicism: Oxford: Clarendon.
stoicism: One notable initiative associated with this revival is Stoic Week, an annual international event that encourages participants to practice Stoic exercises and reflect on Stoic principles in daily life.
stoicism: In Zalta, Edward N.
stoicism: For example the assertibles in the premises can be more complex, and the following syllogism is a valid example of the second indemonstrable (modus tollens): "if both p and q, then r; not r; therefore not: both p and q" Similarly one can incorporate negation into these arguments.
stoicism: ISBN 978-94-015-9082-2.
stoicism: Hadot writes that in the Meditations, "Each maxim develops either one of these very characteristic topoi [i.e., acts], or two of them or three of them."
stoicism: The code happens to come from the nineteenth-century logician and mathematician George Boole, whose aim was to codify the relations studied much earlier by Chrysippus (albeit with greater abstraction and sophistication).
stoicism: Hellenistic philosophy.
stoicism: The Stoics also believed that certain destructive emotions resulted from errors of judgment, and people should aim to maintain a will (called prohairesis) that is "in accordance with nature".
stoicism: Cambridge University Press.
stoicism: The Art of Living: The Stoics on the Nature and Function of Philosophy.
stoicism: The current Universe is a phase in the present cycle, preceded by an infinite number of Universes, doomed to be destroyed ("Ekpyrosis", conflagration) and re-created again, and to be followed by another infinite number of Universes.
stoicism: Like Stoicism, Christianity asserts an inner freedom in the face of the external world, a belief in human kinship with Nature or God, a sense of the innate depravity—or "persistent evil"—of humankind, and the futility and temporary nature of worldly possessions and attachments.
stoicism: (1996), Stoic Studies, University of California Press, ISBN 0520229746
Long, A.
stoicism: 206 BCE), the third head of the Stoic school.
stoicism: Images and ideologies: self-definition in the Hellenistic world.
stoicism: The Philosophy of Early Christianity.
stoicism: The or they used is exclusive, unlike the inclusive or generally used in modern formal logic.
stoicism: Alongside Aristotle's ethics, the Stoic tradition forms one of the major founding approaches to virtue ethics.
stoicism: Sellars, John (2006), Ancient Philosophies: Stoicism, Acumen, ISBN 978-1-84465-053-8
Shenefelt, Michael; White, Heidi (2013), If A, Then B: How Logic Shaped the World, Columbia University Press, ISBN 978-0-231-53519-9
Sharples, Robert W.
stoicism: There would be nothing to fear—for unreason is the only evil; no cause for anger—for others cannot harm you.
stoicism: His pupil Philo, rejecting this, defined possible as "that which is capable of being true by the proposition's own nature", thus a statement like "this piece of wood can burn" is possible, even if it spent its entire existence on the bottom of the ocean.
stoicism: Boudouris, K.J., ed.
stoicism: ISBN 9780520075269.
stoicism: (1999), The Cambridge History of Hellenistic Philosophy, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0-521-25028-5
Armstrong, A.H., ed.
stoicism: The Inner Citadel: The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius.
stoicism: The founder of Stoicism, Zeno of Citium, studied under the Megarians, and he was said to have been a fellow pupil with Philo.
stoicism: Thus if something is present which is a genuine good, then the wise person experiences an uplift in the soul—joy (chara).
stoicism: Later Roman Stoics placed greater emphasis on practical ethics and the cultivation of inner moral discipline in everyday life.
stoicism: Where Lipsius had mainly based his work on the writings of Seneca, du Vair emphasized Epictetus.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0-900587-79-5.
stoicism: According to Susanne Bobzien, "The many close similarities between Chrysippus' philosophical logic and that of Gottlob Frege are especially striking".
stoicism: Contemporary Stoicism draws from the late 20th- and early 21st-century spike in publications of scholarly works on ancient Stoicism.
stoicism: The wise person (sophos) is someone who is free from the passions (apatheia or impassivity).
stoicism: The norms of nature: studies in Hellenistic ethics.
stoicism: A valid example of the fourth indemonstrable (strong modus tollendo ponens or exclusive disjunctive syllogism) is: "either [not p] or q; not [not p]; therefore q" which, incorporating the principle of double negation, is equivalent to: "either [not p] or q; p; therefore q."
stoicism: According to the Stoics, the Universe is a material reasoning substance (logos), which was divided into two classes: the active and the passive.
stoicism: Sorabji, Richard, ed.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0226305578.
stoicism: Many Stoics —such as Seneca and Epictetus — emphasized that because "virtue is sufficient for happiness", a sage would be emotionally resilient to misfortune.
stoicism: Some impressions can be assented to immediately, but others can achieve only varying degrees of hesitant approval, which can be labeled belief or opinion (doxa).
stoicism: Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
stoicism: ISBN 978-1-351-77274-7.
stoicism: The Stoics used the word to discuss many common emotions such as anger, fear and excessive joy.
stoicism: To be free of the passions is to have happiness which is self-contained.
stoicism: OCLC 1240350.
stoicism: These connectives are combined with the use of not for negation.
stoicism: Retrieved 27 January 2016.
stoicism: Boethius' acceptance of Porphyry's interpretation led to their being accepted by Scholastic philosophy.
stoicism: For the Stoics, reason meant using logic and understanding the processes of nature—the logos or universal reason, inherent in all things, as a means of overcoming destructive emotions.
stoicism: Institute of Classical Studies, School of Advanced Study, University of London.
stoicism: ISSN 1095-5054.
stoicism: Schofield, Malcolm (1999).
stoicism: It has a non-simple assertible for the first premise ("If it is day, it is light") and a simple assertible for the second premise ("It is day").
stoicism: states, "The philosophical origins of cognitive therapy can be traced back to the Stoic philosophers".
stoicism: The ancient Stoics believed that the universe operated according to reason, or logos, providing a unified account of the world, constructed from ideals of rational discourse, monistic physics, and naturalistic ethics.
stoicism: It is only through reason that people gain clear comprehension and conviction (katalepsis).
stoicism: Teubner reprinted the whole work in 1964.
stoicism: In addition to describing which inferences are valid ones, part of a Stoic's logical training was the enumeration and refutation of false arguments, including the identification of paradoxes, which represented a challenge to the basic logical notions of the Stoics, such as truth or falsehood.
stoicism: Ierodiakonou, Katerina, ed.
stoicism: Fear: Sluggishness, Shame, Fright, Timidity, Consternation, Pusillanimity, Bewilderment, and Faintheartedness.
stoicism: New York : Garland.
stoicism: Philosophical discourse is paramount in Stoicism, including the view that the mind is in rational dialogue with itself.
stoicism: Essays on Hellenistic Epistemology and Ethics.
stoicism: ISBN 978-0520076594.
stoicism: ISBN 978-1855757561.
stoicism: To achieve a happy life—a life worth living—requires logical thought.
stoicism: The revival of Stoicism in the 20th century can be traced to the publication of Problems in Stoicism by A.
stoicism: University of Chicago Press.
stoicism: It was conceived as material and is usually identified with God or Nature.
stoicism: Humans, too, each possess a portion of the divine logos, which is the primordial Fire and reason that controls and sustains the Universe.
stoicism: Thus there are just two states directed at the prospect of good and evil, but subdivided as to whether they are present or future: Numerous subdivisions of the same class were brought under the head of the separate passions:
stoicism: Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
stoicism: Oxford University Press.
stoicism: The ideal Stoic would instead measure things at their real value, and see that the passions are not natural.
stoicism: Chrysippus seems to have been responsible for introducing the three main types of connectives: the conditional (if), conjunctive (and), and disjunctive (or).
stoicism: In the 2nd-century BCE, Antipater of Tarsus is said to have introduced a simpler method involving the use of fewer themata, although few details survive concerning this.
stoicism: Instead they are the correct rational emotions.
stoicism: Metaphysics, soul, and ethics in ancient thought: themes from the work of Richard Sorabji.
stoicism: "Ancient Logic".
stoicism: The Stoics also subdivided the good-feelings:
stoicism: Strange, Steven K.; Zupko, Jack, eds.
stoicism: The Stoics outlined that people's own actions, thoughts, and reactions are within their control.
stoicism: Stoic logic also uses variables that stand for propositions to generalize arguments of the same form.
stoicism: then", "either ...
stoicism: Long & Sedley, pg.
stoicism: Chrysippus shaped much of Stoic logic as it is now known, creating a system of propositional logic.
stoicism: Two of these passions (distress and delight) refer to emotions currently present, and two of these (fear and lust) refer to emotions directed at the future.
stoicism: OCLC 429049174.
stoicism: The original cognitive therapy treatment manual for depression by Aaron T.
stoicism: Springer Science & Business Media.
