swamp: Ecologists recognize that swamps provide  ecological services including flood control, fish production, water purification, carbon storage, and wildlife habitats.
swamp: Two thirds of global fish and shellfish are commercially harvested and dependent on wetlands.
swamp: Of the total 440,000 km2 (170,000 sq mi) tropical peat swamp, about 210,000 km2 (81,000 sq mi) are located in Indonesia (Page, 2001; Wahyunto, 2006).
swamp: Both are National Wildlife Refuges.
swamp: The world's largest wetlands include significant areas of swamp, such as in the Amazon and Congo River basins.
swamp: Pripyat Marshes, Belarus
Šúr, Slovakia
Kopački rit, Croatia
swamp: Indonesia has the largest area of tropical peatland.
swamp: Another swamp area, Reelfoot Lake of extreme western Tennessee and Kentucky, was created by the 1811–12 New Madrid earthquakes.
swamp: New International Encyclopedia.
swamp: The United States government began enforcing stricter laws and management programs in the 1970s in efforts to protect and restore these ecosystems.
swamp: The two main types of swamp are "true" or swamp forests and "transitional" or shrub swamps.
swamp: They have a reputation for being unproductive land that cannot easily be used for human activities, other than hunting, trapping, or fishing.
swamp: This is one of the largest swamps in the world, covering an area larger than Switzerland.
swamp: The Great Cypress Swamp is mostly in Delaware, but extends into Maryland on the Delmarva Peninsula.
swamp: Louisiana provides a classic example of wetland loss from these combined factors.
swamp: Chemicals like phosphorus and nitrogen that end up in waterways get absorbed and used by the aquatic plants within the swamp, purifying the water.
swamp: In Southeast Asia, peatlands are mainly found in low altitude coastal and sub-coastal areas and extend inland for distance more than 100 km (60 mi) along river valleys and across watersheds.
swamp: Some swamps have hammocks, or dry-land protrusions, covered by aquatic vegetation, or vegetation that tolerates periodic inundation or soil saturation.
swamp: A baygall is a type of swamp found in the forest of the Gulf Coast states in the US.
swamp: Farmers, for example, typically drained swamps next to their fields so as to gain more land usable for planting crops, both historically, and to a lesser extent, recently.
swamp: Further north, however, the largest wetlands are bogs.
swamp: In Asia, tropical peat swamps are located in mainland East Asia and Southeast Asia.
swamp: Swamps are considered to be transition zones because both land and water play a role in creating this environment.
swamp: Wetlands are removed and replaced with land that is then used for things like agriculture, real estate, and recreational uses.
swamp: Conservationists work to preserve swamps such as those in northwest Indiana in the United States Midwest that were preserved as part of the Indiana Dunes.
swamp: They are mostly to be found on the coasts of East Sumatra, Kalimantan (Central, East, South and West Kalimantan provinces), West Papua, Papua New Guinea, Brunei, Peninsular Malaya, Sabah, Sarawak, Southeast Thailand, and the Philippines (Riley et al.,1996).
swamp: In many parts of the world authorities protect swamps.
swamp: These hydrologic pathways all contribute to how energy and nutrients flow in and out of the ecosystem.
swamp: Swamps are often associated with bayous in the southeastern United States, especially in the Gulf Coast region.
swamp: Swamps and marshes are specific types of wetlands that form along waterbodies containing rich, hydric soils.
swamp: On the other hand, floodplain swamps are an important resource in the production and distribution of fish.
swamp: The Atchafalaya Swamp at the lower end of the Mississippi River is the largest swamp in the United States.
swamp: The water that accumulates in swamps comes from a variety of sources including precipitation, groundwater, tides and freshwater flooding.
swamp: The Bangweulu Floodplains make up Africa's largest swamp.
swamp: These ditches and canals contributed to drainage and, along the coast, allowed salt water to intrude, converting swamps to marsh or even to open water.
swamp: The water of a swamp may be fresh water, brackish water, or seawater.
swamp: The Mesopotamian Marshes is a large swamp and river system in southern Iraq, traditionally inhabited in part by the Marsh Arabs.
swamp: Many swamps have also undergone intensive logging and farming, requiring the construction of drainage ditches and canals.
swamp: The Vasyugan Swamp is a large swamp in the western Siberia area of the Russian Federation.
swamp: The Okefenokee is located in extreme southeastern Georgia and extends slightly into northeastern Florida.
swamp: In such circumstances where flooding does occur, swamps absorb and use the excess water within the wetland, preventing it from traveling and flooding surrounding areas.
swamp: Often the simplest steps to restoring swamps involve plugging drainage ditches and removing levees.
swamp: In parts of Europe and North America, swamp restoration projects are becoming widespread.
swamp: Marshes are wetlands, continually or frequently flooded by nearby running bodies of water, that are dominated by emergent soft-stem vegetation and herbaceous plants.
swamp: The largest swamp in the world is the Amazon River floodplain, which is particularly significant for its large number of fish and tree species.
swamp: It is an important example of the southern cypress swamp but it has been greatly altered by logging, drainage, and levee construction.
swamp: Saltwater swamps are found along tropical and subtropical coastlines.
swamp: Swamps are wetlands consisting of saturated soils or standing water and are dominated by water-tolerant woody vegetation such as shrubs, bushes, and trees.
swamp: Other famous swamps in the United States are the forested portions of the Everglades, Okefenokee Swamp, Barley Barber Swamp, Great Cypress Swamp and the Great Dismal Swamp.
swamp: Any remaining or excess chemicals present will accumulate at the bottom of the swamp, being removed from the water and buried within the sediment.
swamp: Large areas of swamp were therefore lost or degraded.
swamp: The hydrology of a swamp is a key factor in its biogeochemical environment, which includes the levels and availability of resources like oxygen, nutrients, pH, and toxicity.
swamp: A swamp is a forested wetland.
swamp: Point Lookout State Park on the southern tip of Maryland contains many swamps and marshes.
swamp: The Great Dismal Swamp lies in extreme southeastern Virginia and extreme northeastern North Carolina.
swamp: Caddo Lake, the Great Dismal and Reelfoot are swamps centered at large lakes.
swamp: Swamps play a beneficial ecological role in the overall functions of the natural environment and provide a variety of resources that many species depend on.
swamp: Dense vegetation within the swamp also provides soil stability to the land, holding soils and sediment in place whilst preventing erosion and land loss.
swamp: Swamps are an abundant and valuable source of fresh water and oxygen for all life, and they are often breeding grounds for a wide variety of species.
swamp: In the boreal regions of Canada, the word swamp is colloquially used for what is more formally termed a bog, fen, or muskeg.
swamp: Freshwater swamps form along large rivers or lakes where they are critically dependent upon rainwater and seasonal flooding to maintain natural water level fluctuations.
swamp: Swamps vary in size and are located all around the world.
swamp: As water flows through the swamp, nutrients, sediment and pollutants are naturally filtered out.
swamp: Caribbean Lowlands, Colombia
Esteros del Iberá, Argentina
Lahuen Ñadi, Chile
Pantanal, Brazil, Bolivia and Paraguay
Paraná Delta, Argentina
swamp: Europe has likely lost nearly half its wetlands.
swamp: Some of the world's largest swamps are found along major rivers such as the Amazon, the Mississippi, and the Congo.
swamp: New Zealand lost 90 percent of its wetlands over a period of 150 years.
swamp: Swamps and other wetlands have shown to be a natural form of flood management and defense against flooding.
