table_tennis: It is nearly always done with a forehand stroke.
table_tennis: This requires precision, since the ball's spin, speed, and location all influence the correct angle of a block.
table_tennis: After the apex of the curve, the ball dips downwards as it approaches the opposing side, before bouncing.
table_tennis: As a receiver under the expedite system, completing 13 returns in a rally.
table_tennis: If the service is "good", then the receiver must make a "good" return by hitting the ball back before it bounces a second time on receiver's side of the table so that the ball passes the net and touches the opponent's court, either directly or after touching the net assembly.
table_tennis: A point is scored by the player for any of several results of the rally:
table_tennis: What identifies the stroke is that the backswing is compressed into a short wrist flick.
table_tennis: If the sequence of serving and receiving is out of turn or the ends are not changed, points scored in the wrong situation are still calculated and the game shall be resumed with the order at the score that has been reached.
table_tennis: Other strong teams come from East Asia and Europe, including Austria, Belarus, Germany, Hong Kong, Portugal, Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Sweden, and Taiwan.
table_tennis: The penhold grip is so-named because one grips the racket similarly to the way one holds a writing instrument.
table_tennis: There are also national bodies and other local authorities responsible for the sport, such as USA Table Tennis (USATT), which is the national governing body for table tennis in the United States.
table_tennis: It is not a fault if the ball accidentally hits one's hand or fingers and then subsequently hits the racket.
table_tennis: Table tennis was introduced as an Olympic sport at the Olympics in 1988.
table_tennis: The stroke itself consists of lifting the ball to an enormous height before it falls back to the opponent's side of the table.
table_tennis: 1 table tennis professional at the time, threatened to pull out of the World Cup, which was scheduled to debut the new regulation ball on 12 October 2000.
table_tennis: Such a chop can be extremely difficult to return due to its enormous amount of backspin.
table_tennis: Jean-Philippe Gatien, Wang Hao and Sun Yingsha won both the World Championships and the World Cup, but lost in the gold medal matches at the Olympics.
table_tennis: According to the ITTF regulations, at least 85% of the blade by thickness shall be of natural wood.
table_tennis: Under the expedite system, the server must win the point before the opponent makes 13 consecutive returns or the point goes to the opponent.
table_tennis: Some famous choppers include Joo Sae-hyuk and Wu Yang.
table_tennis: The opponent that has been warned by the umpire commits a second offense in the same individual match or team match.
table_tennis: Competitive table tennis is popular in East Asia and Europe, and has been gaining attention in the United States.
table_tennis: When the player on the receiving side is not ready and the service is delivered.
table_tennis: Otherwise, X is the next server and the order becomes X→A→Y→B.
table_tennis: The rate was twice as high as the next sport, basketball, which featured 15% of naturalized players.
table_tennis: ITTF Handbook 2011/2012.
table_tennis: By that time, players had begun increasing the thickness of the fast sponge layer on their paddles, which made the game excessively fast and difficult to watch on television.
table_tennis: International Table Tennis Federation (2011).
table_tennis: If the third offence happens, 2 points will be given to the player.
table_tennis: The 40 mm ball was introduced after the end of the 2000 Summer Olympics; previously a 38 mm ball was standard.
table_tennis: These were introduced to Britain by sports goods manufacturer S.W.
table_tennis: When a player hits the ball they set the paddle down, and the player behind them picks it up to receive the return.
table_tennis: The opponent obstructs the ball.
table_tennis: The racket is parallel to the direction of the stroke ("closed") and the racket thus grazes the ball, resulting in a large amount of topspin.
table_tennis: Players are equipped with a laminated wooden racket covered with rubber on one or two sides depending on the grip of the player.
table_tennis: Founded in 1926, the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) is the worldwide governing body for table tennis, which maintains an international ranking system in addition to organizing events like the World Table Tennis Championships.
table_tennis: In those early days, the scoring system was the same as in lawn tennis.
table_tennis: An official hall of fame exists at the ITTF Museum.
table_tennis: Retrieved 7 December 2021.
table_tennis: In 1883, British sporting goods company Slazenger filed a patent for a net for table tennis.
table_tennis: In order to attack a push, a player must usually loop (if the push is long) or flip (if the push is short) the ball back over the net.
table_tennis: The server must first stand with the ball resting on the open palm of the free hand (the one not holding the racket) and project it vertically upwards, imparting no spin, to a height of at least 16 cm (6.3 in).
table_tennis: Table tennis regulations allow different rubber surfaces on each side of the racket.
table_tennis: ISBN 2-94031-200-1.
table_tennis: Owed to its small minimum playing area, its ability to be played indoors in all climates, and relative accessibility of equipment, table tennis is enjoyed worldwide not just as a competitive sport, but as a common recreational pastime among players of all levels and ages.
table_tennis: It is also customary for one player (or the umpire/scorer) to conceal the ball in one hand, usually beneath the table, and invite the other player to guess which hand contains the ball.
table_tennis: Jan-Ove Waldner of Sweden first completed the grand slam at 1992 Olympic Games.
table_tennis: Virtual reality table tennis competition took place in Olympic Esports Week on June 24, 2023 in Singapore.
table_tennis: In addition to games between individual players, pairs may also play table tennis.
table_tennis: trademark for "Ping-Pong" is currently owned by Indian Industries, Inc.
table_tennis: Unlike the two aforementioned techniques, sidespin causes the ball to spin on an axis which is vertical, rather than horizontal.
table_tennis: Current regulations stipulate that, unless the racket becomes damaged in play, it may not be exchanged for another at any point during a match.
table_tennis: When a pair reaches 5 points in the final game, the pairs must switch ends of the table and change the receiver to reverse the order of play.
table_tennis: A speed drive is used mostly for keeping the ball in play, applying pressure on the opponent, and potentially opening up an opportunity for a more powerful attack.
table_tennis: That means the first receiver of the game is the player who served to the first server of the game in the preceding game.
table_tennis: The player serving first in a game receives first in the next game of the match.
table_tennis: Singles and doubles are both played in international competition, including the Olympic Games since 1988 and the Commonwealth Games since 2002.
table_tennis: Most professional players nowadays, such as Ding Ning, Timo Boll and Zhang Jike, primarily use loop for offense.
table_tennis: In each game of a doubles match, the pair having the right to serve first shall choose which of them will do so.
table_tennis: At the professional level, backspin is usually used defensively in order to keep the ball low.
table_tennis: Play is fast, requiring quick fired reactions and constant attention, and is characterized by an emphasis on spin, which can affect the ball's trajectory more than in other ball sports.
table_tennis: The ITTF states that all events after July 2014 are played with a new poly material ball.
table_tennis: Despite the speed of the game and frequent, rapid exchanges, a player remains able to discern clearly which side of the racket struck the ball.
table_tennis: The name "ping-pong" then came to describe the game played using the rather expensive Jaques's equipment, with other manufacturers calling it table tennis.
table_tennis: The rules say that the ball shall bounce up 24–26 cm (9.4–10.2 in) when dropped from a height of 30.5 cm (12.0 in) onto a standard steel block thereby having a coefficient of restitution of 0.89 to 0.92.
table_tennis: Backspin is commonly employed in service because it is harder to produce an offensive return, though at the professional level most people serve sidespin with either backspin or topspin.
table_tennis: The axis of rotation is still roughly perpendicular to the trajectory of the ball.
table_tennis: Official ITTF website
Official ETTU website
table_tennis: Table tennis was growing in popularity by 1901 to the extent that tournaments were being organized, books were being written on the subject, and an unofficial world championship was held in 1902.
table_tennis: {{cite book}}: |work= ignored (help)
Seemiller, Dan (1996).
table_tennis: The hook can even be used in some extreme cases to circumvent the net when away from the table.
table_tennis: Various types of surfaces provide various levels of spin or speed, and in some cases they nullify spin.
table_tennis: Though table tennis players grip their rackets in various ways, their grips can be classified into two major families of styles, penhold and shakehand.
table_tennis: A push can be difficult to attack because the backspin on the ball causes it to drop toward the table upon striking the opponent's racket.
table_tennis: Against good players, it may be the worst option because the opponent will counter with a loop, putting the first player in a defensive position.
table_tennis: This stroke is sometimes referred to as a "hook".
table_tennis: For example, if the order of play is A→X→B→Y at beginning of the first game, the order begins with X→A→Y→B or Y→B→X→A in the second game depending on either X or Y being chosen as the first server of the game.
table_tennis: After making a service or a return, the ball touches anything other than the net assembly before being struck by the opponent.
table_tennis: Players are eliminated as they lose a point.
table_tennis: Thereafter, the server and receiver must alternately make a return until the rally is over.
table_tennis: It is actually possible to smash with backspin offensively, but only on high balls that are close to the net.
table_tennis: Chinese penholders favour a round racket head, for a more over-the-table style of play.
table_tennis: Human Kinetics.
table_tennis: Traditionally, penhold players use only one side of the racket to hit the ball during normal play, and the side which is in contact with the last three fingers is generally not used.
table_tennis: In October 2021, the ITTF updated its regulations regarding the colors of rubbers on table-tennis rackets.
table_tennis: At each change of service, the previous receiver shall become the server and the partner of the previous server shall become the receiver.
table_tennis: For example, when the last order of play before a pair score 5 points in the final game is A→X→B→Y, the order after change shall be A→Y→B→X if A still has the second serve.
table_tennis: A push resembles a tennis slice: the racket cuts underneath the ball, imparting backspin and causing the ball to float slowly to the other side of the table.
table_tennis: The table is 2.74 m (9.0 ft) long, 1.525 m (5.0 ft) wide, and 76 cm (2.5 ft) high with any continuous material so long as the table yields a uniform bounce of about 23 cm (9.1 in) when a standard ball is dropped onto it from a height of 30 cm (11.8 in), or about 77%.
table_tennis: The server's body or clothing cannot be used to obstruct sight of the ball; the opponent and the umpire must have a clear view of the ball at all times.
table_tennis: A match shall consist of the best of any odd number of games.
table_tennis: Table Tennis: Steps to Success.
table_tennis: After each game, players switch sides of the table.
table_tennis: Blocks almost always produce the same spin as was received, many times topspin.
table_tennis: These successes have been somewhat controversial in Singapore.
table_tennis: Alterations are frequently made to regulations regarding equipment in an effort to maintain a balance between defensive and offensive spin choices.
table_tennis: The shakehand grip's simplicity and versatility, coupled with the acceptance among top-level Chinese trainers that the European style of play should be emulated and trained against, has established it as a common grip even in China.
table_tennis: If the expedite system is introduced while the ball is not in play, the previous receiver shall serve first.
table_tennis: Like the backspin stroke, however, the axis of spin remains roughly perpendicular to the trajectory of the ball thus allowing for the Magnus effect to dictate the subsequent curvature.
table_tennis: Archived from the original on 6 July 2010.
table_tennis: Obstruction means a player touches the ball when it is above or traveling towards the playing surface, not having touched the player's court since last being struck by the player.
table_tennis: The racket face points primarily horizontally, perhaps a little bit upward, and the direction of the stroke is straight down.
table_tennis: A backspin stroke is similar in the fact that the corkspin stroke has a lower maximum velocity, simply due to the contact angle of the racket when producing the stroke.
table_tennis: Charyn, Jerome (2002).
table_tennis: If the umpire is doubtful of the legality of a service they may first interrupt play and give a warning to the server.
table_tennis: The object of a defensive chop is to match the topspin of the opponent's shot with backspin.
table_tennis: In this circumstance, the Magnus effect will still dictate the curvature of the ball to some degree.
table_tennis: Japanese and Korean penholders will often use a square-headed racket for an away-from-the-table style of play.
table_tennis: The most important international competitions are the World Table Tennis Championships, the Table Tennis World Cup, the Olympics and the World Table Tennis Finals.
table_tennis: Ma Lin and Chen Meng won both the Olympic gold and the World Cup, but lost in the finals of the World Championships.
table_tennis: International Table Tennis Federation (2021).
table_tennis: OCLC 248920627.
table_tennis: Once introduced, the expedite system remains in force until the end of the match.
table_tennis: In the 1950s, paddles that used a rubber sheet combined with an underlying sponge layer changed the game dramatically, introducing greater spin and speed.
table_tennis: This is known as "closing the racket".
table_tennis: The speed limitation of the topspin stroke is minor compared to the backspin stroke.
table_tennis: The ball must remain behind the endline and above the playing surface of the table at all times during the service.
table_tennis: There are professional competitions at the clubs level; the respective leagues of Austria, Belgium, China (China Table Tennis Super League), Japan (T.League), France, Germany (Bundesliga), and Russia are examples of the highest level.
table_tennis: Although both a "Table Tennis Association" and a "Ping Pong Association" existed by 1910, a new Table Tennis Association was founded in 1921, and renamed the English Table Tennis Association in 1926.
table_tennis: Gibb, a British table tennis enthusiast, who discovered novelty celluloid balls on a trip to the US in 1901 and found them ideal for the game.
table_tennis: Pushing can have advantages in some circumstances, such as when the opponent makes easy mistakes.
table_tennis: Many players today combine inverted and long-pipped rubber.
table_tennis: European table tennis federation and French table tennis association are also arranging virtual reality table tennis tournaments.
table_tennis: Zhang Yining and Ma Long are the only players to have completed the grand slam twice.
table_tennis: The style of play among penhold players can vary greatly from player to player.
table_tennis: If the serve is a clear failure or is doubted again by the umpire after the warning, the receiver scores a point.
table_tennis: The rate of naturalization accelerated after the ITTF's 2009 decision (one year after China won every possible Olympic medal in the sport) to reduce the number of entries per association in both the Olympics and the World Table Tennis Championships.
table_tennis: The opponent moves the playing surface or touches the net assembly.
table_tennis: In 2014, Singapore Table Tennis Association's president Lee Bee Wah quit over this issue; her successor, Ellen Lee, later favored the application for citizenship of Zeng Jian, a China-born paddler.
table_tennis: In the last possible game of a match, for example the seventh game in a best of seven match, players change ends when the first player scores five points, regardless of whose turn it is to serve.
table_tennis: In table tennis topspin is regarded as an offensive technique due to increased ball speed, lower bio-mechanical efficiency and the pressure that it puts on the opponent by reducing reaction time.
table_tennis: A let is also called foul service, if the ball hits the server's side of the table, if the ball does not pass further than the edge, and if the ball hits the table edge and hits the net.
table_tennis: Penhold styles are popular among players originating from East Asian countries such as China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan.
table_tennis: The ITTF approves only wooden tables or their derivates.
table_tennis: The average size of the blade is about 17 centimetres (6.7 in) long and 15 centimetres (5.9 in) wide.
table_tennis: A good chop will float nearly horizontally back to the table, in some cases having so much backspin that the ball actually rises.
table_tennis: In 2007, the governance for table tennis for persons with a disability was transferred from the International Paralympic Committee to the ITTF.
table_tennis: Some defensive players can also impart no-spin or sidespin variations of the chop.
table_tennis: The Seemiller grip's popularity reached its apex in 1985 when four (Danny Seemiller, Ricky Seemiller, Eric Boggan and Brian Masters) of the United States' five participants in the World Championships used it.
table_tennis: When the opponent attempts to return the ball, the topspin causes the ball to jump upwards and the opponent is forced to compensate for the topspin by adjusting the angle of his or her racket.
table_tennis: As this system is not standard across manufacturers, the only way a ball may be used in official competition is upon ITTF approval (the ITTF approval can be seen printed on the ball).
table_tennis: This was intended to make games more fast-paced and exciting.
table_tennis: The player has the right to inspect their opponent's racket before a match to see the type of rubber used and what color it is.
table_tennis: Sidespin can also be employed in offensive rally strokes, often from a greater distance, as an adjunct to topspin or backspin.
table_tennis: European Championships
Europe Top-16
the Asian Championships
the Asian Games
Chinese players have won 60% of the men's World Championships since 1959; in the women's competition for the Corbillon Cup, Chinese players have won all but three of the World Championships since 1971.
table_tennis: The opponent's free hand touches the playing surface.
table_tennis: In table tennis, "Western" refers to Western nations, for this is the grip that players native to Europe and the Americas have almost exclusively employed.
table_tennis: The shakehand grip is so-named because the racket is grasped as if one is performing a handshake.
table_tennis: The hand that is holding the racket counts as part of the racket, and making a good return off one's hand or fingers is allowed.
table_tennis: The wooden portion of the racket, often referred to as the "blade", commonly features anywhere between one and seven plies of wood, though cork, glass fiber, carbon fiber, aluminum fiber, and Kevlar are sometimes used.
table_tennis: Jörgen Persson, Liu Shiwen and Wang Chuqin also won the titles except the Olympic Games.
table_tennis: Corkspin is almost always mixed with another variety of spin since alone, it is not only less effective but also harder to produce.
table_tennis: In competition play, matches are typically best of five or seven games.
table_tennis: The current (fiftieth) version was published in 2022.
table_tennis: Feng Tianwei, a Chinese-born player representing Singapore, has medaled in three Olympic table tennis events, more medals than native Singaporeans have won in all other sports combined (two).
table_tennis: A row of books stood upright along the center of the table as a net, two more books served as rackets and were used to continuously hit a golf-ball.
table_tennis: In 1933, the United States Table Tennis Association, now called USA Table Tennis, was formed.
table_tennis: The position should feel balanced and provide a solid base for striking and quick lateral movement.
table_tennis: A few months later, the ITTF changed from a 21-point to an 11-point scoring system (and the serve rotation was reduced from five points to two), effective in September 2001.
table_tennis: As of 1 October 2021, one side of the racket must remain matte black, while the other side may be either black or one of five bright colors: red (as was previously allowed), blue, green, pink, or violet.
table_tennis: and Canada.
table_tennis: The opponent strikes the ball with a side of the racket blade whose surface is not covered with rubber.
table_tennis: The upper torso is positioned slightly forward and the player is looking forwards.
table_tennis: On the other hand, the popularity of the sport waned in the 1930s Soviet Union, partly because of the promotion of team and military sports, and partly because of a theory that the game had adverse health effects.
table_tennis: ISBN 1-56858-242-0.
table_tennis: Table tennis has been an Olympic sport since 1988, with event categories in both men's and women's singles, and men's and women's teams since replacing doubles in 2008.
table_tennis: Player's failure to make a service or a return or to comply with the Laws is due to a disturbance outside the control of the player.
table_tennis: The most popular style, usually referred to as the Chinese penhold style, involves curling the middle, ring, and fourth finger on the back of the blade with the three fingers always touching one another.
table_tennis: Due to the initial lift of the ball, there is a limit on how much speed with which one can hit the ball without missing the opponent's side of the table.
table_tennis: Since only one side of the racquet is used to hit the ball, two contrasting rubber types can be applied to the blade, offering the advantage of "twiddling" the racket to fool the opponent.
table_tennis: The opponent fails to make a correct service or return.
table_tennis: Another difference is that, unlike backspin and topspin, sidespin will have relatively very little effect on the bounce of the ball, much in the same way that a spinning top would not travel left or right if its axis of rotation were exactly vertical.
table_tennis: Players must hit the ball in turn.
table_tennis: Because the speed is the main aim of this shot, the spin on the ball is often minimal, although it can be applied as well.
table_tennis: (An informal and unsanctioned alternative is for the players to rally the ball three times before playing out the point.
table_tennis: For instance, a white ball is more visible on a green or blue table than on a grey one.
table_tennis: As of 2015, balls are now made of a polymer instead of celluloid, colored white or orange, with a matte finish.
table_tennis: Vladimir Samsonov, the World No.
table_tennis: Kenta Matsudaira is known for primarily using counter-hit for offense.
table_tennis: Often, the best option for beginners is to simply push the ball back again, resulting in pushing rallies.
table_tennis: This was followed by E.C.
table_tennis: Deng Yaping of China is the first female recorded at the inaugural Women's World Cup in 1996.
table_tennis: In the 1930s, Edgar Snow commented in Red Star Over China that the Communist forces in the Chinese Civil War had a "passion for the English game of table tennis" which he found "bizarre".
table_tennis: The receiving pair, however, can only choose in the first game of the match.
table_tennis: It is the position every player initially adopts when receiving and returns to after playing a shot in order to be prepared to make the next shot.
table_tennis: This configuration is sometimes referred to as "traditional penhold" and is more commonly found in square-headed racket styles.
table_tennis: However, backspin also makes it harder for the opponent to return the ball with great speed because of the required angular precision of the return.
table_tennis: Hodges, Larry (1993).
table_tennis: Aside from the initial direction change when bouncing, unless it goes out of reach, the opponent can counter with either topspin or backspin.
table_tennis: This increased the ball's air resistance and effectively slowed down the game.
table_tennis: The International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) followed in 1926.
table_tennis: Smashing uses rapid acceleration to impart as much speed on the ball as possible so that the opponent cannot react in time.
table_tennis: Hancock Ltd.
table_tennis: The final match was played between two players both representing France.
table_tennis: Retrieved 25 December 2011.
table_tennis: It involves the feet being spaced wider than shoulder width and a partial crouch being adopted; the crouch is an efficient posture for moving quickly from and also preloads the muscles enabling a more dynamic movement.
table_tennis: The ball touches the net in service, provided the service is otherwise correct or the ball is obstructed by the player on the receiving side.
table_tennis: London hosted the first official World Championships in 1926.
table_tennis: As it is intended as a rule to shorten the duration of a match, it is mainly deployed in defensive players' matches, which tend to have longer points.
table_tennis: It is achieved by placing the thumb and index finger on either side of the bottom of the racquet head and holding the handle with the rest of the fingers.
table_tennis: A lob can have nearly any kind of spin.
table_tennis: The ITTF also changed the rules on service to prevent a player from hiding the ball during service, in order to increase the average length of rallies and to reduce the server's advantage, effective in 2002.
table_tennis: Play is interrupted by the umpire or assistant umpire.
table_tennis: ITTF 1926 - 2001 Table Tennis Legends.
table_tennis: The next major innovation was by James W.
table_tennis: For example, a player may have a rubber that provides much spin on one side of their racket, and one that provides no spin on the other.
table_tennis: The racket is generally perpendicular to the direction of the stroke.
table_tennis: Winning Table Tennis: Skills, Drills, and Strategies.
table_tennis: In theory, this type of spin produces the most obnoxious effects, but it is less strategically practical than sidespin or backspin, because of the limitations that it imposes upon the opponent during their return.
table_tennis: In 2019, the ITTF adopted new regulations which state that players who acquired a new nationality may not represent their new association before:
table_tennis: Although the official restrictions only focus on the flatness and rigidity of the blade itself, these dimensions are optimal for most play styles.
table_tennis: The grip is considered exceptional for blocking, especially on the backhand side, and for forehand loops of backspin balls.
table_tennis: Manufacturers commonly denote the quality of the ball using a star rating system, typically ranging from one to three, with three stars indicating the highest grade.
table_tennis: Persson is one of the five table tennis players to have competed at seven Olympic Games.
table_tennis: Either individually or in teams of two, players take alternating turns returning a light, hollow ball over the table's net onto the opposing half of the court using small rackets until they fail to do so, which then results in a point for the opponent.
table_tennis: For wheelchair events, the minimums are 8 m (26.2 ft) long and 6 m (19.7 ft) wide.
table_tennis: Table tennis (also known as ping-pong) is a racket sport derived from tennis but distinguished by its playing surface being atop a stationary table, rather than the court on which players stand.
table_tennis: The racket is held at the ready with a bent arm.
table_tennis: The choice of ball color is made according to the table color and its surroundings.
table_tennis: When only 2 players remain, a player hits the ball, sets their paddle down, spins and then retrieves their paddle to make the return.
table_tennis: In the second or the latter games of a match, the game begins in reverse order of play.
table_tennis: Common wood types include balsa, limba, cypress, and hinoki, which is popular in Japan.
table_tennis: Concrete tables with a steel net or a solid concrete partition are sometimes available in outside public spaces, such as parks.
table_tennis: A chop is essentially a bigger, heavier push, taken well back from the table.
table_tennis: ISBN 0-87322-403-5.
table_tennis: The system can also be initiated at any time at the request of both players or pairs.
table_tennis: Seemiller paired inverted rubber with anti-spin rubber.
table_tennis: A notable exception is Michael Maze.
table_tennis: A flip is not a single stroke and can resemble either a loop drive or a loop in its characteristics.
table_tennis: Due to the power involved in offensive strokes, often an opponent simply cannot recover quickly enough to return the blocked shot, especially if the block is aimed at an unexpected side of the table.
table_tennis: d/b/a Escalade Sports.
table_tennis: In contrast, another style, sometimes referred to as the Japanese/Korean penhold grip, involves splaying those three fingers out across the back of the racket, usually with all three fingers touching the back of the racket, rather than stacked upon one another.
table_tennis: Players may tailor their stance based upon their personal preferences, and alter it during the game based upon the specific circumstances.
table_tennis: Returning the serve is one of the most difficult parts of the game, as the server's first move is often the least predictable and thus most advantageous shot due to the numerous spin and speed choices at the server's disposal.
table_tennis: The server then strikes the ball on its descent in such a manner that it first bounces on their own side of the table before passing directly over the net to land on the opponent's side, without touching the net assembly.
table_tennis: A good loop drive will arc quite a bit, and once striking the opponent's side of the table will jump forward, much like a kick serve in tennis.
table_tennis: Although nearly every stroke or serve creates some kind of spin, understanding the individual types of spin allows players to defend against and use different spins effectively.
table_tennis: Another common, informal method is known as "ping for serve" or "pinging for serve", in which players begin by hitting or bouncing the ball, then taking turns to rally and spell out the word "ping" (P-I-N-G), followed by playing out the point to decide the serve.
table_tennis: When a player sets down their paddle, they move to the line at the opposing side of the table.
table_tennis: World Championship of Ping Pong uses old-fashioned wooden paddles covered with sandpaper.
table_tennis: Smash is used more often with penhold grip.
table_tennis: Traditionally these square-headed rackets feature a block of cork on top of the handle, as well as a thin layer of cork on the back of the racket, for increased grip and comfort.
table_tennis: The table or playing surface is uniformly dark colored and matte, divided into two halves by a net at 15.25 cm (6.0 in) in height.
table_tennis: It is very possible for an opponent to execute a perfect loop, drive, or smash, only to have the blocked shot come back just as fast.
table_tennis: For example, if the previous order of play is A→X→B→Y, the order becomes X→B→Y→A after the change of service.
table_tennis: There are also some important international club teams competitions such as the European Champions League and its former competitor, the European Club Cup, where the top club teams from European countries compete.
table_tennis: An offensive table tennis player will think of a rally as a build-up to a winning smash.
table_tennis: The ball passes over the player's court or beyond their end line without touching their court, after being struck by the opponent.
table_tennis: The rally proceeds this way until one side fails to make a legal return and the other side scores.
table_tennis: The rules of table tennis do not prescribe the manner in which one must grip the racket, and numerous grips are employed.
table_tennis: and the order of play shall be A→X→B→Y.
table_tennis: To impart a spin on the ball which is parallel to its trajectory, the racket must be swung more or less perpendicular to the trajectory of the ball, greatly limiting the forward momentum that the racket transfers to the ball.
table_tennis: Table tennis is governed by the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF), founded in 1926, and specifies the official rules in the ITTF handbook.
table_tennis: This makes sidespin a useful weapon in service, because it is less easily recognized when bouncing, and the ball "loses" less spin on the bounce.
table_tennis: A correct or incorrect guess determines the order of choice: the "winner" may select to serve, receive, or choose the side of the table.
table_tennis: Thus, though backed off the table by tens of feet and running to reach the ball, a good defensive player can still win the point using good lobs.
table_tennis: A Grand Slam is earned by a player who wins singles crowns at the Olympic Games, World Championships, and World Cup.
table_tennis: The invention is also attributed to David Foster in 1890.
table_tennis: For the opponent to have time to realize a serve is taking place, the ball must be tossed a minimum of 16 centimetres (6.3 in) in the air.
table_tennis: The ITTF uses the term "racket", though "bat" is common in Britain, and "paddle" in the U.S.
table_tennis: Jaques & Son Ltd trademarked it in 1901.
table_tennis: Four Walls Eight Windows.
table_tennis: Round the World (also called Round Robin or Round the Table) table tennis is an informal party-type variation in which players line up on either side of the table.
table_tennis: First, the older 38 mm (1.50 in) balls were officially replaced by 40 mm (1.57 in) balls in October 2000.
table_tennis: 2021 ITTF Handbook.
table_tennis: This created some controversies.
table_tennis: Continental competitions include the following:
table_tennis: It has been suggested that makeshift versions of the game were developed by British military officers in India around the 1860s or 1870s, who brought it back with them.
table_tennis: On the bounce, the topspin will accelerate the ball, much in the same way that a wheel which is already spinning would accelerate upon making contact with the ground.
table_tennis: For example, the European Table Tennis Union (ETTU) is the governing body responsible for table tennis in Europe.
table_tennis: In game play, the player serving the ball commences a play.
table_tennis: ITTF currently includes 226 member associations worldwide.
table_tennis: In doubles, all the rules of single play are applied except for the following.
table_tennis: This stroke has greatly improved and strengthened the penhold style both physically and psychologically, as it eliminates the strategic weakness of the traditional penhold backhand.
table_tennis: The racket is held closed and near to the ball, which is hit with a short movement "off the bounce" (immediately after hitting the table) so that the ball travels faster to the other side.
table_tennis: Many world-class European and East Asian players currently use the shakehand grip, and it is generally accepted that shakehands is easier to learn than penholder, allowing a broader range of playing styles both offensive and defensive.
table_tennis: According to the New York Times, 31% of the table tennis players at the 2016 Summer Olympics were naturalized.
table_tennis: Though it is sometimes referred to as the "tennis" or "Western" grip, it bears no relation to the Western tennis grip, which was popularized on the West Coast of the United States in which the racket is rotated 90°, and played with the wrist turned so that on impact the knuckles face the target.
table_tennis: Eleven Table Tennis was the game played during the event.
table_tennis: By flipping the racket in play, different types of returns are possible.
table_tennis: Sometimes a combination of the two styles occurs, wherein the middle, ring and fourth fingers are straight, but still stacked, or where all fingers may be touching the back of the racket, but are also in contact with one another.
table_tennis: The opponent strikes the ball twice successively.
table_tennis: A similar situation arose in the United States, where Jaques sold the rights to the "ping-pong" name to Parker Brothers.
table_tennis: A line painted along the long axis of the table to create doubles courts bisects the table.
table_tennis: The sport originated in Victorian England, where it was played among the upper-class as an after-dinner parlour game.
table_tennis: ISBN 0-88011-520-3.
table_tennis: This is often referred to as "serve to play", "rally to serve", "play for serve", or "volley for serve".
table_tennis: The following table presents an exhaustive list of all players to have completed a grand slam.
table_tennis: Goode who, in 1901, invented the modern version of the racket by fixing a sheet of pimpled, or stippled, rubber to the wooden blade.
table_tennis: ITTF Group CEO, Steve Dainton also participated in the event.
table_tennis: Though the opponent may smash the ball hard and fast, a good defensive lob could be more difficult to return due to the unpredictability and heavy amounts of the spin on the ball.
table_tennis: The lob is used less frequently by professional players.
table_tennis: The international rules specify that the game is played with a sphere having a mass of 2.7 grams (0.095 oz) and a diameter of 40 millimetres (1.57 in).
table_tennis: A game shall be won by the player first scoring 11 points unless both players score 10 points, when the game shall be won by the first player subsequently gaining a lead of 2 points.
table_tennis: The use of speed glue beginning in the mid-1980s increased the spin and speed even further, resulting in changes to the equipment to "slow the game down".
table_tennis: In casual matches, players often neglect to toss the ball upwards in accordance with the rules; however, this is technically illegal and may afford the server an unfair advantage.
table_tennis: For example, if A is paired with B and X is paired with Y, then A is the server and X is the receiver.
table_tennis: If the individual match or the team match has not ended, any unused penalty points can be transferred to the next game of that match.
table_tennis: This stroke is the predominant technique used in professional competition because it gives the opponent less time to respond.
table_tennis: After the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, the ITTF instituted several rule changes that were aimed at making table tennis more viable as a televised spectator sport.
table_tennis: The ball may still be attacked, however, and the resulting shot is called a flip because the backswing is compressed into a quick wrist action.
table_tennis: Sizzling Chops & Devilish Spins: Ping-Pong and the Art of Staying Alive.
table_tennis: The name "ping-pong" was in wide use before British manufacturer J.
table_tennis: The umpire interrupts the game, and the game resumes with players serving for one point in turn.
table_tennis: To help a player distinguish between the rubber used by their opposing player, international rules specify that one side must be black while the other side must be a bright color clearly distinguishable from black and from the color of the ball.
table_tennis: On many continents, there is a governing body responsible for table tennis on that continent.
table_tennis: Parker Brothers then enforced its trademark for the term in the 1920s, making the various associations change their names to "table tennis" instead of the more common, but trademarked, term.
table_tennis: Order of play, serving and receiving
