taekwondo: Fouls in ITF sparring include: attacking a fallen opponent, leg sweeping, holding/grabbing, or intentional attack to a target other than the opponent.
taekwondo: For example, Choi Hong-hi expressed his philosophical basis for taekwondo as the Five Tenets of Taekwondo:
taekwondo: All major national and international tournaments have moved fully (as of 2017) to electronic scoring, including the use of electronic headgear.
taekwondo: I shall observe the tenets of taekwondo
I shall respect the instructor and seniors
I shall never misuse taekwondo
I shall be a champion of freedom and justice
I shall build a more peaceful world
Modern ITF organizations have continued to update and expand upon this philosophy.
taekwondo: The name was also the closest to the pronunciation of "taekkyon", The new name was initially slow to catch on among the leaders of the kwans.
taekwondo: Taekwondo ranks vary from style to style and are not standardized.
taekwondo: After his retirement, the ITF split in 2001 and then again in 2002 to create three separate ITF federations, each of which continues to operate today under the same name.
taekwondo: In this round, the first competitor to score a point wins the match.
taekwondo: Many of these underpinnings however refer back to the Five Commandments of the Hwarang as a historical referent.
taekwondo: A win can occur by points, or if one competitor is unable to continue (knockout).
taekwondo: These forms are equivalent to kata in karate.
taekwondo: Choi also advocated a "relax/strike" principle for taekwondo; in other words, between blocks, kicks, and strikes the practitioner should relax the body, then tense the muscles only while performing the technique.
taekwondo: Techniques are divided into three categories: scoring techniques (such as a kick to the hogu), permitted but non-scoring techniques (such as a kick that strikes an arm), and not-permitted techniques (such as a kick below the waist).
taekwondo: This involves raising one's centre of gravity between techniques, then lowering it as the technique is performed, producing the up-and-down movement from which the term "sine wave" is derived.
taekwondo: The results of that analysis are known by ITF practitioners as Choi's Theory of Power.
taekwondo: However, there are several decisions that can lead to a win, as well, including superiority, withdrawal, disqualification, or even a referee's punitive declaration.
taekwondo: The GTF and all three ITFs practice Choi's ITF-style Taekwondo.
taekwondo: In addition to competition with the traditional forms, there is experimentation with freestyle forms that allow more creativity.
taekwondo: The International Olympic Committee recognized the WT and Taekwondo sparring in 1980.
taekwondo: The original kwans that formed KTA continue to exist today, but as independent fraternal membership organizations that support the World Taekwondo and Kukkiwon.
taekwondo: Breath Control: the idea that during a strike one should exhale, with the exhalation concluding at the moment of impact.
taekwondo: The only techniques allowed are kicks (delivering a strike using an area of the foot below the ankle), punches (delivering a strike using the closed fist), and pushes.
taekwondo: In 1990, the Global Taekwondo Federation (GTF) split from the ITF due to the political controversies surrounding the ITF; the GTF continues to practice ITF-style Taekwondo, however, with additional elements incorporated into the style.
taekwondo: As of June 2018, this was changed to 5 points.
taekwondo: "Taekwondo" can be translated as tae ("strike with foot"), kwon ("strike with hand"), and do ("the art or way").
taekwondo: In 1959, the name taekwondo was agreed upon by the nine original kwans as a common term for their martial arts.
taekwondo: Titles can also come with ranks.
taekwondo: Korean numerals may be used as prompts for commands or for counting repetition exercises.
taekwondo: While the Kukkiwon focus on the martial art and self-defence aspects of Kukki-Taekwondo, the WT promoted the sportive side, and its competitions employ a subset of the techniques present in the Kukkiwon-style taekwondo.
taekwondo: For example, Choi observed that the kinetic energy of a strike increases quadratically with the speed of the strike, but increases only linearly with the mass of the striking object.
taekwondo: The International Taekwon-Do Federation (ITF) has sparring rules similar to the WT's, but they differ in some ways:
taekwondo: Among the refinements incorporated into this new sub-style is the "sine wave"; one of Choi Hong-hi's later principles of taekwondo is that the body's centre of gravity should be raised-and-lowered throughout a movement.
taekwondo: Discussions around the historical influences of taekwondo have been controversial, with two main schools of thought: traditionalism and revisionism.
taekwondo: In 1962, Jhoon Rhee, upon graduating from college in Texas, relocated to and established a chain of martial arts schools in the Washington, D.C.
taekwondo: Teul (officially romanized as tul; 틀) is the term usually used in ITF/Chang Hon-style Taekwondo.
taekwondo: Taekwondo (; Korean: 태권도; [t̪ʰɛ.k͈wʌ̹n.d̪o] ) is a Korean martial art and combat sport involving primarily kicking techniques and punching.
taekwondo: A regular kick (no turning or spinning) to the head scores 3 points
A technical kick (a kick that involves turning or spinning) to the hogu scores 4 points.
taekwondo: This limits corner judges to scoring only technical points and punches.
taekwondo: Korean vocabulary commonly used in taekwondo schools includes:
taekwondo: Since 2000, taekwondo has been one of three Asian martial arts (the others being judo and karate), and one of six total (the others being the previously mentioned, Greco-Roman wrestling, freestyle wrestling, and boxing) included in the Olympic Games.
taekwondo: Rules of Taekwondo Promotion Test, Kukkiwon Those who hold a 7th–9th dan are considered Grandmasters.
taekwondo: The ATA established international spin-offs called the Songahm Taekwondo Federation (STF) and the World Traditional Taekwondo Union (WTTU) to promote the practice of Songahm Taekwondo internationally.
taekwondo: In later years, the Korean government has been a significant supporter of traditionalist views as to divorce taekwondo from its link to Japan and give Korea a "legitimate cultural past".
taekwondo: The GTF-variant of ITF practices an additional six tul.
taekwondo: Choi continued to develop the ITF-style, notably with the 1983 publication of his Encyclopedia of Taekwon-Do.
taekwondo: The scoring system is:
1 point for Punch to the body or head.
taekwondo: Different taekwondo styles and associations (ATA, ITF, GTF, WT, etc.) use different taekwondo forms.
taekwondo: If a competitor has a 20-point lead at the end of the second round or achieves a 20-point lead at any point in the third round, then the match is over and that competitor is declared the winner.
taekwondo: In taekwondo schools—even outside Korea—Korean language commands and vocabulary are often used.
taekwondo: This scoring system varies between individual organisations within the ITF; for example, in the TAGB, punches to the head or body score 1 point, kicks to the body score 2 points, and kicks to the head score 3 points.
taekwondo: Punches to the head are not allowed.
taekwondo: Likewise, the ITF itself split in 2001 and again in 2002 into three separate federations, headquartered in Austria, the United Kingdom, and Spain respectively.
taekwondo: Kukkiwon-issued ranks also hold an age requirement, with grandmaster ranks requiring an age of over forty.
taekwondo: Points are awarded for permitted techniques delivered to the legal scoring areas as determined by an electronic scoring system, which assesses the strength and location of the contact.
taekwondo: The school or place where instruction is given is called a dojang (도장; 道場).
taekwondo: In addition to sparring competition, World Taekwondo sanctions competition in poomsae or forms, although this is not an Olympic event.
taekwondo: Para Taekwondo
Tae Kwon Do Life Magazine
Taekwondo student oath
Taekwondo in India
taekwondo: Taekwondo is primarily a bare-hand martial art and does not include weapons such as swords or nunchucks (nunchaku).
taekwondo: In particular, the move to electronic headgear has replaced controversy over judging with controversy over how the technology has changed the sport.
taekwondo: In 2010, taekwondo was accepted as a Commonwealth Games sport.
taekwondo: Taekwondo competitions typically involve sparring, breaking, and patterns; some tournaments also include special events such as demonstration teams and self-defense (hosinsul).
taekwondo: Kyorugi ([kjʌɾuɡi]), a type of full-contact sparring, has been an Olympic event since 2000.
taekwondo: A Taekwondo practitioner typically wears a dobok (도복; 道服) uniform with a belt tied around the waist.
taekwondo: Equilibrium: maintaining a correct centre-of-balance throughout a technique.
taekwondo: In 1972, the Korea Taekwondo Association (KTA) Central Dojang opened in Seoul; in 1973, the name was changed to Kukkiwon.
taekwondo: A regular kick (no turning or spinning) to the hogu scores 2 points.
taekwondo: In 1972, South Korea withdrew its support for the ITF.
taekwondo: In 1973 the KTA and Kukkiwon supported the establishment of the World Taekwondo Federation (WTF), which later changed its name to "World Taekwondo" (WT) in 2017 due to the previous initialism overlapping with an internet slang term.
taekwondo: The ATA went on to become one of the largest chains of Taekwondo schools in the United States.
taekwondo: Martial arts philosophy.
taekwondo: Initially, the South Korean president gave Choi's ITF limited support, due to their personal relationship.
taekwondo: A hyeong is a systematic, prearranged sequence of martial techniques that is performed either with or without the use of a weapon.
taekwondo: Mass: the principle of bringing as much of the body to bear on a strike as possible; again using the turning kick as an example, the idea would be to rotate the hip as well as the leg during the kick in order to take advantage of the hip's additional mass in terms of providing power to the kick.
taekwondo: In some smaller tournaments, and in the past, points were awarded by three corner judges using electronic scoring tallies.
taekwondo: There are two kinds of competition sparring: point sparring, in which all strikes are light contact and the clock is stopped when a point is scored; and Olympic sparring, where all strikes are full contact and the clock continues when points are scored.
taekwondo: The referee can give penalties at any time for rule-breaking, such as hitting an area not recognized as a target, usually the legs or neck.
taekwondo: As of October 2010, 4 points were awarded if a turning kick was used to execute this attack.
taekwondo: In the event of a tie, a fourth "sudden death" overtime round, sometimes called a "Golden Point", is held to determine the winner after a one-minute rest period.
taekwondo: Competitors are penalized with disqualification if they injure their opponent and he can no longer continue (knockout).
taekwondo: A continuous point system is utilized in ITF competition, where the fighters are allowed to continue after scoring a technique.
taekwondo: In fact, WT sparring competitions award additional points for strikes that incorporate spinning kicks, kicks to the head, or both.
taekwondo: Hyeong (sometimes hyung; 형; 形 or 型) is the term usually used in Traditional Taekwondo (i.e., 1950s–1960s styles of Korean martial arts).
taekwondo: Essentially all ITF schools do, however, use the patterns (tul) defined in the Encyclopedia, with some exceptions related to the forms Juche and Ko-Dang.
taekwondo: His company is based on promoting TKD tournaments in a style which mixes other martial arts like Karate and Capoeira.
taekwondo: This name consists of the hanja 跆 tae "to stomp, trample", 手 su "hand" and 道 do "way, discipline".
taekwondo: In the 1970s, at the urging of Choi Hong-hi, Rhee adopted ITF-style Taekwondo within his chain of schools, but like the GTF later departed from the ITF due to the political controversies surrounding Choi and the ITF.
taekwondo: Courtesy (예의; 禮儀; yeui)
Integrity (염치; 廉恥; yeomchi)
Perseverance (인내; 忍耐; innae)
Self-control (극기; 克己; geukgi)
Indomitable spirit (백절불굴; 百折不屈; baekjeolbulgul)
These tenets are further articulated in a taekwondo oath, also authored by Choi:
taekwondo: It started as a demonstration event at the 1988 games in Seoul, a year after becoming a medal event at the Pan Am Games, and became an official medal event at the 2000 Summer Olympics.
taekwondo: Taekwondo practitioners wear a uniform known as a dobok.
taekwondo: Early progenitors of taekwondo—the founders of the nine original kwans—who were able to study in Japan were exposed to Japanese martial arts, including karate, judo, and kendo, while others were exposed to the martial arts of China and Manchuria.
taekwondo: Penalties, called "Gam-jeom" are counted as an addition of one point for the opposing contestant.
taekwondo: As part of the unification process, the Korea Taekwondo Association (KTA) was formed through a collaborative effort by representatives from all the kwans, and the work began on a common curriculum, which eventually resulted in the Kukkiwon and the Kukki Style of Taekwondo.
taekwondo: In 2015, all the spin-offs were reunited under the umbrella of ATA International.
taekwondo: For senior ranks ("black belt" ranks), each rank is called a dan 단 (段) or "degree" and counts upwards.
taekwondo: Following 10 "Gam-jeom" a player is declared the loser by referee's punitive declaration
At the end of three rounds, the competitor with most points wins the match.
taekwondo: The oldest governing body for taekwondo is the Korea Taekwondo Association (KTA), formed in 1959 through a collaborative effort by representatives from the nine original kwans, or martial arts schools, in Korea.
taekwondo: The style of taekwondo practised by the ITF before its 1973 split with the KTA is sometimes called by ITF practitioners "Traditional Taekwondo", though a more accurate term would be Traditional ITF Taekwondo.
taekwondo: Within the ITF taekwondo tradition there are two sub-styles:
taekwondo: A punch that makes strong contact with the opponent's hogu scores a point.
taekwondo: These schools were established by Korean martial artists with backgrounds in Japanese and Chinese martial arts.
taekwondo: Reaction Force: the principle that as the striking limb is brought forward, other parts of the body should be brought backwards in order to provide more power to the striking limb.
taekwondo: Ranks typically count down from higher numbers to lower ones.
taekwondo: Choi wanted all the other member kwans of the KTA to adopt his own Chang Hon-style of taekwondo, as a unified style.
taekwondo: A technical kick to the head scores 5 points.
taekwondo: Single competitors perform a designated pattern of movements, and are assessed by judges for accuracy (accuracy of movements, balance, precision of details) and presentation (speed and power, rhythm, energy), both of which receive numerical scores, with deductions made for errors.
taekwondo: Under the sponsorship of the South Korean government's Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism the Kukkiwon became the new national academy for Taekwondo, thereby establishing a new "unified" style of Taekwondo.
taekwondo: Like Jhoon Rhee Taekwondo, ATA Taekwondo has its roots in traditional taekwondo.
taekwondo: During this time taekwondo was also adopted for use by the South Korean military, which increased its popularity among civilian martial arts schools.
taekwondo: Taekwondo is characterized by its emphasis on head-height kicks, jumping and spinning kicks, and fast kicking techniques.
taekwondo: African Games
Asian Games
European Games
Pacific Games
Pan American Games
Universiade
Taekwondo is also an optional sport at the Commonwealth Games.
taekwondo: Competitors must wear a hogu, head protector, shin pads, foot socks, forearm guards, hand gloves, a mouthpiece, and a groin cup.
taekwondo: The patterns practiced by each style (called 형; hyeong, pumsae 품새, or tul 틀, depending on the style); these are sets of prescribed formal sequences of movements that demonstrate mastery of posture, positioning, and technique
Differences in the sparring rules for competition.
taekwondo: Different schools and associations will use different vocabulary, however, and may even refer to entirely different techniques by the same name.
taekwondo: The official curriculum of those kwans that joined the unification is that of the Kukkiwon, with the notable exception of half the Oh Do Kwan which joined the ITF instead and therefore uses the Chan Hon curriculum.
taekwondo: A belt color may also feature a stripe.
taekwondo: In 2018, the South Korean government officially designated taekwondo as Korea's national martial art.
taekwondo: In 1973, the KTA established the World Taekwondo Federation (WTF, now called World Taekwondo, WT) to promote the sportive side of Kukkiwon-Taekwondo.
taekwondo: In Olympic taekwondo competitions, however, only sparring (using WT competition rules) is performed.
taekwondo: In ITF-style Taekwondo, the word used for "forms" is tul; the specific set of tul used by the ITF is called Chang Hon.
taekwondo: Traditionalism holds that the origins of taekwondo are indigenous while revisionism, the prevailing theory, argues that taekwondo is rooted in karate.
taekwondo: The ITF continued to function as an independent federation, then headquartered in Toronto, Canada.
taekwondo: This principle was incorporated into the early design of taekwondo and is still used.
taekwondo: Most styles are associated with a governing body or federation that defines the style.
taekwondo: The kwans also function as a channel for the issuing of Kukkiwon dan and poom certification (black belt ranks) for their members.
taekwondo: Choi Hong-hi advocated the use of the name "Tae Kwon Do", replacing su "hand" with 拳 kwon (Revised Romanization: gwon; McCune–Reischauer: kwŏn) "fist", the term also used for "martial arts" in Chinese (pinyin quán).
taekwondo: Kukkiwon now serves many of the functions previously served by the KTA, in terms of defining a government-sponsored unified style of taekwondo.
taekwondo: Poomsae (sometimes pumsae or formerly poomse; 품새; 品勢) is the term officially used by Kukkiwon/WT-style and ATA-style Taekwondo.
taekwondo: Three Korean terms may be used with reference to taekwondo forms or patterns.
taekwondo: The names and symbolism of the Chang Hon tul refer to elements of Korean history, culture and religious philosophy.
taekwondo: Competitors are matched within gender and weight division—eight divisions for World Championships that are condensed to four for the Olympics.
taekwondo: He misrecognized the technique on display as taekkyon, and urged martial arts to be introduced to the army under a single system.
taekwondo: They used a number of different names such as Tang Soo Do (Chinese Hand Way), Kong Soo Do (Empty Hand Way) and Tae Soo Do (Foot Hand Way).
taekwondo: area that practiced Traditional Taekwondo.
taekwondo: Like the ITF philosophy, it centers on the development of a peaceful society as one of the overarching goals for the practice of taekwondo.
taekwondo: Choi based his understanding of power on biomechanics and Newtonian physics as well as Chinese martial arts.
taekwondo: While organisations such as ITF or Kukkiwon define the general style of taekwondo, individual clubs and schools tend to tailor their taekwondo practices.
taekwondo: Until then, "Tang Soo Do" was the term used for Korean karate, using the Korean hanja pronunciation of the Japanese kanji 唐手道.
taekwondo: At the end of two minutes (or some other specified time), the competitor with more scoring techniques wins.
taekwondo: As an example, if the right leg is brought forward in a roundhouse kick, the right arm is brought backwards to provide the reaction force.
taekwondo: Choi defined 24 Chang Hon tul.
taekwondo: As one example, in Kukkiwon/WT-style Taekwondo, the term ap seogi refers to an upright walking stance, while in ITF/Chang Hon-style Taekwondo ap seogi refers to a long, low, front stance.
taekwondo: Speed: as previously noted, the speed of execution of a technique in taekwondo is deemed to be even more important than mass in terms of providing power.
taekwondo: The competition is not full contact, and excessive contact is not allowed.
taekwondo: In the Kukkiwon/WT tradition, full-contact sparring is facilitated by the employment of more extensive equipment: padded helmets called homyun are always worn, as are padded torso protectors called hogu; feet, shins, groins, hands, and forearms protectors are also worn.
taekwondo: The components of the Theory of Power include:
taekwondo: Traditional Taekwondo is still practised today but generally under names like Tang Soo Do and Soo Bahk Do.
taekwondo: In WT/Kukki-Taekwondo, instructors holding 1st to 3rd dan are considered assistant instructors (kyosa-nim), are not yet allowed to issue ranks, and are generally thought of as still having much to learn.
taekwondo: Beginning in 1955 the leaders of the kwans began discussing in earnest the possibility of creating a unified Korean martial art.
taekwondo: The World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) also refers to the commandments of the Hwarang in the articulation of its taekwondo philosophy.
taekwondo: In the early 1970s, a new style of Taekwondo was developed to promote it as a competitive sport, alongside its traditional martial arts form.
taekwondo: In 1972, the KTA and the South Korean government's Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism established the Kukkiwon as the new national academy for taekwondo.
taekwondo: Excessive contact is generally not allowed according to the official ruleset, and judges penalize any competitor with disqualification if they injure their opponent and he can no longer continue (although these rules vary between ITF organizations).
taekwondo: The style of Taekwondo practised by the ATA is called Songahm Taekwondo.
taekwondo: Hand attacks to the head are allowed.
taekwondo: For junior ranks, levels are indicated by a number paired with the term geup (급; 級; geup, also spelled gup, or kup), which represents belt color.
taekwondo: Instructors who hold a 4th to 6th dan are considered master instructors (sabum-nim), and are allowed to grade students to ranks beneath their own.
taekwondo: Competitors do not wear the hogu (although they are required to wear approved foot and hand protection equipment, as well as optional head guards).
taekwondo: This was, however, met with resistance as the other kwans instead wanted a unified style to be created based on inputs from all the kwans, to serve as a way to bring on the heritage and characteristics of all of the styles, not just the style of a single kwan.
taekwondo: Students must pass tests to advance ranks, and promotions happen at a progressive rate depending on the school.
taekwondo: Concentration: the principle of bringing as many muscles as possible to bear on a strike, concentrating the area of impact into as small an area as possible.
taekwondo: If there is no score in the additional round, the winner is decided by superiority, as determined by the refereeing officials or number of fouls committed during that round.
taekwondo: The punch must be a straight punch with arm extended; jabs, hooks, uppercuts, etc.
taekwondo: Taekwondo is originally a martial art which was developed during the 1940s and 1950s by Korean martial artists with experience in martial arts such as karate and Chinese martial arts.
taekwondo: Some believe that the new electronic scoring system reduces controversy concerning judging decisions, but this technology is still not universally accepted.
taekwondo: Each match consists of three two-minute rounds, with one minute rest between rounds, though these are often abbreviated or shortened for some junior and regional tournaments.
taekwondo: 2 points for Jumping kick to the body or kick to the head, or a jumping punch to the head
3 points for Jumping kick to the head
The competition area is 9×9 meters for international events.
taekwondo: Depending on the style, Hyeong, Poomsae or Teul are patterns that demonstrate a range of kicking, punching and blocking techniques, gyeokpa is the art of breaking wooden boards and in the combat sport kyorugi involves the kind of sparring seen in the Olympics.
taekwondo: At the Olympic and Paralympic level, taekwondo is governed by World Taekwondo.
taekwondo: It is believed that the relax/strike principle increases the power of the technique, by conserving the body's energy.
taekwondo: Demonstrations often also incorporate bricks, tiles, and blocks of ice or other materials.
taekwondo: Pair and team competition is also recognized, where two or more competitors perform the same form at the same time.
taekwondo: Rhee went on to develop his own style of taekwondo called Jhoon Rhee-style Taekwondo, incorporating elements of both traditional and ITF-style Taekwondo as well as original elements.
taekwondo: are permitted but do not score.
taekwondo: For this reason, Kukkiwon-style Taekwondo is often referred to as WT-style Taekwondo, sport-style Taekwondo, or Olympic-style Taekwondo, though in reality the style is defined by the Kukkiwon, not the WT.
taekwondo: ITF competitions also feature performances of patterns, breaking, and 'special techniques' (where competitors perform prescribed board breaks at great heights).
taekwondo: However, Choi and the government later split on the issue of whether to accept North Korean influence on the martial art.
taekwondo: The United States Taekwondo Alliance
Kukkiwon's Guide to Technical Terminology in Taekwondo Archived 2015-11-23 at the Wayback Machine
taekwondo: He expanded on this principle with his advocacy of the "sine wave" technique.
taekwondo: In other words, speed is more important than size in terms of generating power.
taekwondo: Some ITF schools adopt the sine wave style, while others do not.
taekwondo: In the ITF tradition, typically only the hands and feet are padded.
taekwondo: The major technical differences among taekwondo styles and organizations generally revolve around:
taekwondo: The name "Tae Soo Do" (跆手道) was also used to describe a unified style Korean martial arts.
taekwondo: When sparring, padded equipment is usually worn.
taekwondo: After the 1973 split, Choi Hong-hi continued to develop and refine the style, ultimately publishing his work in his 1983 Encyclopedia of Taekwondo.
taekwondo: The philosophical position articulated by the Kukkiwon is likewise based on the Hwarang tradition.
taekwondo: Although each taekwondo club or school is different, a student typically takes part in most or all of the following:
