temperate_climate: El Alto, Bolivia is one of the few confirmed cities that features this variation of a cold subtropical highland climate.
temperate_climate: There is an equal climatic influence from both the polar and tropical zones in this climate region.
temperate_climate: In some parts of this climate, temperatures as high as 30°C (86°F) have been recorded on rare occasions, while temperatures as low as −15 °C (5 °F) have still been recorded on rare occasions.
temperate_climate: The biggest described number of taxa in a temperate region is found in southern Africa, where some 24,000 taxa (species and infraspecific taxa) have been described.
temperate_climate: Extreme winters or summers have a huge impact on the productivity of agriculture which is less common.
temperate_climate: This causes humid continental climates to have severe temperatures for the season compared to other temperate climates, meaning a hot summer and cold winter.
temperate_climate: The other large factor is the burning of fossil fuels from buildings and vehicles.
temperate_climate: In some areas with a humid subtropical climate (most notably southeast China and North India), there is an even sharper wet-dry season, called a monsoon subtropical climate or subtropical monsoon (Cwa).
temperate_climate: The broader definition of temperate climates may include continental climates, classified as D and having more extreme temperatures, with mean temperatures in the coldest month usually being below −3 °C (26.6 °F).
temperate_climate: Therefore, they still have four marked seasons including a warmer one, but are far more influenced by the polar zones than any other but the very polar climates (tundra and ice cap climate).
temperate_climate: One factor is the strength of the absorption rate of buildings and asphalt, which is higher than that of natural land.
temperate_climate: They have characteristically mild temperatures year-round, featuring the four seasons in the subtropics and no marked seasons in the tropics, the latter usually remaining mild to cool through most of the year.
temperate_climate: Warm ocean currents are usually found in coastal areas with humid subtropical climates.
temperate_climate: Two types of climates are in this zone, a milder oceanic one and more severe seasonal continental one.
temperate_climate: This causes the climate to have mild summers and cool (but not cold) winters, and relative humidity and precipitation evenly distributed throughout the year.
temperate_climate: Because most agricultural activity occurs in the spring and summer, cold winters have a small effect on agricultural production.
temperate_climate: In geography, the temperate climates of Earth occur in the middle latitudes (approximately 23.5° to 66.5° N/S of the Equator), which span between the tropics and the polar regions of Earth.
temperate_climate: Regions with humid continental climates include southeastern Canada, the upper portions of the eastern United States, portions of eastern Europe, parts of China, Japan and the Korean Peninsula.
temperate_climate: Subpolar oceanic climates are less prone to temperature extremes than subarctic climates or continental climates, featuring milder winters than these climates but still with similar summers.
temperate_climate: Subtropical highland climates under the Cfb classification usually have rainfall spread relatively evenly in all months of the year similar to most oceanic climates while climates under the Cwb classification have significant monsoon influence, usually having dry winters and wet summers.
temperate_climate: In some climate classifications, the temperate zone may be divided into several smaller climate zones, based on monthly temperatures, the coldest month, and rainfall.
temperate_climate: The south temperate zone extends from the Tropic of Capricorn (approximately 23.5° south latitude) to the Antarctic Circle (at approximately 66.5° south latitude).
temperate_climate: These climates are frequently cloudy and cool, and winters are milder than those in the continental climate.
temperate_climate: Humid subtropical climates generally have long, hot and humid summers with frequent convective showers in summer, and a peak seasonal rainfall in the hottest months.
temperate_climate: In contrast to oceanic climates, they are created by large land masses and seasonal changes in wind direction.
temperate_climate: These factors have led to the average climate of cities to be warmer than surrounding areas.
temperate_climate: Freezing precipitation is uncommon in this part of the temperate zone.
temperate_climate: Snowfall tends to be more common here than in other oceanic climates.
temperate_climate: These can include the subtropical zone (humid subtropical and Mediterranean climate), and the cool temperate zone (oceanic and continental climates).
temperate_climate: However, some adaptations of Köppen set the minimum at 0 °C (32.0 °F).
temperate_climate: This climate is rare and is predominantly found in climate fringes and isolated areas of the Cascades and Andes Mountains, as the dry-summer climate extends further poleward in the Americas than elsewhere.
temperate_climate: Subtropical highland climates are climate variants often grouped together with oceanic climates found in some mountainous areas of either the tropics or subtropics.
temperate_climate: These zones generally have wider temperature ranges throughout the year and more distinct seasonal changes compared to tropical climates, where such variations are often small; they usually differ only in the amount of precipitation.
temperate_climate: The Köppen climate classification defines a climate as "temperate" C, when the mean temperature is above −3 °C (26.6 °F) but below 18 °C (64.4 °F) in the coldest month to account for the persistence of frost.
temperate_climate: Winters are normally mild and above freezing in the humid subtropics.
temperate_climate: Despite the maritime influence, they are classified alongside other mediterranean climates in the Köppen classification rather than oceanic climates like subtropical highland climates due to the opposite rainfall pattern.
temperate_climate: Even in the middle of summer, temperatures exceeding 20°C (68 °F) are exceptional weather events in the most maritime of those locations impacted by this regime.
temperate_climate: Some Cwa areas in southern China report more than 80% of annual precipitation in the five warmest months (southwest monsoon).
temperate_climate: In these regions, winters are quite chilly and dry and summers have very heavy rainfall.
temperate_climate: Precipitation may be evenly distributed throughout the year, while in some locations there is a summer accent on rainfall.
temperate_climate: Mediterranean climates have the opposite rainfall pattern to dry-winter climates, with a dry summer and wet winter.
temperate_climate: They are influenced more by the tropics than by other temperate climate types, usually experiencing warmer temperatures throughout the year, with longer and hotter summers and shorter, milder winters.
temperate_climate: The five main Mediterranean regions of the world are the Mediterranean basin in North Africa, Southern Europe, and West Asia, coastal California in the United States, the South and West states of Australia, the Western Cape of South Africa, and central Chile.
temperate_climate: Regions with oceanic climates include northwestern Europe, northwestern North America, southeastern and southwestern South America, southeastern Australia and most of New Zealand.
temperate_climate: This type of climate is even found in tropical areas such as the Papuan Highlands in Indonesia.
temperate_climate: Most prototypical temperate climates have a distinct four-season pattern, especially in the continental climate sector.
temperate_climate: Cfc is the categorization for this regime.
temperate_climate: In temperate climates, not only do latitudinal positions influence temperature changes, but various sea currents, prevailing wind direction, continentality (how large a landmass is) and altitude also shape temperate climates.
temperate_climate: As a result of their location, these regions tend to be on the cool end of oceanic climates.
temperate_climate: There are a couple of factors why the climate of large city landscapes differs from the climate of rural areas.
