thailand: To cover a shortage of foreign currency and investments, which had come primarily from Japan, Chavalit Yongchaiyudh's government took out a $17 billion International Monetary Fund loan in US dollars.
thailand: The crisis ended with another coup d'état in 2014.
thailand: They mixed with the existing Austro-Asiatic groups like the Mon and Khmer while absorbing their cultures and beliefs in the Chao Phraya Basin.
thailand: Folk dance forms include dance theatre forms like likay, numerous regional dances (ram), the ritual dance ram muay, and homage to the teacher, wai khru.
thailand: The largest national park of Thailand is Kaeng Krachan National Park.
thailand: as well as Muang Sua (Luang Prabang) in the east.
thailand: Sukhothai embraced Theravada Buddhism in the reign of Maha Thammaracha I (1347–1368).
thailand: Thais have median wealth per one adult person of $1,469 in 2016, increasing from $605 in 2010.
thailand: Some of the scenes are influenced by Thai folklore instead of following strict Buddhist iconography.
thailand: In his second term as Prime Minister, Phibun pursued an alliance with the United States by undertaking a campaign of domestic anti-communism, aiding the US invasion of Korea, and helping to establish the US-aligned Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO) in 1954.
thailand: Thailand is the only Southeast Asian state never to have been colonised by a Western power, in part because Britain and France agreed in 1896 to make the Chao Phraya valley a buffer state.
thailand: Ayutthaya sought to improve relations with European powers for many successive reigns.
thailand: This is down from 70% in 1980.
thailand: Vientiane was destroyed and a large number of Lao people were relocated to Khorat Plateau as a result.
thailand: After the Angkor lost Lavo to Suphannabhum princes in 1052, the younger prince Chandrachota claimed the throne.
thailand: When including the indirect effects of tourism, it is said to account for 20.2 per cent (2.4 trillion baht) of Thailand's GDP.
thailand: Many informal workers are not legally contracted for their employment, and many do not make a living wage.
thailand: During the Sukhothai Kingdom, most literary works were written in simple prose with certain alliteration schemes.
thailand: Sixty-two languages are recognised by the Royal Thai Government.
thailand: The History of Thailand.
thailand: His son, Narai I, moved Lavo's seat to Ayodhya in the 1080s.
thailand: Internal Security Operations Command is called the political arm of the Thai military, which has overlapping social and political functions with civilian bureaucracy.
thailand: For the purposes of the national census, four dialects of Thai exist; these partly coincide with regional designations, such as Southern Thai and Northern Thai.
thailand: Zawacki, Benjamin (2021).
thailand: OCLC 722730.
thailand: Siam adapted to international relations during the imperialist era and joined World War I on the side of the Allies, a political decision aimed at revising the effects of unequal treaties and enhancing Siam's international status.
thailand: This eliminated the intermediate ground, which would otherwise imply perspective.
thailand: Other forms of road transport includes tuk-tuks, taxis—with over 80,647 registered taxis nationwide as of 2018, vans (minibus), motorbike taxis, and songthaews.
thailand: Within the Bangkok Metropolitan Region, there are a number of controlled-access highways.
thailand: Tais defeated indigenous tribes and emerged as the new power in the new region.
thailand: Thai is the official language.
thailand: 1910–1925) responded by propaganda for the entirety of his reign, which promoted the idea of the Thai nation.
thailand: The reform was considered a landmark movement after nearly 100 years of education under the previous system.
thailand: Students in ethnic minority areas score consistently lower in standardised national and international tests.
thailand: In 1995, as minister of education, Sukavich Rangsitpollaid let out his plans for educational reform in Thailand.
thailand: Bronze appeared c.
thailand: Thailand is a member of the United Nations, a major non-NATO ally of the United States, and a founding member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), as well as a regional power.
thailand: Estimates of tourism receipts directly contributing to the Thai GDP of 12 trillion baht range from 9 per cent (1 trillion baht) (2013) to 16 per cent.
thailand: The three primary classical ensembles are the Piphat, Khrueang sai, and Mahori.
thailand: In the 1870s and 1880s, he incorporated the protectorates up north into the kingdom proper, which later expanded to the protectorates in the northeast and the south.
thailand: There are, however, no records detailing the arrival of the Tais.
thailand: All constitutions state that the politics is conducted within the framework of a constitutional monarchy, but the de facto form of government has ranged from military dictatorship to electoral democracy.
thailand: Wai is a familiar Thai greeting, and is generally offered first by a person who is younger or lower in social status and position.
thailand: Areas comprising what is now Thailand participated in the Maritime Jade Road, as ascertained by archeological research.
thailand: He established twelve krom in 1888, which were equivalent to present-day ministries.
thailand: The Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation and its agencies oversees the development of science, technology, and research in Thailand.
thailand: The parks are administered by the National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation Department (DNP) of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (MNRE).
thailand: Traditionally, the verse is sung during the royal barge procession and has been the model for subsequent poets to emulate.
thailand: The coalition led by Pheu Thai Party currently holds the majority.
thailand: Thailand's current form of government is part democracy and part dictatorship; many terms are used to describe it.
thailand: General Prayut continued his premiership with the support of an elected Palang Pracharath Party coalition in the House and junta-appointed Senate, despite allegations of election fraud.
thailand: As of 2025, The Bank of Thailand's economic outlook page projects Thai GDP growth of around 2.2% in 2025 and 1.6% in 2026, noting that growth in the first half of 2025 was supported by front‑loaded exports to the U.S.
thailand: During the 13th century, Tai people had already settled in the core land of Dvaravati and Lavo Kingdom to Nakhon Si Thammarat in the south.
thailand: The Royal Thai Armed Forces are among the largest military forces in Southeast Asia.
thailand: The Malay prince was married to a Khmer princess who had fled an Angkorian dynastic bloodbath.
thailand: 1997 are known for all of Thailand and constitute minimum populations.
thailand: The Tai brought the Thai language and established city-states.
thailand: The junta bound future governments to a 20-year national strategy 'road map' it laid down, effectively locking the country into military-guided democracy.
thailand: Around the tenth century, the city-states of Dvaravati merged into the mandalas of: Lavo (modern Lopburi) and Suvarnabhumi (modern Suphan Buri).
thailand: Most of Thailand experiences dry weather with mild temperatures.
thailand: Numerous tribal languages are also spoken, including many Austroasiatic languages such as Mon, Khmer, Lawa and Mlabri; Austronesian languages such as Cham, Moken and Urak Lawoi'; Sino-Tibetan languages like Akha and Karen; and other Tai languages such as Phu Thai, and Saek.
thailand: 1868–1910) initiated centralisation, set up a privy council, and abolished slavery and the corvée system.
thailand: By the Sukothai and Ayutthaya periods, Thai had developed into its own unique style and was later further influenced by the other Asian styles, mostly by Sri Lankan and Chinese.
thailand: Thailand had a population of 65.95 million on 8 Jan 2025.
thailand: Prem's premiership was often referred to as "premocracy" because it involved semi-democratic practices such as a Parliament composed of an all-elected House and an all-appointed Senate.
thailand: Before the end of the 15th century, Ayutthaya invaded the Khmer Empire three times and sacked its capital Angkor.
thailand: Thailand still use active draft system for males over the age of 21.
thailand: The capital and many of its territories lay in chaos after the war.
thailand: Non-communicable diseases form the major burden of morbidity and mortality, while infectious diseases including malaria and tuberculosis, as well as traffic accidents, are also important public health issues.
thailand: Central Intelligence Agency.
thailand: 'People's Party'), Siam transitioned from an absolute monarchy to a parliamentary constitutional monarchy and was officially renamed Thailand.
thailand: The eastern parts of the Chao Phraya valley were subjected to a more Khmer and Hindu influence as the inscriptions are found in Khmer and Sanskrit.
thailand: Thavisin was later dismissed from his prime ministerial role on 14 August 2024 by the Constitutional Court for "gross ethics violations".
thailand: In 2014, pick-ups accounted for 42% of all new vehicle sales in Thailand.
thailand: Hmong is a member of the Hmong–Mien languages, which is now regarded as a language family of its own.
thailand: Tourism makes up about 6% of the country's economy.
thailand: Lilit Yuan Phai is a narrative poem describing the war between King Borommatrailokkanat of Ayutthaya and Prince Tilokaraj of Lan Na.
thailand: Thailand's first census in 1909 found the population to be 8.2 million.
thailand: Prang Sam Yot was built during this period.
thailand: In 1939, Phibun changed the country's name from "Siam" to "Thailand".
thailand: Japan was granted free passage through Thai territory, and on 21 December Thailand and Japan signed a military alliance, with a secret protocol wherein the Japanese government agreed to help Thailand gain further territories throughout southeast Asia.
thailand: The military government faced significant resistance, with protesters frequently storming government buildings and elements within the military threatening yet another coup.
thailand: The King intervened in the event, granting amnesty to the belligerents and forcing the resignation of Suchinda.
thailand: His rule from 1959 to 1963 was autocratic; he built his legitimacy around the god-like status of the monarch and by channelling the government and public's loyalty to the king.
thailand: Most of the vehicles built in Thailand are developed and licensed by foreign producers, mainly Japanese and American.
thailand: Poaching of protected species remains a major problem.
thailand: Thailand: A Survival Guide to Customs and Etiquette.
thailand: Shutter (2004) was one of the best-known Thai horror movies and was recognised worldwide.
thailand: After the 2014 coup, Thailand leaned more towards China.
thailand: According to Michel Ferlus, the ethnonyms Thai-Tai (or Thay-Tay) would have evolved from the etymon *k(ə)ri: 'human being'.
thailand: Several ethnic groups mediated change between their traditional local culture, national Thai, and global cultural influences.
thailand: Thailand ranks world's sixth, and Asia's first in the 2019 Global Health Security Index of global health security capabilities in 195 countries, making it the only developing country on the world's top ten.
thailand: Thailand has developed increasingly close ties with other members, with progressing regional co-operation in economic, trade, banking, political, and cultural matters.
thailand: Thailand is a leading exporter of rice, and Thais consume over 100 kg of milled rice per person per year.
thailand: In 1989, the government banned the use of elephants for logging, leading many elephant owners to move their domesticated animals to the tourism industry.
thailand: The former name Siam may have originated from Sanskrit श्याम (śyāma, 'dark') or Mon ရာမည (rhmañña, 'stranger'), probably the same root as Shan and Assam.
thailand: Phuket, Krabi, Ranong, Phang Nga and Trang, and their islands, all lay along the coasts of the Andaman Sea.
thailand: They cover almost 31 per cent of the kingdom's territory.
thailand: Asian tourists primarily visit Thailand for Bangkok and the historical, natural, and cultural sights in its vicinity.
thailand: Dvaravati culture lost its influence around the tenth century when they submitted to the more unified Lavo-Khmer polity.
thailand: The Palace Revolt of 1912 was a failed attempt by Western-educated military officers to overthrow the Siamese monarchy.
thailand: Some academics outside Thailand, including Duncan McCargo and Federico Ferrara, noted extraconstitutional role of the monarch through a "network monarchy" behind the political scenes.
thailand: Tambralinga, a Malay state controlling trade through the Malacca Strait, rose in the 10th century.
thailand: In 2016, Thailand was ranked 87th in Human Development Index, and 70th in the inequality-adjusted HDI.
thailand: Varieties of Chinese are also spoken by the large Thai Chinese population, with the Teochew dialect best-represented.
thailand: Campaigns promote Thailand as exotic to attract tourists.
thailand: The country receives a mean annual rainfall of 1,200 to 1,600 mm (47 to 63 in).
thailand: In Bangkok, there were two failed rapid rail projects Lavalin Skytrain and Bangkok Elevated Road and Train System, before Mass Rapid Transit Master Plan in Bangkok Metropolitan Region was endorsed by the cabinet on 27 September 1994 and implemented from 1995 to the present.
thailand: He also quickly subdued the other warlords.
thailand: One estimate published in 2003 placed the trade at US$4.3 billion per year or about 3% of the Thai economy.
thailand: It is estimated that between 1988 and 1995, the number of factory workers in the country doubled from two to four million, as Thailand's GDP tripled.
thailand: Its prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra governed from 2001 until 2006.
thailand: The standard is based on the dialect of the central Thai people, and it is written in the Thai alphabet, an abugida script that evolved from the Khmer alphabet.
thailand: After the general election of 2011, the populist Pheu Thai Party won a majority.
thailand: Following the Siamese revolution of 1932 by the Khana Ratsadon (lit.
thailand: Thailand television dramas, known as Lakorn, have become popular in Thailand and regionally.
thailand: Increasing numbers of migrants from neighbouring Myanmar, Laos, and Cambodia, as well as from Nepal and India, have pushed the total number of non-national residents to around 3.5 million as of 2009, up from an estimated 2 million in 2008.
thailand: The powers of the king are limited by the constitution and he is primarily a symbolic figurehead.
thailand: National parks in Thailand are defined as an area that contains natural resources of ecological importance or unique beauty, or flora and fauna of special importance.
thailand: Thailand's recovery from the 1997–1998 Asian financial crisis depended mainly on exports, among various other factors.
thailand: Critics observed that Thai military's main objective is to deal with internal rather than external threats.
thailand: In December 2018, the interim parliament voted to legalise the use of cannabis for medical reasons, making Thailand the first Southeast Asian country to allow the use of medical cannabis.
thailand: An attempt to re-expand influence to Lavo by the Angkor occurred in 1181 when Jayavarman VII appointed his lineage Narupatidnavarman to govern Lavapura.
thailand: This was spread nationwide by the Phibun regime to assimilate the ethnic groups in the 1940s.
thailand: To satisfy the conditions of the loan, Thailand underwent a series of austerity measures until the loan was repaid in 2003.
thailand: London, Ellen (2008).
thailand: The kingdom lasted for another 93 years.
thailand: This ranks Thailand among countries with ultra-low fertility rates.
thailand: In the late tenth century, Tai people began to migrate further south to the present-day upper central Thailand.
thailand: This was soon followed by a military coup that installed Phraya Phahon – a leader of the 1932 revolution – as Prime Minister.
thailand: After the fall of Ayutthaya, King Taksin reunified the kingdom and established the Thonburi Kingdom, which lasted only 15 years before he was overthrown by Phutthayotfa Chulalok (Rama I), the founder of the Chakri dynasty.
thailand: Major works include King Ram Khamhaeng Inscription describing life at the time, which is considered the first literary work in Thai script, but some historians questioned its authenticity.
thailand: This period of Liberal rule was brief, with Phibun launching another military coup to take power in 1947.
thailand: In May 2023, Thailand's reformist opposition – the progressive Move Forward Party (MFP) and Thaksin's populist Pheu Thai Party – won the general election, ending 9 years of royalist-military rule under Prayut.
thailand: Thailand is a unitary state; the administrative services of the executive branch are divided into three levels by National Government Organisation Act, BE 2534 (1991): central, provincial and local.
thailand: On 11 February 2014, the stadium was relocated to Ram Intra Road due to the new venue's capacity.
thailand: tariffs bite.
thailand: The country is popular for the growing practice of sex reassignment surgery (SRS) and cosmetic surgery.
thailand: The Free Thai Movement was launched both in Thailand and abroad to oppose the Thai government and Japanese occupation.
thailand: International rankings of Thailand
Outline of Thailand
thailand: During the era of Western imperialism, Siam remained the only country in Southeast Asia to avoid colonisation by European powers, although it ceded territory, trade rights, and legal privileges through several unequal treaties.
thailand: Forty-nine per cent of Thailand's labour force is employed in agriculture.
thailand: These factors culminated in the Thammasat University massacre in October 1976, in which police and right-wing mobs massacred students protesting the return of Thanom Kittikachorn to Thai politics.
thailand: It is believed that at least 10% of tourist dollars are spent on the sex trade.
thailand: Rice is the most important crop in the country and Thailand had long been the world's leading exporter of rice, until recently falling behind both India and Vietnam.
thailand: Thailand is one of the five founding members of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), initially to safeguard against communism.
thailand: It is alleged that conscripts end up as servants to senior officers or clerks in military cooperative shops.
thailand: Military strongman Plaek Phibunsongkhram, often known as "Phibun", became premier in 1938 and launched a campaign of political repression that saw the execution of both Monarchists and pro-democracy Liberals.
thailand: Thailand's climate is influenced by monsoon winds that have a seasonal character (the southwest and northeast monsoon).
thailand: They also use the more colloquial term mueang Thai (Thai: เมืองไทย) or simply Thai; the word mueang, archaically referring to a city-state, is commonly used to refer to a city or town as the centre of a region.
thailand: Rajamangala National Stadium is the biggest sporting arena in Thailand, with a capacity of around 50,000.
thailand: The crisis of 1893 erupted, caused by French demands for Laotian territory east of Mekong.
thailand: "Uniformed or ex-military men have led Thailand for 55 of the 83 years" between 1932 and 2009.
thailand: Cram schools are especially popular for university entrance exams.
thailand: Thailand, officially the Kingdom of Thailand, and formerly known as Siam until 1939, is a country located in Mainland Southeast Asia.
thailand: Free elections were once again held in September 1992, bringing the neoliberal Democrat Party to power.
thailand: The Chao Phraya and the Mekong River are the indispensable water courses of rural Thailand.
thailand: There were 26.9 million persons who had the bottom 40% of income earning less than ฿5,344 per person per month.
thailand: Currently, Thailand is recognised as a developing country and holds significant geopolitical importance in Southeast Asia.
thailand: The Kingdom of Funan was the first and most powerful Southeast Asian kingdom at the time (2nd century BCE).
thailand: Then a brief period of vassalage to Burma until Naresuan proclaimed independence in 1584 followed.
thailand: As of 2024, Thailand struggles with low productivity, poor education, high household debt, low private investment and slow economic growth, with an economic research group forecasted an annual GDP growth of below 2% in the next decades without structural reforms.
thailand: European contact and trade started in the early-16th century, with the envoy of Portuguese duke Afonso de Albuquerque in 1511.
thailand: They were: tom yam goong (4th), pad Thai (5th), som tam (6th), massaman curry (10th), green curry (19th), Thai fried rice (24th) and nam tok mu (36th).
thailand: Thailand's national religion, Theravada Buddhism, is central to modern Thai identity.
thailand: The Indochina peninsula was heavily influenced by the culture and religions of India from the time of the Kingdom of Funan to that of the Khmer Empire.
thailand: He then fled to Vieng Si Tuang (เวียงศรีทวง; present-day Wiang Phang Kham, Mae Sai district) but had to send tributes to Yonok annually until his son, Phrom, took back Yonok and expelled King Khom from Umongasela.
thailand: Poachers have long hunted elephants for ivory and hides, and now increasingly for meat.
thailand: Between 1962 and 1983, the agricultural sector grew by 4.1% per year on average and continued to grow at 2.2% between 1983 and 2007.
thailand: Thus Thai culture was influenced by Indian, Mon, and Khmer cultures.
thailand: They also directly supported 86,600 jobs.
thailand: OCLC 1312080896.
thailand: Those who have completed three years or more of reserve training will be exempted entirely.
thailand: Thailand has also faced border tensions from the 2008–2011 Cambodian–Thai border crisis extending to the 2025 Cambodia–Thailand border crisis involving territorial disputes and military clashes.
thailand: Under Rama I (1782–1809), Rattanakosin successfully defended against Burmese attacks and put an end to Burmese incursions.
thailand: Massive protests against Thaksin led by the reactionary People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD) started in his second term as prime minister, and the monarchy and the military eventually agreed to oust him.
thailand: The World Factbook (2025 ed.).
thailand: In October 1973, a popular democratic uprising against the Thanom government began to bring about an end to Thailand's military regime.
thailand: The Thailand national football team has played the AFC Asian Cup six times and reached the semifinals in 1972.
thailand: The Lumpinee Boxing Stadium originally sited at Rama IV Road near Lumphini Park hosted its final Muay Thai boxing matches on 8 February 2014 after the venue first opened in December 1956.
thailand: The environmental areas where Thailand performs worst (i.e., highest-ranking) are air quality (167), environmental effects of the agricultural industry (106), and the climate and energy sector (93), the later mainly because of a high CO2 emission per kWh produced.
thailand: The armed forces are managed by the Ministry of Defence of Thailand, which is headed by the Minister of Defence (a member of the cabinet of Thailand) and commanded by the Royal Thai Armed Forces Headquarters, which in turn is headed by the Chief of Defence Forces of Thailand.
thailand: The Thai National Anthem (Thai: เพลงชาติ), written by Luang Saranupraphan during the patriotic 1930s, refers to the Thai nation as prathet Thai (Thai: ประเทศไทย).
thailand: After the war ended in 1945, Phibun was ousted and Thailand signed formal agreements to end the state of war with the Allies.
thailand: There is evidence of continuous human habitation in present-day Thailand from 20,000 years ago to the present day.
thailand: His dynasty would rule the kingdom continuously for the next two centuries.
thailand: "Thailand".
thailand: The number of international degree students in Thailand increased by 9.7 times between 1999 and 2012, from 1,882 to 20,309 students.
thailand: The Portuguese were followed in the 17th century by the French, Dutch, and English.
thailand: The governance system evolved into an absolute monarchy centralised under the rule of King Chulalongkorn (Rama V).
thailand: In 1917, Siam joined the First World War on the side of the Allies.
thailand: To accommodate foreign visitors, a separate tourism police with offices were set up in the major tourist areas and an emergency telephone number.
thailand: A British mission led by Sir John Bowring, Governor of Hong Kong, led to the signing of the Bowring Treaty, the first of many unequal treaties with Western countries.
thailand: The region hosting the fewest tourists is Isan.
thailand: The staple food in Thailand is rice, particularly jasmine rice, which forms part of almost every meal.
thailand: In 1933, Prime Minister Phraya Mano led a counter-revolutionary rebellion to reinstate an absolute monarchy under Prajadhipok.
thailand: Chinese chronicles first mention the Tai peoples in the 6th century BCE.
thailand: Another military coup the following year installed a more moderate military government, which offered amnesty to some Communist fighters in 1978.
thailand: It is a major non-NATO ally and Priority Watch List Special 301 Report of the United States.
thailand: Iron appeared around 500 BCE.
thailand: In 2012, it was estimated that informal workers comprised 62.6% of the Thai workforce.
thailand: Young elephants are often captured for use in tourist attractions or as work animals, where there have been claims of mistreatment.
thailand: Thai social security policies fail to protect against workplace accidents and unemployment and retirement insurance.
thailand: Scholars argue that the economic consequences and social costs of Thailand's labour reforms in the wake of the 1997 Asian financial crisis fell on individuals and families rather than the state.
thailand: ISBN 978-1-138-55841-0.
thailand: However, Thaksin was viewed by opponents among the Thai upper and upper middle classes as a corrupt populist who was destroying the middle class in order to favour himself and the rural poor.
thailand: Southern Thailand is characterised by mild weather year-round with less diurnal and seasonal variations in temperatures due to maritime influences.
thailand: Now, more than 20% of its population is aged over 60 and has a low birth rate, posing economic challenges.
thailand: After the coup, a military government was installed for one year.
thailand: The primary technique of composition is that of apportioning areas: the main elements are isolated from each other by space transformers.
thailand: Thailand exports over US$105 billion worth of goods and services annually.
thailand: Traditional Thai sculpture almost exclusively depicts images of the Buddha, being very similar to the other styles from Southeast Asia.
thailand: The legislative branch: the National Assembly is composed of the Senate, the 200-member indirectly elected upper house and House of Representatives, the elected 500-member lower house.
thailand: The Mon people established the principalities of Dvaravati and Kingdom of Hariphunchai in the 6th century.
thailand: In response to mass killings of protesters, King Bhumibol installed Sanya Dharmasakti as Prime Minister, marking the first time that the king had intervened in Thai politics directly since 1932.
thailand: Most recently, the military junta self-titled as the National Council for Peace and Order ruled the country between 2014 and 2019.
thailand: The Ayutthaya Kingdom flourished until its complete destruction during the 1765–1767 Burmese–Siamese War by the Burmese forces under the Konbaung dynasty in 1767.
thailand: The aftermath of the event marked a short-lived parliamentary democracy, often called the "era when democracy blossomed" (ยุคประชาธิปไตยเบ่งบาน).
thailand: The State Railway of Thailand (SRT) operates all of Thailand's national rail lines.
thailand: Siam's and Thailand's way of conducting foreign relations has long been described as "bamboo bending with the wind", of policies that are "always solidly rooted, but flexible enough to bend whichever way the wind blows in order to survive", or adaptable and pragmatic.
thailand: Thailand ranked 16th worldwide in the Military Strength Index based on the Credit Suisse report in September 2015.
thailand: Indigenous ethnic groups include the Mon, Khmer, and Malay people.
thailand: In the aftermath, Siam had a seat at the Paris Peace Conference and gained freedom of taxation and the revocation of extraterritoriality.
thailand: It is the principal language of education and government and spoken throughout the country.
thailand: The executive branch consisting of the Prime Minister of Thailand, the head of government, and other cabinet members of up to 35 people.
thailand: In June 1946, King Ananda was found dead under mysterious circumstances, and his younger brother Bhumibol Adulyadej ascended to the throne.
thailand: The crisis peaked in 2005 with a series of controversies surrounding Buddhist and monarchic institutions, and the army dissolved Thaksin's party with a coup d'état in 2006 and banned over a hundred of its executives from politics.
thailand: Rugby is also a growing sport in Thailand with the Thailand national rugby union team rising to be ranked 61st in the world.
thailand: In the first quarter of 2023, Thai household debts totalled 14.6 trillion baht or 89.2% of GDP; the average debt per household was approximately 500,000 baht.
thailand: The earliest evidence of rice growing is dated at 2,000 BCE.
thailand: In 2019, Thailand received 39.8 million international tourists, ahead of United Kingdom and Germany and was the fourth highest in international tourism earning 60.5 billion US dollars.
thailand: Between 1993 and 1995, ten per cent of the Thai labour force moved from the agricultural sector to urban and industrial jobs, especially in the manufacturing sector.
thailand: As of 2012, Thailand has 103 airports with 63 paved runways, in addition to 6 heliports.
thailand: The current constitutional structure still allows de facto political influence by the Royal Thai Armed Forces.
thailand: It is a Kra–Dai language closely related to Lao, Shan in Myanmar, and numerous smaller languages spoken in an arc from Hainan and Yunnan south to the Chinese border.
thailand: The Royal Thai Armed Forces (กองทัพไทย; RTGS: Kong Thap Thai) constitute the military of the Kingdom of Thailand.
thailand: After Chenla sieged Funan and moved the centre to Angkor, both Siamese and the Angkorian eventually marched the troops to attack Vijaya of Champa in 1201 during the reign of Jayavarman VII, as recorded in the Cho-Dinh inscription (C.3).
thailand: Active participation in Buddhism is among the highest in the world.
thailand: Anouvong of Vientiane, who mistakenly held the belief that Britain was about to launch an invasion of Bangkok, started the Lao rebellion in 1826, which was suppressed.
thailand: The signature of King Mongkut (r.
thailand: Muay Thai became widespread internationally in the late-20th to 21st centuries.
thailand: Rainfall is also contributed by Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) and tropical cyclones, with August and September being the wettest period of the year.
thailand: Lan Na expanded its territory southward and annexed the Mon Hariphunchai of Dvaravati in 1292.
thailand: Lonely Planet's Best of Thailand.
thailand: The crisis brought on the ascendancy of the populist Thai Rak Thai party, whose base consisted primarily of indebted rural workers.
thailand: Thai annual defence budget almost tripled from US$1.98 billion in 2005 to US$5.88 billion in 2016, accounting for approximately 1.4% of GDP.
thailand: In his final years there was a coup, supposedly caused by his "insanity", and eventually Taksin and his sons were executed by his longtime companion General Chao Phraya Chakri (the future Rama I).
thailand: The remaining 4.1% of the population are Burmese (2.0%), others (1.3%), and unspecified (0.9%).
thailand: Thailand has a population of nearly 66 million people and covers an area of approximately 513,115 km2 (198,115 sq mi).
thailand: OCLC 1232148433.
thailand: According to George Cœdès, the word Thai (ไทย) means 'free man' in the Thai language, "differentiating the Thai from the natives encompassed in Thai society as serfs".
thailand: Thailand has had the fourth-most coups in the world.
thailand: Military and bureaucratic aristocrats fully controlled political parties between 1946 and the 1980s.
thailand: Volleyball is rapidly growing as one of the most popular sports.
thailand: The country's capital and largest city is Bangkok.
thailand: This resulted in the throne of Lavo's Lavaburi being vacant from 1087 to 1106 (or ruled by unknown kings), Si Satchanalai king, Kesariraja who is of Mon's Chaliang and Tai's Chiang Saen lineages, took over the seat.
thailand: The current King of Thailand is Vajiralongkorn (Rama X), who has reigned since October 2016.
thailand: About 55% of the arable land area is used for rice production.
thailand: Thais often refer to their country using the polite form prathet Thai (Thai: ประเทศไทย).
thailand: Sunthorn Phu is best known for his epic poem Phra Aphai Mani, a versified fantasy-adventure novel, a genre of Siamese literature known as nithan kham klon (Thai: นิทานคำกลอน).
thailand: As of 2012, the Thai automotive industry was the largest in Southeast Asia and the 9th largest in the world.
thailand: One of the coup leaders, Suchinda Kraprayoon, was nominated as prime minister for the majority coalition government after the March 1992 general election.
thailand: The Burmese under the new Alaungpaya dynasty quickly rose to become a new local power by 1759.
thailand: Its maritime boundaries include the Gulf of Thailand and the Andaman Sea, as well as maritime borders with Vietnam, Indonesia, and India.
thailand: Marshall Cavendish Editions.
thailand: Phrom also marched the troops south to occupy Chakangrao from the enemy as well as founding the city of Songkwae.
thailand: Association football has overtaken Muay Thai as the most widely followed sport in Thailand.
thailand: Modern absolute monarchy and statehood was established by Chulalongkorn when he transformed the decentralised protectorate system into a unitary state.
thailand: He later crowned himself the first king of Sukhothai Kingdom in 1238.
thailand: The monarchy is protected by the severe lèse majesté law, even though the people's attitude towards the institution varies from one reign to another.
thailand: The armed wing of Khana Ratsadon gradually came to dominate Siamese politics.
thailand: Moore, Frank J., ed.
thailand: Genetic evidences suggested that ethnolinguistics could not accurately predict the origins of the Thais.
thailand: Field Marshal Sarit Thanarat took power by coup in 1957, and he proceeded to reverse Phibun's democratic reforms and ban the Khana Ratsadon party from politics.
thailand: Christians represented 1.13% of the population in 2018, with the remaining population consisting of Hindus and Sikhs, who live mostly in the country's cities.
thailand: Mahori employ small ching hand cymbals.
thailand: Thailand has the highest percentage of arable land, 27.25%, of any state in the Greater Mekong Subregion.
thailand: The Sarit and Thanom periods coincided with significant modernisation and Westernisation of Thai society.
thailand: High public spending, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, prompted the authorities to raise Thailand's public debt ceiling from 60% to 70% of GDP.
thailand: Around 1240, Pho Khun Bang Klang Hao, a local Tai ruler, rallied the people to rebel against the Khmer.
thailand: Twenty million Central Thai (together with approximately 650,000 Khorat Thai) made up approximately 20,650,000 (34.1 per cent) of the state's population of 60,544,937 at the time of completion of the Mahidol University Ethnolinguistic Maps of Thailand data (1997).
thailand: This caused a popular demonstration in Bangkok, which ended with a bloody military crackdown known as Black May.
thailand: Even before the establishment of the Sukhothai Kingdom there existed oral and written works.
thailand: The relative contribution of agriculture to GDP has declined while exports of goods and services have increased.
thailand: Phibun was an admirer of Benito Mussolini, and he imposed twelve Thai cultural mandates requiring citizens to obey nationalist norms such as saluting the flag, knowing the national anthem, speaking only Thai, and wearing Western clothing.
thailand: Tai people intermixed with various ethnic and cultural groups in the region, resulting in many groups of present-day Thai people.
thailand: However, the monarch still occasionally intervenes in Thai politics, as all constitutions pave the way for customary royal rulings.
thailand: After a 14-month siege, the capital city's walls fell and the city was burned in April 1767.
thailand: The Thailand national basketball team had its most successful year at the 1966 Asian Games where it won the silver medal.
thailand: It receives abundant rainfall, particularly during October to November.
thailand: The current prime minister is Anutin Charnvirakul, a member of the Bhumjaithai Party.
thailand: Sepak takraw is a form of this sport which is similar to volleyball.
thailand: It also has anti-democracy mission.
thailand: Thailand became the first country in the world to host an international 80 welterweight rugby tournament in 2005.
thailand: During the 2013–2014 Thai political crisis, a survey found that anti-government PDRC mostly (32%) had a monthly income of more than ฿50,000, while pro-government UDD mostly (27%) had between ฿10,000 and ฿20,000.
thailand: Etymologically, its components are: ratcha (Sanskrit: राजन्, rājan, 'king, royal, realm'), ana- (Pali āṇā 'authority, command, power', itself from the Sanskrit आज्ञा, ājñā, of the same meaning), and -chak (from Sanskrit चक्र cakra- 'wheel', a symbol of power and rule).
thailand: In 2019, the junta agreed to schedule a general election.
thailand: The prevalent culture of Central Thailand formed the basis of the modern Thai identity.
thailand: In April 2009, the 2008–2013 Cambodian–Thai border crisis brought troops on territory immediately adjacent to the 900-year-old ruins of Cambodia's Preah Vihear Hindu temple near the border.
thailand: Nearly all is single-track (2702.1 km), although some important sections around Bangkok are double (1,234.9 km or 767.3 mi) or triple-tracked (107 km or 66 mi), and there are plans to extend this.
thailand: European contact began in 1511 CE when Portuguese envoys arrived in Ayutthaya.
thailand: The country is also one of the few that still mandates uniform up to the university years, which is still a subject of ongoing debate.
thailand: Thailand's population is largely rural, concentrated in the rice-growing areas of the central, northeastern, and northern regions.
thailand: In particular, it is highly vulnerable to rising sea levels and extreme weather events.
thailand: Tigers, leopards, and other large cats are hunted for their pelts.
thailand: Rail transport in Bangkok includes long-distance services.
thailand: The first line of the national anthem is: prathet thai ruam lueat nuea chat chuea thai (Thai: ประเทศไทยรวมเลือดเนื้อชาติเชื้อไทย), 'Thailand is founded on blood and flesh'.
thailand: 1279–1298).
thailand: Thailand comprises several distinct geographic regions, partly corresponding to the provincial groups.
thailand: Vajiravudh (r.
thailand: Cornell University Library.
thailand: The referendum and adoption of Thailand's current constitution happened under the junta's rule.
thailand: Not until the 20th century could Siam renegotiate every unequal treaty dating from the Bowring Treaty, including extraterritoriality.
thailand: For example, the capital of Chiang Mai Province (Changwat Chiang Mai) is Mueang Chiang Mai or Chiang Mai.
thailand: According to the most widely accepted version of its origin, the Ayutthaya Kingdom rose from the earlier, nearby Lavo Kingdom and Suvarnabhumi with Uthong as its first king.
thailand: Thai Chinese businesses prosper as part of the larger bamboo network.
thailand: The most frequent narrative subjects for paintings were or are: the Jataka stories, episodes from the life of the Buddha, the Buddhist heavens and hells, themes derived from the Thai versions of the Ramayana and Mahabharata, and scenes of daily life.
thailand: Most parties in Thailand are short-lived.
thailand: In 2022, Thailand's oil and gas production dropped by 19% and 17%, respectively.
thailand: Ratcha Anachak Thai (Thai: ราชอาณาจักรไทย) means 'kingdom of Thailand' or 'kingdom of Thai'.
thailand: The advent of the monthon system marked the creation of the modern Thai nation-state.
thailand: Thailand had more dishes on the list than any other country.
thailand: The Customs of Cambodia of Zhou Daguan, as an official delegation sent by the Yuan dynasty to Angkor from 1296 to 1297, says the Siamese people exerted significant influence over Lavo's Lavapura and appeared in huge numbers in the Angkorian capital of Yaśodharapura.
thailand: Nowadays it includes many regional beliefs originating from Hinduism, animism, as well as ancestor worship.
thailand: His policies were successful in reducing rural poverty and providing universal healthcare.
thailand: Totalling 513,120 square kilometres (198,120 sq mi), Thailand is the 50th-largest country by total area.
thailand: The Thai government then declared war on the United States and the United Kingdom.
thailand: In 2022, Thailand's export of goods is worth roughly US$290 billion while its import worth roughly US$305 billion.
thailand: According to Chit Phumisak, Thai (ไท) simply means 'people' or 'human being'; his investigation shows that some rural areas used the word "Thai" instead of the usual Thai word khon (คน) for people.
thailand: According to a legend in the Northern Chronicles, in 903, a king of Tambralinga invaded and took Lavo and installed a Malay prince on the Lavo throne.
thailand: The top 1% held 58% of the assets.
thailand: All provincial governors and district chiefs, which are administrators of provinces and districts respectively, are appointed by the central government.
thailand: The Sukhothai Kingdom is regarded as the beginning of Thai history, while the Ayutthaya Kingdom, founded in 1350 CE, became a regional power replacing the Khmer Empire.
thailand: 1424–1448).
thailand: Thailand has also attracts golfers from Japan, Korea, and Western countries.
thailand: Muay Thai (lit.
thailand: Films such as Ong-Bak: Muay Thai Warrior (2003) and Tom-Yum-Goong (2005), starring Tony Jaa, feature distinctive aspects of Thai martial arts "Muay Thai".
thailand: Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin's younger sister, became prime minister.
thailand: It consists of the Royal Thai Army (กองทัพบกไทย), the Royal Thai Navy (กองทัพเรือไทย), and the Royal Thai Air Force (กองทัพอากาศไทย).
thailand: Parts of the south also have a tropical rainforest climate.
thailand: The Ayutthaya Kingdom movement is designed to display might and riches.
thailand: He was succeeded by Thaksin's daughter Paetongtarn Shinawatra, who spent a year in office before the Constitutional Court ordered her removal over a controversial phone call with Cambodia's president.
thailand: The Thai car industry takes advantage of the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) to find a market for many of its products.
thailand: Thailand's total fertility rate declined to 1.0 in 2024.
thailand: While there are many assumptions regarding the origin of Tai peoples, David K.
thailand: He is believed have invented Thai script and Thai ceramics were an important export in his era.
thailand: The site of Ban Chiang in northeast Thailand currently ranks as the earliest known centre of copper and bronze production in Southeast Asia.
thailand: Its seat was moved to Chiang Mai in 1262 by King Mangrai, which considered the foundation of the Lan Na kingdom.
thailand: Although such trade is illegal, the well-known Bangkok market Chatuchak is still known for the sale of endangered species.
thailand: Its most recent election is the 2023 general election.
thailand: Some historians suggest that Lavo's capital, Lopburi, was once seized by Phrom.
thailand: The population of elephants, the country's national symbol, has fallen from 100,000 in 1850 to an estimated 2,000.
thailand: The largest of Thailand's minority languages is the Lao dialect of Isan spoken in the northeastern provinces.
thailand: The 50 richest Thai families had a total net worth accounting to 30% of GDP.
thailand: Thailand joined the US-led invasion of Iraq, sending a humanitarian contingent until September 2004.
thailand: Archaeological evidence indicates that humans have inhabited the area of present-day Thailand for at least 40,000 years.
thailand: A hereditary monarch serves as Thailand's head of state.
thailand: On 22 August 2023, Srettha Thavisin of the Pheu Thai party became Thailand's new prime minister, while the ex-PM and party figurehead Thaksin Shinawatra returned to Thailand after years in self-imposed exile from the military regime.
thailand: Summer or the pre-monsoon season runs from mid-February until mid-May.
thailand: Traditional Thai paintings usually consist of book illustrations, and painted ornamentation of buildings such as palaces and temples.
thailand: The system of government was a network of tributaries ruled by local lords.
thailand: Two desserts were also listed in CNN's 50 Best Desserts Around The World: mango sticky rice and tub tim krob.
thailand: Buddhist temples in Thailand are known as "wats", from the Pāḷi vāṭa, meaning an enclosure: a temple has an enclosing wall that divides it from the secular world.
thailand: During the Cold War, Thailand became a key major non-NATO ally of the United States and played a major role in countering communism in the Korean War, the Vietnam War, and other proxy wars.
thailand: Borommatrailokkanat brought about bureaucratic reforms which lasted into the 20th century and created a system of social hierarchy called sakdina, where male commoners were conscripted as corvée labourers for six months a year.
thailand: Sujit Wongthes argued that Thai is not a race or ethnicity but a culture group.
thailand: Thailand functions as an anchor economy for the neighbouring developing economies of Laos, Myanmar, and Cambodia.
thailand: Older siblings have duties to younger ones.
thailand: The temples in Ayutthaya seldom built eaves stretching from the masterhead.
thailand: In 2017, seven Thai dishes appeared on a list of the "World's 50 Best Foods"—an online worldwide poll by CNN Travel.
thailand: Each region of Thailand has its specialities: kaeng khiao wan (green curry) in the central region, som tam (green papaya salad) in the northeast, khao soi in the north, and massaman curry in the south.
thailand: It is believed that the Dvaravati borrowed Theravada Buddhism through its contacts with Sri Lanka, while the ruling class participated in Hindu rites.
thailand: In the third quarter of 2014, the unemployment rate in Thailand stood at 0.84% according to Thailand's National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB).
thailand: As of 2017, Thailand has over 462,133 roads and 37 million registered vehicles, 20 million of them motorbikes.
thailand: Thailand was the most visited country in Southeast Asia in 2013, according to the World Tourism Organisation.
thailand: Bangkok is at provincial level and thus often counted as a province.
thailand: In 2007, a civilian government led by the Thaksin-aligned People's Power Party (PPP) was elected.
thailand: Prajadhipok's conflict with the government eventually led to his abdication, and the new military-led government selected Switzerland-raised Ananda Mahidol to be the new king.
thailand: Thailand: Its People, Its Society, Its Culture.
thailand: There were also verse recitals with musical accompaniment, such as Mahori telling the story of Kaki and Sepha, relating the story of Khun Chang Khun Phaen.
thailand: Dvaravati art, including the Buddha sculptures and stupas, showed strong similarities to those of the Gupta Empire of India.
thailand: The proportion of the poor relative to total population in each region was 12.96% in the Northeast, 12.35% in the South, and 9.83% in the North.
thailand: In 2017, Thailand's median household income was ฿26,946 per month.
thailand: Right-wing fears of a Communist takeover of Thailand grew following the captures of South Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos by Communist insurgents.
thailand: The official calendar in Thailand is based on the Eastern version of the Buddhist Era (BE).
thailand: In 2016, Thailand had 1.2 global hectares of biocapacity per person within its territory, a little less than world average of 1.6 global hectares per person.
thailand: Thailand is the 75th most peaceful country in the world, according to the 2024 Global Peace Index.
thailand: The country has hosted the Asian Cup twice, in 1972 and in 2007 (along with Indonesia, Malaysia, and Vietnam for the 2007).
thailand: As a result, several Tai city-states were established, scattered from Điện Biên Phủ in present-day northwestern Vietnam and highland Southeast Asia to northeastern India.
thailand: Theoretically, Tai-Kadai-speaking people formed as early as the 12th century BCE in the middle of the Yangtze basin.
thailand: Thaksin also faced crises in the form of the South Thailand insurgency, which escalated starting from 2004, and the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami which claimed around 8,000 lives in Thailand.
thailand: The majority of the south, as well as the eastern tip, have a tropical monsoon climate.
thailand: In 1821, Briton John Crawfurd was sent to negotiate a new trade agreement with Siam – the first sign of an issue which was to dominate 19th century Siamese politics.
thailand: Islam is concentrated mostly in the country's southernmost provinces: Pattani, Yala, Satun, Narathiwat, and part of Songkhla, which are predominantly Malay, most of whom are Sunni Muslims.
thailand: Bloomsbury.
thailand: Thailand Country Fact Sheet from the Common Language Project (archived 31 July 2014)
Southeast Asia Visions.
thailand: Thai culture and traditions incorporate influences from India, China, Cambodia, and the rest of Southeast Asia.
thailand: It is common to find a combination of different poetic forms in one poetic work.
thailand: King Ramkhamhaeng's reign (1279-1298) marked the inception of a unified Thai identity and Sukhothai as a pivotal kingdom in the region.
thailand: There have been no widespread reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.
thailand: The Thailand industry has an annual output of near 1.5 million vehicles, mostly commercial vehicles.
thailand: Due to this political pressure, a Tai ruler Sri Thammasokkarat
(ศรีธรรมโศกราช), who was also from Si Satchanalai, fled to Nakhon Si Thammarat.
thailand: These conditions spurred on the bloodless Siamese revolution of 1932, in which the Khana Ratsadon movement forced King Prajadhipok to sign the country's first constitution, thereby ending centuries of feudal and absolute monarchy.
thailand: The military is also tasked with humanitarian missions, such as escorting Rohingya to Malaysia or Indonesia, ensuring security and welfare for refugees during Indochina refugee crisis.
thailand: The ancient Thai identity originates from the Tai-speaking groups who migrated from southern China to Southeast Asia in 6th to 11th century.
thailand: As part of its effort to increase international ties, Thailand had reached out to such regional organisations as the Organization of American States (OAS) and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).
thailand: Mangrai unified the surrounding area and also created a network of states through political alliances to the east and north of the Mekong.
thailand: Thailand has the second highest number of English-medium private international schools in Southeast Asian Nations.
thailand: The military is deeply entrenched in politics.
thailand: In 2016, there were estimated 30,000 homeless persons in the country.
thailand: During the early 20th century, archaeological excavations led by George Coedès found Nakhon Pathom Province to be a centre of Dvaravati culture.
thailand: Some examples are Nirat Rop Phama Thi Tha Din Daeng, Phleng Yao Rop Phama Thi Nakhon Si Thammarat.
thailand: Power was partially ceded to a democratic government, but it would not last a year before the rise of significant military influence in Thai political affairs.
thailand: Bangkok also waged several wars with Vietnam, where Siam successfully regained hegemony over Cambodia.
thailand: Muslims constitute the second largest religious group in Thailand, comprising 5.37% of the population in 2018.
thailand: The neoliberal government's attempt to peg the Thai baht to the United States dollar induced the 1997 Asian financial crisis, crashing regional economies and ending nearly 40 years of uninterrupted economic growth in Thailand.
thailand: Ayutthaya was interested in the Malay Peninsula but failed to conquer the Malacca Sultanate, which was supported by the Chinese Ming dynasty.
thailand: This means they use about twice as much biocapacity as Thailand contains, resulting in a deficit.
thailand: ahead of tariff hikes, while the second half is expected to slow as higher U.S.
thailand: Most of the country is classified as Köppen's tropical savanna climate.
thailand: The last fifty years of the kingdom witnessed bloody succession crises, where there were purges of court officials and able generals for many consecutive reigns.
thailand: According to the Simhanavati legend given in several chronicles, the first Tai city-state in northern Thailand, Singhanavati, was founded around the 7th century.
thailand: Thailand: Shifting Ground Between the US and a Rising China (2nd ed.).
thailand: Prior to the pandemic, Thailand was the world's eighth most visited country according to the World Tourism rankings compiled by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation.
thailand: The constitution does not name an official state religion, and provides for freedom of religion.
thailand: Top quintile households had a 45.0% share of all income, while bottom quintile households had 7.1%.
thailand: The trading network existed for 3,000 years, between 2000 BCE to 1000 CE.
thailand: Common ingredients include garlic, lemongrass, kaffir lime, galangal, turmeric, coriander, and coconut milk.
thailand: The domains of Tai people existed from the northeast of present-day India to the north of present-day Laos and to the Malay Peninsula.
thailand: Both ram muay and wai khru take place before all traditional muay Thai matches.
thailand: OCLC 1101343921.
thailand: These reforms implemented an agenda of increased privatisation and trade liberalisation in the country, and decreased federal subsidisation of public goods and utilities, agricultural price supports, and regulations on fair wages and labour conditions.
thailand: After Singhanavati was submerged below Chiang Saen Lake due to an earthquake in 545, the survivors then founded a new seat at Wieng–Prueksha.
thailand: 1851–1868) reads SPPM (Somdet Phra Poramenthra Maha) Mongkut Rex Siamensium (Mongkut, King of the Siamese).
thailand: During the Ayutthaya Kingdom, new poetic forms were created, with different rhyme schemes and metres.
thailand: The unexpected death of Mongkut from malaria led to the reign of underage King Chulalongkorn, with Somdet Chaophraya Sri Suriwongse (Chuang Bunnag) acting as regent.
thailand: Those that could not find formal factory work, including illegal migrants and the families of rural Thai migrants, are under the regulation imposed by the structural adjustment programmes.
thailand: 28 Thai nationals were killed in this conflict.
thailand: According to the Wat Kud Tae inscription (K.1105), dated c.
thailand: The size of each element in the picture reflected its degree of importance.
thailand: In order to secure independence, it sought to pit one great power against the others so that it would be dominated by none.
thailand: After a bloody period of dynastic struggle, Ayutthaya entered what has been called the Siamese "golden age", a relatively peaceful episode in the second quarter of the 18th century where art, literature, and learning flourished.
thailand: Chao Tak then crowned himself as Taksin and proclaimed Thonburi as temporary capital in the same year.
thailand: The current constitution mandates that prime ministers are to be considered from candidates nominated by political parties before the election.
thailand: All of the turmoil, as mentioned earlier, also led to the independence declaration of the Sukhothai Kingdom in 1238.
thailand: ISBN 978-981-4828-77-2.
thailand: Thai films are exported and exhibited in Southeast Asia.
thailand: Later constitutions created a multi-party system where a single party cannot gain a majority in the house.
thailand: Thai people began migrating into present-day Thailand gradually from the 6th to 11th century, which Mon and Khmer people occupied at the time.
thailand: Agriculture has been experiencing a transition from labour-intensive and transitional methods to a more industrialised and competitive sector.
thailand: However, the country's educational infrastructure was still underprepared for online teaching, as smaller and more remote schools were particularly hindered by COVID-19 restrictions.
thailand: Thailand's economy is the second-largest in the region and the 23rd globally by purchasing power parity, ranking 29th by gross domestic product.
thailand: Winter or the northeast monsoon occurs from mid-October until mid-February.
thailand: Substantial industries include electric appliances, components, computer components, and vehicles.
thailand: Thailand generally uses the metric system, but traditional units of measurement for land area are used, and imperial units of measurement are occasionally used for building materials.
thailand: This is likely due to unequal allocation of educational resources, weak teacher training, poverty, and low Thai language skill, the language of the tests.
thailand: Tens of thousands of migrants from neighbouring countries face exploitation in a few industries, especially in fishing where slave-like conditions have been reported.
thailand: Portugal became an ally and ceded some soldiers to King Rama Thibodi II.
thailand: Another protest led by PAD ended with the dissolution of PPP, and the Democrat Party led a coalition government in its place.
thailand: In 2017, there were 14 million people who applied for social welfare (yearly income of less than ฿100,000 was required).
thailand: The north is the chief destination for trekking and adventure travel with its diverse ethnic minority groups and forested mountains.
thailand: The kingdom especially prospered during cosmopolitan Narai's reign (1656–1688), when some European travellers regarded Ayutthaya as an Asian great power, alongside China and India.
thailand: Bank of Thailand reported that during 2006–16, Thailand's top 5% largest companies had 85% of all corporate revenue in the nation, and only 6% of the country's companies were in export industries, which made up 60% of the country's GDP.
thailand: It shares land borders with Myanmar to the west and northwest, Laos to the east and northeast, Cambodia to the southeast, and Malaysia to the south.
thailand: The government, in 2018, has developed an Alternative Energy Development Plan 2018–2037 (AEDP 2018).
thailand: The Khao Kheow Open Zoo in Chonburi is the second largest zoo in Asia.
thailand: The same prince also composed the greatly admired Kap Ho Khlong on the Visit to Than Thongdaeng and Kap Ho Khlong Nirat Phrabat.
thailand: King Rama I established the Rattanakosin Kingdom and moved the capital to Bangkok in 1782.
thailand: Some groups later migrated south to Guangxi.
thailand: During the 18th century Rattanakosin period, which still fought with the Burmese, many of the early Rattanakosin works dealt with war and military strategy.
thailand: Thailand's government-sponsored family planning programme resulted in a dramatic decline in population growth from 3.1% in 1960 to around 0.4% today.
thailand: According to the National Research Council of Thailand, the country devoted 1.1% of its GDP to the research and development of science in 2019, with over 166,788 research and development personnel in full-time equivalent that year.
thailand: Each province is divided into districts (อำเภอ, amphoe) and the districts are further divided into sub-districts (ตำบล, tambons).
thailand: Based at Chanthaburi, Chao Tak raised troops and resources, and sent a fleet up the Chao Phraya to take the fort of Thonburi.
thailand: During the Cold War, Thailand sought to prevent the spread of communism so it joined the United States, including participating in SEATO alliance, sending expeditions to Korea and Vietnam, and offering the US to use its base.
thailand: Wat architecture demonstrates many differences in layout and style, but they all adhere to the same principles.
thailand: Thailand had a 2017 GDP of US$1.236 trillion (on a purchasing power parity basis).
thailand: More controversially, he established close, friendly ties with the Burmese dictatorship.
thailand: The 2011 Thailand Country Report provides population numbers for mountain peoples ('hill tribes') and ethnic communities in the Northeast and is explicit about its main reliance on the Mahidol University Ethnolinguistic Maps of Thailand data.
thailand: Several wars with its ruling Taungoo dynasty starting in the 1540s in the reign of Tabinshwehti and Bayinnaung were ultimately ended with the capture of the capital in 1570.
thailand: Ayutthaya was a patchwork of self-governing principalities and tributary provinces owing allegiance to the King of Ayutthaya under the mandala system.
thailand: Chao Tak, a capable military leader, proceeded to make himself a lord by right of conquest, beginning with the legendary sack of Chanthaburi.
thailand: Famous practitioners include Buakaw Banchamek, Samart Payakaroon, and Apidej Sit-Hirun.
thailand: Aside from folk and regional dances (southern Thailand's Menora and Ramwong, for example), the two major forms of Thai classical dance drama are Khon and Lakhon nai.
thailand: The entertainment industries are estimated to have directly contributed $2.1 billion in GDP to the Thai economy in 2011.
thailand: The protests brought forward unprecedented demands to reform the monarchy and the highest sense of republicanism in the country's history.
thailand: The Tai people are believed to have originated from the Điện Biên Phủ region since the 5th century and began migrating into the territory of modern Thailand between the 8th and 10th centuries.
thailand: Military figure Prem Tinsulanonda was appointed Prime Minister from in 1980.
thailand: OCLC 548555562.
thailand: Bhumibol, the longest-reigning Thai king, died in 2016, and his son Vajiralongkorn ascended to the throne.
thailand: There were 64,953,661 Thai nationals and 997,549 non-Thai residents.
thailand: In the far south, Kelantan-Pattani Malay is the primary language of Malay Muslims.
thailand: Many are farmed or hunted for their meat, which supposedly has medicinal properties.
thailand: The sex ratio between male and female is 1.05, with Thailand having slightly more males.
thailand: The growth of this economy based on wage labour rather than subsistence agriculture resulted in increased class consciousness and sympathies to the Communist Party of Thailand, while university-educated students formed movements against the military dictatorship.
thailand: The plan defines goals for the increase of renewable energy to almost 30,000 MW by 2037.
thailand: Chulalongkorn (r.
thailand: His forces engaged in wars with Burma, Laos, and Cambodia, which successfully drove the Burmese out of Lan Na in 1775, captured Vientiane in 1778 and tried to install a pro-Thai king in Cambodia in the 1770s.
thailand: Many migrant farmers took jobs in sweatshops and factories with few labour regulations and often exploitative conditions.
thailand: Sri Thammasokkarat married to princess of Dhanyapura (Dong Mae Nang Mueang in the present-day Nakhon Sawan province), and their descendants ruled Tambralinga until the late 13th century.
thailand: Coal-fired power plants produce an additional 20% of electricity, with the remainder coming from biomass, hydro, and biogas.
thailand: Most of international students come from neighbour countries like China, Myanmar, Cambodia and Vietnam.
thailand: The inscriptions of Dvaravati were in Sanskrit and Mon using the script derived from the Pallava alphabet of the South Indian Pallava dynasty.
thailand: Government is separated into three branches:
thailand: There are also two specially governed districts: the capital Bangkok and Pattaya.
thailand: They are subjected to varying lengths of active service depending on the duration of reserve training as Territorial Defence Student and their level of education.
thailand: There are 4,125 public vans operating on 114 routes from Bangkok alone.
thailand: The 2024 Thai Senate election was the first senate election held under the current constitution in the process criticised as "the most complicated election in the world".
thailand: Thailand is among the world's ten countries that are most exposed to climate change.
thailand: "Browse the Southeast Asia Visions Collection".
thailand: Education is provided by a school system of kindergartens, primary, lower secondary and upper secondary schools, numerous vocational colleges, and universities.
thailand: The People's Democratic Reform Committee organised another anti-Shinawatra protest after the ruling party proposed an amnesty bill which would benefit Thaksin.
thailand: He was the first king of the ruling Chakri dynasty and founder of the Rattanakosin Kingdom on 6 April 1782.
thailand: In 2013, the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology announced that 27,231 schools would receive classroom-level access to high-speed internet.
thailand: The military is also notorious for numerous corruption incidents, such as accusation of human trafficking, and nepotism in promotion of high-ranking officers.
thailand: On August 7, 2024, Thailand's Constitutional Court banned the victors of the 2023 parliamentary elections, the Move Forward Party and all of its leaders from politics for its proposal to reform the lèse-majesté law, arguing it posed a threat to the constitutional order.
thailand: Footscray, Vic.: Lonely Planet.
thailand: Thai Chinese, including those of significant Chinese origins, are 14% of the population, while Thais with partial Chinese ancestry comprise up to 40% of the population.
thailand: Some of the most well-known modern Thai writers include Kukrit Pramoj, Kulap Saipradit, (penname Siburapha), Suweeriya Sirisingh (penname Botan), Chart Korbjitti, Prabda Yoon, and Duanwad Pimwana.
thailand: The centre of the country is dominated by the predominantly flat Chao Phraya river valley, which runs into the Gulf of Thailand.
thailand: However, some laws are inspired from Buddhist practices, such as banning alcohol sales on religious holidays.
thailand: Issues concerning university entrance have been in constant upheaval for a number of years.
thailand: In 1988, Thailand saw its first freely-elected prime minister since the 1976 coup.
thailand: Rivalry for supremacy over Chiang Mai and the Mon people pitted Ayutthaya against the Burmese Kingdom.
thailand: However, several modern geology and archaeology studies found that its centre, Yonok Nahaphan, dates from 691 BCE–545 CE; this roughly coincides with the establishment of Shan States, another Tai's federated principalities in the present-day northeast Myanmar.
thailand: The Song Huiyao Jigao (960–1279) indicate Siamese people settled in the west central Thailand and their state was called Xiān guó (Chinese: 暹國), while the eastern plain belonged to the Mon of Lavo (Chinese: 羅渦國), who later fell under the Chenla and Khmer hegemony around the 7th–9th centuries.
thailand: The former capital was occupied by the Burmese garrison army and five local leaders declared themselves overlords, including the lords of Sakwangburi, Phitsanulok, Pimai, Chanthaburi, and Nakhon Si Thammarat.
thailand: This contrasts with the Chinese sources, where Xian was used as a toponym.
thailand: It contributes to the tourism sector owing to its clear shallow waters along the coasts in the southern region and the Kra Isthmus.
thailand: Thailand ranks midway in the wealth spread in Southeast Asia as it is the fourth richest nation according to GDP per capita, after Singapore, Brunei, and Malaysia.
thailand: Taboos in Thai culture include touching someone's head or pointing with the feet, as the head is considered the most sacred and the foot the lowest part of the body.
thailand: Thailand Condensed: 2000 Years of History & Culture.
thailand: The women's team has often participated in the World Championship, World Cup, and World Grand Prix Asian Championship.
thailand: In October 1940, months after fall of France to Nazi Germany, Phibun launched an opportunistic invasion of French Indochinese territories lost to the French Empire during the reign of King Chulalongkorn.
thailand: HRAF Press.
thailand: A 2012 study found that 64% of informal workers had not completed education beyond primary school.
thailand: Years are numbered as B.E.
thailand: However, growing French influence later in his reign was met with nationalist sentiment and eventually led to the Siamese revolution of 1688.
thailand: Its initial expansion was through conquest and political marriage.
thailand: In 2014, Credit Suisse reported that Thailand was the world's third most unequal country, behind Russia and India.
thailand: The Thai people are of the Tai ethnic group, characterised by common linguistic roots.
thailand: He also created suzerainty over large portions of Laos and Cambodia.
thailand: From the late 19th century, Siam tried to rule the ethnic groups in the realm as colonies.
thailand: Some 41,000 Britons and 20,000 Australians live in Thailand.
thailand: Thai Buddhism has evolved over millennia from the Mon kingdom of Dvaravati in Central Thailand (6th–11th century).
thailand: Sukhothai expanded furthest during the reign of Ram Khamhaeng (r.
thailand: Additionally, his rural poverty policies directly conflicted with King Bhumibol's recommendations, drawing the ire of royalists, a powerful faction in Thailand.
thailand: Monk artist Khrua In Khong is well known as the first artist to introduce linear perspective to Thai traditional art.
thailand: Thailand's protected areas include 156 national parks, 58 wildlife sanctuaries, 67 non-hunting areas, and 120 forest parks.
thailand: During Sukhothai Kingdom, the king was seen as a Dharmaraja or 'king who rules in accordance with Dharma'.
thailand: Thai universities' research output is still relatively low, even though the country's journal publications increased by 20% between 2011 and 2016.
thailand: Today, Thailand operates under the 2017 Constitution and a coalition government following the 2019 Thai general election, as well as political demonstrations demanding democracy and monarchy reform.
thailand: A rather similar game but played only with the feet is buka ball.
thailand: On 24 June 1932, Khana Ratsadon (People's Party) carried out a bloodless revolution which marked the beginning of constitutional monarchy.
thailand: OCLC 1110657073.
thailand: Education is compulsory up to and including age 14, while the government is mandated to provide free education through to age 17.
thailand: The busiest airport in the country is Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi Airport.
thailand: However, Mainland Southeast Asian sources from before the fourteenth century primarily used the word Syam as an ethnonym, referring to those who belonged to a separate cultural category different from the Khmer, Cham, Bagan, or Mon.
thailand: Mainstream Thai historians count Sukhothai as the first kingdom of Thai people.
thailand: Chatichai Choonhavan ruled for 3 years before being overthrown in a coup that ushered in two years of military rule under the National Peace Keeping Council.
thailand: The Front Palace crisis of 1874 stalled attempts at further reforms.
thailand: According to the 2018 National Statistical Office data, 93.46% of the country's population self-identified as Buddhists.
thailand: (Buddhist Era) in educational settings, civil service, government, contracts, and newspaper datelines.
thailand: The end of Vietnam War was a turning point in Thai foreign policy and afterwards it sought to improve relations with Communist China and its now-Communist neighbours.
thailand: The head of the Thai Armed Forces (จอมทัพไทย, Chom Thap Thai) is the king, although this position is only nominal.
thailand: Thai cinema has developed its own unique identity.
thailand: In 2010–2012, more than 90% of medical tourists travelled to Thailand for SRS.
thailand: Other recitals include Sri Thanonchai.
thailand: The two top-ranking universities in Thailand are Chulalongkorn University and Mahidol University.
thailand: Thai Malays also represent 3% of the Thai population's heritage, with the remainder consisting of Mons, Khmers, and various "hill tribes".
thailand: Thailand ranks as the worlds fifth largest medical tourism destination in spending, according to the World Travel and Tourism Council, attracting over 2.5 million visitors in 2018, and is number one in Asia.
thailand: The senate is allegedly dominated by Bhumjaithai Party-affiliated senators.
thailand: Rapid urbanisation occurred as the rural populace sought work in growing cities like Bangkok.
thailand: The northeast, Isan, consists of the Khorat Plateau, bordered to the east by the Mekong River.
thailand: Major exports include cars, computers, electrical appliances, rice, textiles and footwear, fishery products, rubber, and jewellery.
thailand: Another theory is the name derives from the Chinese calling this region 'Xian'.
thailand: It also incorporates various paramilitary forces.
thailand: There are four rapid transit rail systems in the capital: the BTS Skytrain, MRT, SRT Red Lines, and the Airport Rail Link.
thailand: They have won the Asian Championship twice and the Asian Cup once.
thailand: Wyatt, a historian of Thailand, argued that their ancestors who at present inhabit Laos, Thailand, Myanmar, India, and China came from the Điện Biên Phủ area between the 5th and the 8th century.
thailand: Despite the revolution, overall relations remained stable, with French missionaries still actively preaching Christianity.
thailand: In 2002, Bumrungrad became the first hospital in Asia to meet the standard.
thailand: Trai Phum Phra Ruang, written in 1345 by King Maha Thammaracha I, expounds Buddhist philosophy based on an extensive study with reference to over 30 sacred texts and could be considered the nation's first piece of research dissertation.
thailand: His government adopted Thai nationalist, pro-Westernisation, anti-royalist, Irredentist, anti-Chinese and anti-French policies.
thailand: Thailand is also the world leader in edible insect industry and well known for its street food; Bangkok is sometimes called the street food capital of the world.
thailand: The Thai poet Sunthorn Phu is known as "the bard of Rattanakosin" (Thai: กวีเอกแห่งกรุงรัตนโกสินทร์).
thailand: The United Kingdom, whose colony Malaya was under immediate threat from Thai forces, responded in kind, but the United States refused to declare war and ignored Thailand's declaration.
thailand: There is also a small Jewish community in Thailand dating back to the 17th century.
thailand: The Court then ordered the arrest of Thaksin in September 2025.
thailand: However, these practices likely aroused opposition to Phibun's dictatorial legacy, and the US supported his final ouster in 1957.
thailand: The ensuing National Council for Peace and Order, a military junta led by General Prayut Chan-o-cha, led the country until 2019.
thailand: Thailand has had 20 constitutions and charters since 1932, including the latest and current 2017 Constitution.
thailand: Thaksin sought to position Thailand as a regional leader, initiating various development projects in poorer neighbouring countries.
thailand: Compared to other ASEAN's countries, Thailand is the largest importer of gas in weight.
thailand: Thailand entry in Library of Congress Country Studies.
thailand: The top 10% richest held 79% of the country's assets.
thailand: The Thonburi period produced Ramakien, a verse drama contributed by King Taksin the Great.
thailand: Thaigov.go.th – Government of Thailand
Chief of State and Cabinet Members (archived 10 December 2008)
Mfa.go.th – Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Thailand Internet information – National Electronics and Computer Technology Center
Ministry of Culture (archived 28 April 2015)
General information
thailand: A year in Thailand is divided into three seasons.
thailand: Southern Thailand consists of the narrow Kra Isthmus that widens into the Malay Peninsula.
thailand: Samuel Beal discovered the polity among the Chinese writings on Southeast Asia as "Duoluobodi".
thailand: The two most important sites were Nakorn Pathom and U Thong (in modern Suphan Buri Province).
thailand: About 44.2% of Thailand's population lived in urban areas as of 2010, slowly increasing from 29.4% in the 1990 census and 31.1% in the 2000 census.
thailand: ISBN 978-981-261-520-6.
thailand: Some evidence indicates that the ancestors of Tai people migrated en masse southwestwards out of Yunnan only after the 1253 Mongol invasion of Dali; however, it is not generally accepted.
thailand: Thailand had 62 hospitals accredited by Joint Commission International.
thailand: He maintained political stability via a close relationship with King Bhumibol, who helped to foil two military coups in attempts against Prem in 1981 and in 1985.
thailand: The practice has long been criticised, as some media question its efficacy and value.
thailand: The first is the rainy or southwest monsoon season (mid–May to mid–October), which is caused by southwestern wind from the Indian Ocean.
thailand: 75% of Thailand's electrical generation is powered by natural gas in 2014.
thailand: Thailand is classified as a newly industrialised country, with manufacturing, agriculture, and tourism being the main economic sectors.
thailand: The son of the couple contested the Khmer throne and became Suryavarman I (1006–1050), thus bringing Lavo under Khmer domination through marital union.
thailand: During this era, Angkor's power waned due to the weak rule and feuding began in the Angkor.
thailand: When East Timor gained independence from Indonesia, Thailand contributed troops to the international peacekeeping effort.
thailand: Thailand is an emerging economy and is considered a newly industrialised country.
thailand: The Prime Minister was elected by the House of Representatives.
thailand: Civil and political rights were restricted, and the country saw a surge in lèse-majesté cases.
thailand: In a report issued in March 2020, Amnesty International charged that Thai military conscripts face institutionalised abuse systematically hushed up by military authorities.
thailand: The pro-Thaksin United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship (UDD) protested both in 2009 and in 2010, the latter of which ended with a violent military crackdown causing more than 70 civilian deaths.
thailand: During Thaksin Shinawatra's premiership, negotiations for several free trade agreements with China, Australia, Bahrain, India, and the US were initiated.
thailand: In 1970, an average of 5.7 people lived in a Thai household; in 2022, the average Thai household size was 3 people.
thailand: However, Lavapura was probably taken back by a Tai royal from Phraek Si Racha (แพรกศรีราชา; present-day Sankhaburi) in the 13th century.
thailand: Growing Chinese influence and capital inflow caused some members of parliament to raise the concern about "economic colony" under China after many concessions.
thailand: Thailand has 390,000 kilometres (240,000 miles) of highways.
thailand: For basketball, the Chang Thailand Slammers won the 2011 ASEAN Basketball League Championship.
thailand: Informal labour in entertainment, nightlife, and the sex industry face additional vulnerabilities, including recruitment into circles of sexual exploitation and human trafficking.
thailand: In 1905, there were unsuccessful rebellions in the ancient Patani area, Ubon Ratchathani, and Phrae in opposition to an attempt to blunt the power of local lords.
thailand: Dvaravati was a network of city-states paying tribute to more powerful ones according to the mandala political model.
thailand: Industrial scale production of crops use both rivers and their tributaries.
thailand: In the 2000s, Thailand had taken an active role on the international stage and participated fully in international and regional organisations.
thailand: In the beginning, both were exclusively court entertainments, and it was not until much later that a popular style of dance theatre, likay, evolved as a diversion for common folk.
thailand: 1,250–1,000 BCE.
thailand: While the Asian financial crisis that followed in 1997 hit the Thai economy hard, the industrial sector continued to expand under widespread deregulation, as Thailand was mandated to adopt a range of structural adjustment reforms upon receiving funding from the IMF and World Bank.
thailand: Constant interference of Sukhothai effectively made it a vassal state of Ayutthaya and it was finally incorporated into the kingdom.
thailand: One literary work is Kap He Ruea, composed by Prince Thammathibet in the nirat tradition.
thailand: As of 2012, due to its favourable taxation for 2-door pick-ups at only 3–12% against 17–50% for passenger cars, Thailand was the second largest consumer of pick-up trucks in the world, after the US.
thailand: The word Śyâma is possibly not the true origin, but a pre-designed deviation from its proper, original meaning.
thailand: Economic development and public education enabled the rise of an urban middle class.
thailand: Thailand is composed of 76 provinces (จังหวัด, changwat), which are first-level administrative divisions.
thailand: Western tourists not only visit Bangkok and surrounding areas; many travel to the southern beaches and islands.
thailand: This usage of the name in the country's first international treaty gave the name Siam official status, until 24 June 1939 when it was changed to Thailand.
thailand: The informal sector in Thailand has grown significantly over the past 60 years over the course of Thailand's gradual transition from an agriculture-based economy to becoming more industrialised and service-oriented.
thailand: Since the 2000s, Thailand has experienced political conflict between supporters and opponents of Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra (in office 2001–2006), leading to the 2006 and 2014 coup d'états.
thailand: Lonely Planet guidebooks.
thailand: This, however, brought trade and economic development to Siam.
thailand: Thailand performs best (i.e., lowest-ranking) in water resource management (66), with some major improvements expected for the future, and sanitation (68).
thailand: The Ministry of Labour defines informal workers to be individuals who work in informal economies and do not have employee status under a given country's Labour Protection Act (LPA).
thailand: Phahonyothin and ICD Lat Krabang are the main freight terminals.
thailand: Tourism Authority of Thailand – official tourism website
Other
thailand: Bangkok signed the Burney Treaty in 1826, after the British victory in the First Anglo-Burmese War.
thailand: In addition to Singhanavati, another northern principality probably related to the Tai people, Ngoenyang, was established as the successor of Singhanavati in 638 by Lavachakkaraj, also centred in Wieng–Prueksha (present-day Mae Sai District, Chiang Rai).
thailand: The north of the country is the mountainous area of the Thai highlands, with the highest point being Doi Inthanon in the Thanon Thong Chai Range at 2,565 metres (8,415 ft) above sea level.
thailand: Eight manufacturers, five Japanese, two US, and Tata of India, produce pick-up trucks in Thailand.
thailand: Takraw is a sport native to Thailand in which the players hit a rattan ball and are only allowed to use their feet, knees, chest, and head to touch the ball.
thailand: Between 1992 and 2006, Thailand had a two-party system.
thailand: Cooper, Robert George (2008).
thailand: Thai sculpture and painting, and the royal courts provided patronage, erecting temples and other religious shrines as acts of merit or to commemorate important events.
thailand: Overseas Chinese also form a significant part of Thai society, particularly in and around Bangkok.
thailand: Thailand's provinces are sometimes grouped into four to six regions, depending on the source.
thailand: In contrast, in 2016, they used 2.5 global hectares of biocapacity—their ecological footprint of consumption.
thailand: After the coup d'état in 2014, Thailand had the highest number of lèse-majesté prisoners in the nation's history.
thailand: Perspective was introduced only as a result of Western influence in the mid-19th century.
thailand: Those Mon political entities, which also included Haripuñjaya in the north and several city-states in the northeast, are collectively called Dvaravati.
thailand: Thailand remains an active member of ASEAN and seek to project its influence in it.
thailand: There are more than 200 world-class golf courses nationwide.
thailand: In the same year, Chao Tak was able to retake Ayutthaya from the Burmese only seven months after the fall of the city.
thailand: Health and medical care is overseen by the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), with total national expenditures on health amounting to 4.3 per cent of GDP in 2009.
thailand: The invasion was a success, with Thailand additionally gaining some Lao and Cambodian territories.Japan, which had also been invading French Indochinese territories, brokered a ceasefire that forced France to give up several territories to Thailand.
thailand: Thammasat Stadium in Bangkok was built for the 1998 Asian Games.
thailand: Thailand has the second-largest number of Buddhists in the world after China.
thailand: Thai art was influenced by indigenous civilisations of the Mon and other civilisations.
thailand: Routledge Handbook of Contemporary Thailand.
thailand: The Khmer people established the Khmer empire, centred in Angkor, in the 9th century.
thailand: In 2016, 5.81 million people lived in poverty, or 11.6 million people (17.2% of population) if "near poor" is included.
thailand: However, in banking, and increasingly in industry and commerce, standard Western year (Christian or Common Era) counting is the standard practice.
thailand: In 2017, the Thai economy grew an inflation-adjusted 3.9%, up from 3.3% in 2016, marking its fastest expansion since 2012.
thailand: Due to their inland position and latitude, the north, northeast, central and eastern parts of Thailand experience a long period of warm weather, where temperatures can reach up to 40 °C (104 °F) during March to May, in contrast to close to or below 0 °C (32 °F) in some areas in winter.
thailand: Thailand has a mediocre but improving performance in the global Environmental Performance Index (EPI), with an overall ranking of 91 out of 180 countries in 2016.
thailand: As of 2010, Thai people make up the majority of Thailand's population (95.9%).
thailand: The judiciary is supposed to be independent of the executive and the legislative branches, although judicial rulings are suspected of being based on political considerations rather than on existing law.
thailand: Thailand also had contributed troops to reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan.
thailand: In contrast, Tai people instead established relationships with Mon via royal intermarriages.
thailand: Prior to 1932, Thai kings were feudal or absolute monarchs.
thailand: Suryavarman I also expanded into the Khorat Plateau (later styled "Isan"), constructing many temples.
thailand: In 1765, a combined 40,000-strong force of Burmese armies invaded it from the north and west.
thailand: As of 2020, Thailand was ranked 89th out of 100 countries globally for English proficiency.
thailand: Most recently, the appointed senators include more than 100 active and retired military.
thailand: The earliest conflict between Tai people and the preexisting ethnics was recorded in the mid-4th century when the ruler of Singhanavati, Pangkharat, forcibly lost the seat at Yonok to King Khom from Umongasela (present-day Fang).
thailand: As of 2025 SRT had 4,507 km (2,801 mi) of track, all of it metre gauge.
thailand: Yingluck dissolved parliament and a general election was scheduled, but her decision was invalidated by the Constitutional Court.
thailand: After the decline of the Khmer Empire and Kingdom of Pagan in the early 13th century, various states thrived in their place.
thailand: Prostitution in Thailand and sex tourism also form a de facto part of the economy.
thailand: According to the constitution, serving in the armed forces is a duty of all Thai citizens.
thailand: The Chao Phraya River in what is now central Thailand had once been the home of the Mon Dvaravati culture, which prevailed from the seventh century to the tenth century.
thailand: This coincided with the rise of fascist ideology in Thailand, with the name change reflecting policies that prioritised the needs of ethnic Thais over those of minorities like the Thai Chinese.
thailand: The Gulf of Thailand covers 320,000 square kilometres (124,000 sq mi) and is fed by the Chao Phraya, Mae Klong, Bang Pakong, and Tapi Rivers.
thailand: Furthermore, access to biocapacity in Thailand is lower than world average.
thailand: Mishra, Patit Paban (2010).
thailand: Thailand also joined the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO).
thailand: The informal labour sector is also not recognised under the Labour Protection Act (LPA).
thailand: However, it was mostly a network of local lords who swore fealty to Sukhothai, not directly controlled by it.
thailand: The country's most prevalent religion is Theravada Buddhism, which is an integral part of Thai identity and culture.
thailand: Culture Shock!
thailand: 'Thai boxing') is a combat sport that uses stand-up striking along with various clinching techniques.
thailand: A number of undivided two-lane highways have been converted into divided four-lane highways.
thailand: The economy of Thailand is heavily export-dependent, with exports accounting for more than two-thirds of gross domestic product (GDP).
thailand: A military coup d'état on that day brought Thailand a new ultra-right-wing military government which cracked down on media outlets, government officials, and intellectuals, engendering a Communist insurgency.
thailand: Thailand is the second largest economy in Southeast Asia after Indonesia.
thailand: He oversaw the beginning of a period of significant economic growth and democratisation throughout the 1980s.
thailand: Thai cuisine is one of the most popular in the world.
thailand: Dvaravati culture expanded into Isan as well as south as far as the Kra Isthmus.
thailand: Several Thai dance-pop artists are internationally successful like Lisa, Violette Wautier, Jeff Satur, and Tata Young.
thailand: The number of higher education institutions in Thailand has grown over the past decades to 156 officially.
thailand: The country had a 2019 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 6.00/10, ranking it 88th globally out of 172 countries.
thailand: During the classical historical period, major kingdoms such as Sukhothai, Lan Na, and Ayutthaya were established.
thailand: The practice of keeping wild animals as pets affects species such as Asiatic black bear, Malayan sun bear, white-handed lar, pileated gibbon, and binturong.
thailand: The name of each province's capital city (เมือง, mueang) is the same as that of the province.
thailand: On 8 December 1941, the Japanese Empire launched an invasion of Thailand, and fierce fighting broke out in Southern Thailand before Phibun ordered an armistice and joined the Axis powers just five hours later.
thailand: The origins of Thai art were influenced by Buddhist art and by scenes from the Indian epics.
thailand: Respect for elderly and superiors (by age, position, monks, or certain professions) is Thai mores, reflecting in many classes of honorifics.
thailand: Despite brief periods of liberal democracy in the 1970s and 1990s, Thailand alternated between liberal democracy and military dictatorship.
thailand: Human rights in Thailand has been rated not free on the Freedom House Index since 2014.
thailand: Prem's constitutionalist political approach aided with a transition away from military rule and a negotiated end to the Communist insurgency by 1983.
thailand: Thailand's youth literacy rate was 98.1% in 2015.
thailand: The steady rise of the Ayutthaya Kingdom marked a major geopolitical shift, eventually allowing Ayutthaya to eclipse the Khmer Empire and assume the mantle of regional dominance in mainland Southeast Asia.
thailand: Thai law officially recognises five religious groups: Buddhists, Muslims, Brahmin-Hindus, Sikhs, and Christians.
thailand: Thailand is the third most popular study destination in ASEAN.
thailand: The eastern shore of the Gulf of Thailand has the kingdom's premier deepwater port in Sattahip and its busiest commercial port, Laem Chabang.
thailand: In the reign of Mongkut (1851–1868), who recognised the potential threat Western powers posed to Siam, his court contacted the British government directly to defuse tensions.
thailand: Thai literature has had a long history.
thailand: With new democratic institutions limited in their capability to solidify power and pass reforms, the three years after the uprising were marked by political and economic instability.
thailand: The remaining principal city-states in Isan region became Lan Xang around 1353 after the twin cities of Muang Sua (Luang Prabang) and Vieng Chan Vieng Kham (Vientiane) became independent following the death of the Sukhothai king Ram Khamhaeng.
thailand: There were seldom foreign wars, apart from conflict with the Nguyễn lords for control of Cambodia starting around 1715.
thailand: The origins and ethnicity of the Syam remain unclear, with some literature suggesting that Syam refers to the Shan people, the Bru people, or the Brau people.
thailand: Thus, though over 3.288 million people in the Northeast alone could not be categorised, the population and percentages of other ethnic communities c.
thailand: Traditional Thai paintings showed subjects in two dimensions without perspective.
thailand: The kings are protected by lèse-majesté laws which allow critics to be jailed for three to fifteen years.
thailand: It is a unitary state governed under a parliamentary system with a bicameral legislature comprising the elected House of Representatives and the appointed Senate.
thailand: Krung Thep Aphiwat Central Terminal and Bangkok (Hua Lamphong) are the main termini of intercity routes.
thailand: Many informal workers are also migrants, only some of which have legal status in the country.
thailand: Political opponents and dissenters were sent to "attitude adjustment" camps; this was described by academics as indicating the return of fascism to Thailand.
