tornado: The International Fujita scale is also used to rate the intensity of tornadoes and other wind events based on the severity of the damage they cause.
tornado: Multiple tornadoes produced by the same storm cell are referred to as a "tornado family".
tornado: Funnel clouds also produce sounds.
tornado: Low-level mesocyclones and tornadoes owe their rotation to complex processes within the supercell and ambient environment.
tornado: Tornadoes may be obscured completely by rain or dust.
tornado: Tornadoes are most common in spring and least common in winter, but tornadoes can occur any time of year that favorable conditions occur.
tornado: They form at the bases of cumulus congestus clouds over tropical and subtropical waters.
tornado: Meanwhile, the RFD, now an area of cool surface winds, begins to wrap around the tornado, cutting off the inflow of warm air which previously fed the tornado.
tornado: The storm is contracting into a rope-like tube and, due to conservation of angular momentum, winds can increase at this point.
tornado: A dust devil (also known as a whirlwind) resembles a tornado in that it is a vertical swirling column of air.
tornado: Those that occur near intense wildfires are called fire whirls.
tornado: During this stage, the shape of the tornado becomes highly influenced by the winds of the parent storm, and can be blown into fantastic patterns.
tornado: Highway overpasses are one of the worst places to take shelter during tornadoes, as the constricted space can be subject to increased wind speed and funneling of debris underneath the overpass.
tornado: They typically look to its rear, the main region of updraft and inflow.
tornado: Although this is a widely accepted theory for how most tornadoes form, live, and die, it does not explain the formation of smaller tornadoes, such as landspouts, long-lived tornadoes, or tornadoes with multiple vortices.
tornado: A tornado that affected Hallam, Nebraska on May 22, 2004, was up to 2.5 miles (4.0 km) wide at the ground, and a tornado in El Reno, Oklahoma on May 31, 2013, was approximately 2.6 miles (4.2 km) wide, the widest on record.
tornado: Meteorologists have a fairly good understanding of the development of thunderstorms and mesocyclones, and the meteorological conditions conducive to their formation.
tornado: A large portion of these tornadoes form in an area of the central United States known as Tornado Alley.
tornado: Most tornadoes take on the appearance of a narrow funnel, a few hundred meters (yards) across, with a small cloud of debris near the ground.
tornado: Direct measurement of the windspeeds of the most violent tornadoes is nearly impossible because conventional anemometers cannot withstand the intense winds and flying debris.
tornado: The Netherlands has the highest average number of recorded tornadoes per area of any country (more than 20, or 0.00048/km2, 0.0012/sq mi annually), followed by the UK (around 33, 0.00013/km2, 0.00034/sq mi per year), although those are of lower intensity, briefer and cause minor damage.
tornado: Tornadoes also produce identifiable inaudible infrasonic signatures.
tornado: They are generally classified as non-supercellular tornadoes that develop over bodies of water, but there is disagreement about whether to classify them as true tornadoes.
tornado: One tornado was reported to have a damage path only 7 feet (2.1 m) long.
tornado: Indeed, in the 1999 Oklahoma tornado outbreak of May 3, 1999, three highway overpasses were directly struck by tornadoes, and at each of the three locations there was a fatality, along with many life-threatening injuries.
tornado: Since many tornadoes are audible only when very near, sound is not to be thought of as a reliable warning signal for a tornado.
tornado: As the updraft intensifies, it creates an area of low pressure at the surface.
tornado: The safest place is the side or corner of an underground room opposite the tornado's direction of approach (usually the northeast corner), or the central-most room on the lowest floor.
tornado: Johnsbury, VT: Environmental Films.
tornado: Tornadoes occurring in these conditions are especially dangerous, since only weather radar observations, or possibly the sound of an approaching tornado, serve as any warning to those in the storm's path.
tornado: On rare occasions, anticyclonic tornadoes form in association with the mesoanticyclone of an anticyclonic supercell, in the same manner as the typical cyclonic tornado, or as a companion tornado either as a satellite tornado or associated with anticyclonic eddies within a supercell.
tornado: An EF0 tornado will probably damage trees but not substantial structures, whereas an EF5 tornado can rip buildings off their foundations leaving them bare and even deform large skyscrapers.
tornado: The first public tornado warnings were issued in 1950 and the first tornado watches and convective outlooks came about in 1952.
tornado: ISBN 0-8061-3302-3.
tornado: Intense tornadoes have been observed forming simultaneously with a mesocyclone aloft (rather than succeeding mesocyclogenesis) and some intense tornadoes have occurred without a mid-level mesocyclone.
tornado: Lightning is said to be the source of illumination for those who claim to have seen the interior of a tornado.
tornado: However, researchers typically distinguish "fair weather" waterspouts from tornadic (i.e.
tornado: Typically, systems as weak as landspouts and gustnadoes can rotate anticyclonically, and usually only those which form on the anticyclonic shear side of the descending rear flank downdraft (RFD) in a cyclonic supercell.
tornado: Tornadoes can also be spawned as a result of eyewall mesovortices, which persist until landfall.
tornado: Small, relatively weak landspouts may be visible only as a small swirl of dust on the ground.
tornado: The flow inside the funnel of the tornado is downward, supplying water vapor from the cloud above.
tornado: The metathesis of the r and o in the English spelling was influenced by the Spanish tornado (past participle of tornar 'to twist, turn', from Latin tornō 'to turn').
tornado: Also, most tornadoes occur in the late afternoon, when the bright sun can penetrate even the thickest clouds.
tornado: Analysis of observations including both stationary and mobile (surface and aerial) in-situ and remote sensing (passive and active) instruments generates new ideas and refines existing notions.
tornado: Some evidence does suggest that the Southern Oscillation is weakly correlated with changes in tornado activity, which vary by season and region, as well as whether the ENSO phase is that of El Niño or La Niña.
tornado: This is likely attributable to the lesser number of tornadoes overall, as research shows that tornado intensity distributions are fairly similar worldwide.
tornado: This results in the formation of a visible funnel cloud or condensation funnel.
tornado: Of all countries, the United Kingdom has the highest incidence of tornadoes per unit area of land.
tornado: The EF scale was designed so that a tornado rated on the Fujita scale would receive the same numerical rating, and was implemented starting in the United States in 2007.
tornado: The similar TORRO scale ranges from a T0 for extremely weak tornadoes to T11 for the most powerful known tornadoes.
tornado: This is a phenomenon that is distinct from a satellite tornado, which is a smaller tornado that forms very near a large, strong tornado contained within the same mesocyclone.
tornado: In official tornado statistics, waterspouts are generally not counted unless they affect land, though some European weather agencies count waterspouts and tornadoes together.
tornado: By comparison, during the same tornado outbreak, more than 2,000 homes were completely destroyed and another 7,000 damaged, and yet only a few dozen people died in their homes.
tornado: The result is a gustnado.
tornado: Many tornadoes are not audible from much distance; the nature of and the propagation distance of the audible sound depends on atmospheric conditions and topography.
tornado: Various sounds of tornadoes have been reported, mostly related to familiar sounds for the witness and generally some variation of a whooshing roar.
tornado: Spotters watch all areas of a storm, and the cloud base and surface.
tornado: There are observed correlations between tornadoes and patterns of lightning.
tornado: Other rich areas of research are tornadoes associated with mesovortices within linear thunderstorm structures and within tropical cyclones.
tornado: If no sturdy shelter is nearby, getting low in a ditch is the next best option.
tornado: "'Cyclone' Jones: Dr.
tornado: A wedge can be so wide that it appears to be a block of dark clouds, wider than the distance from the cloud base to the ground.
tornado: Tornadoes often begin as funnel clouds with no associated strong winds at the surface, and not all funnel clouds evolve into tornadoes.
tornado: Similar phenomena in nature include the gustnado, dust devil, fire whirl, and steam devil.
tornado: Many, but not all major tornadoes are wedge tornados.
tornado: Storms that produce tornadoes can feature intense updrafts, sometimes exceeding 240 km/h (150 mph).
tornado: It holds the record for the longest path length at 352 kilometres (219 mi), and the longest duration at approximately 3+1⁄2 hours.
tornado: One of the most extensive tornado outbreaks on record was the 1974 Super Outbreak, which affected a large area of the central United States and extreme southern Ontario on April 3 and 4, 1974.
tornado: As the tornado enters the dissipating stage, its associated mesocyclone often weakens as well, as the rear flank downdraft cuts off the inflow powering it.
tornado: Other areas of the world that have frequent tornadoes include South Africa, the La Plata Basin area, portions of Europe, Australia and New Zealand, and far eastern Asia.
tornado: In tornado-prone areas, many buildings have underground storm cellars, which have saved thousands of lives.
tornado: In the United States, 80% of tornadoes are EF0 and EF1 (T0 through T3) tornadoes.
tornado: Waterspouts are characterized by a spiraling funnel-shaped wind current, connecting to a large cumulus or cumulonimbus cloud.
tornado: Although researched for about 140 years and intensively so for around 60 years, there are still aspects of tornadoes which remain a mystery.
tornado: There are more than 230,000 trained Skywarn weather spotters across the United States.
tornado: However, a satellite tornado is a distinct circulation, and is much smaller than the main funnel.
tornado: A few significant tornadoes occur annually in Europe, Asia, southern Africa, and southeastern South America.
tornado: More often than not, overall cloud-to-ground (CG) lightning activity decreases as a tornado touches the surface and returns to the baseline level when the tornado dissipates.
tornado: There is mounting evidence, including Doppler on Wheels mobile radar images and eyewitness accounts, that most tornadoes have a clear, calm center with extremely low pressure, akin to the eye of tropical cyclones.
tornado: Tornado refers to the vortex of wind, not the condensation cloud.
tornado: The outbreak featured 148 tornadoes in 18 hours, many of which were violent: seven of F5 intensity, and twenty-three peaking at F4 intensity.
tornado: Hot springs and deserts may also be suitable locations for a tighter, faster-rotating steam devil to form.
tornado: Folklore often identifies a green sky with tornadoes, and though the phenomenon may be associated with severe weather, there is no evidence linking it specifically with tornadoes.
tornado: A gustnado, or gust front tornado, is a small, vertical swirl associated with a gust front or downburst.
tornado: The spotter's ability to see what radar cannot is especially important as distance from the radar site increases, because the radar beam becomes progressively higher in altitude further away from the radar, chiefly due to curvature of Earth, and the beam also spreads out.
tornado: The term is not precisely defined; for example, there is disagreement as to whether separate touchdowns of the same funnel constitute separate tornadoes.
tornado: Since they form from severe thunderstorms and can be far more intense, faster, and longer-lived than fair weather waterspouts, they are more dangerous.
tornado: Tornadoes also occur across northeastern Mexico.
tornado: Destructive tornadoes can occur at any time of day.
tornado: In addition to winds, tornadoes also exhibit changes in atmospheric variables such as temperature, moisture, and atmospheric pressure.
tornado: Fire whirls usually are not as strong as tornadoes associated with thunderstorms.
tornado: If a new mesocyclone develops, the cycle may start again, producing one or more new tornadoes.
tornado: Waterspouts and landspouts share many defining characteristics, including relative weakness, short lifespan, and a small, smooth condensation funnel that often does not reach the surface.
tornado: Tornadoes often develop from a class of thunderstorms known as supercells.
tornado: Waterspouts and tornadoes have been advanced as an explanation for instances of raining fish and other animals.
tornado: The Gainesville Tornado of 1936, one of the deadliest tornadoes in history, occurred at 8:30 am local time.
tornado: Many tornadoes which appear to have path lengths of 100 miles (160 km) or longer are composed of a family of tornadoes which have formed in quick succession; however, there is no substantial evidence that this occurred in the case of the Tri-State Tornado.
tornado: This pulls the focused mesocyclone down, in the form of a visible condensation funnel.
tornado: It is often thought that opening windows will lessen the damage caused by the tornado.
tornado: The Tri-State Tornado, which occurred on March 18, 1925, and affected parts of Missouri, Illinois, and Indiana, holds several tornado records.
tornado: Under that updraft is a rain-free base, and the next step of tornadogenesis is the formation of a rotating wall cloud.
tornado: There are several scales for rating the strength of tornadoes.
tornado: However, they form under clear skies and are no stronger than the weakest tornadoes.
tornado: A tornado with a nearly cylindrical profile and relatively low height is sometimes referred to as a "stovepipe" tornado.
tornado: Bangladesh has had at least 24 tornadoes in its history that killed more than 100 people, almost half of the total for the rest of the world.
tornado: A tornado is not necessarily visible; however, the intense low pressure caused by the high wind speeds (as described by Bernoulli's principle) and rapid rotation (due to cyclostrophic balance) usually cause water vapor in the air to condense into cloud droplets due to adiabatic cooling.
tornado: New York: Oxford University Press.
tornado: A steam devil is a rotating updraft between 50 and 200 metres (160 and 660 ft) wide that involves steam or smoke.
tornado: If low level wind shear is strong enough, the rotation can be turned vertically or diagonally and make contact with the ground.
tornado: NOAA's has a higher average 100 per year in Canada.
tornado: However, they can, on occasion, result in major damage.
tornado: In 2000, it was estimated to be the third costliest tornado when adjusted for inflation.
tornado: While large-scale storms always rotate cyclonically due to the Coriolis effect, thunderstorms and tornadoes are so small that the direct influence of the Coriolis effect is negligible, as indicated by their large Rossby numbers.
tornado: Tornadic storms do not produce more lightning than other storms and some tornadic cells never produce lightning at all.
tornado: If there is no break in activity, this is considered a tornado outbreak (although the term "tornado outbreak" has various definitions).
tornado: Most intense tornadoes (EF3 to EF5 on the Enhanced Fujita Scale) develop from supercells.
tornado: Therefore, the energy of the tornado is supplied from the cloud above.
tornado: A tornado, also known as a twister, is a rapidly rotating column of air that extends vertically from the surface of the Earth to the base of a cumulonimbus or cumulus cloud.
tornado: Any effect would vary by region.
tornado: Debris from a tornado can be lofted into the parent storm and carried a very long distance, a phenomenon known as debris fallout.
tornado: Rigorous attempts to warn of tornadoes began in the United States in the mid-20th century.
tornado: They are not considered tornadoes, except in the rare case where they connect to a pyrocumulus or other cumuliform cloud above.
tornado: For example, on June 24, 2003, near Manchester, South Dakota, a probe measured a 100-millibar (100 hPa; 3.0 inHg) pressure decrease.
tornado: A multiple-vortex tornado is a type of tornado in which two or more columns of spinning air rotate about their own axes and at the same time revolve around a common center.
tornado: Billion-dollar Weather and Climate Disasters
tornado: Importantly, development of new observation technologies and installation of finer spatial and temporal resolution observation networks have aided increased understanding and better predictions.
tornado: As of 2025, the deadliest tornado in world history was the Daultipur-Salturia Tornado in Bangladesh on April 26, 1989, which killed approximately 1,300 people.
tornado: Cyclones do not feature cloud funnels.
tornado: Though tornadoes can strike in an instant, there are precautions and preventative measures that can be taken to increase the chances of survival.
tornado: While traveling over a body of water (as a waterspout), tornadoes can turn white or even blue.
tornado: This downdraft accelerates as it approaches the ground, and drags the supercell's rotating mesocyclone towards the ground with it.
tornado: Tornadoes also occur in South Africa, much of Europe (except most of the Alps), western and eastern Australia, New Zealand, Bangladesh and adjacent eastern India, Japan, the Philippines, and southeastern South America (Uruguay and Argentina).
tornado: Although it is reasonable to suspect that global warming may affect trends in tornado activity, any such effect is not yet identifiable due to the complexity, local nature of the storms, and database quality issues.
tornado: Associations with various climate and environmental trends exist.
tornado: Rotating wall clouds may be a visual manifestation of a low-level mesocyclone.
tornado: Jones and the Origins of Tornado Research in Oklahoma".
tornado: The pressure dropped gradually as the vortex approached then dropped extremely rapidly to 850 mbar (850 hPa; 25 inHg) in the core of the violent tornado before rising rapidly as the vortex moved away, resulting in a V-shape pressure trace.
tornado: Taking shelter in a basement, under a staircase, or under a sturdy piece of furniture such as a workbench further increases the chances of survival.
tornado: ISBN 1-879362-04-X.
tornado: A tornado which is "back-lit" (viewed with the sun behind it) appears very dark.
tornado: When they rope out, the length of their funnel increases, which forces the winds within the funnel to weaken due to conservation of angular momentum.
tornado: They are not considered tornadoes because they form during fair weather and are not associated with any clouds.
tornado: Condensation funnels that pick up little or no debris can be gray to white.
tornado: While there is a large drop in atmospheric pressure inside a strong tornado, the pressure difference is unlikely to cause significant damage.
tornado: As of 2025, the record for the fastest wind speed ever logged (using Doppler radar) was produced by the 1999 Bridge Creek-Moore tornado, with an estimated wind speed of 486 ± 32 km/h (302 ± 20 mph).
tornado: Tornadoes have been known to cross major rivers, climb mountains, affect valleys, and have damaged several city centers.
tornado: Norman, OK: University of Oklahoma Press.
tornado: A linguistically related convective wind phenomena, that unlike the relatively small concentrated area of a tornado, is the widespread, straight-line derecho (, from Spanish: derecho [deˈɾetʃo], 'straight').
tornado: Solar storms similar to tornadoes have been recorded, but it is unknown how closely related they are to their terrestrial counterparts.
tornado: The RFD also focuses the mesocyclone's base, causing it to draw air from a smaller and smaller area on the ground.
tornado: There are areas which people believe to be protected from tornadoes, whether by being in a city, near a major river, hill, or mountain.
tornado: Tornadoes are often (but not always) visible in the form of a condensation funnel originating from the cloud base, with a cloud of rotating debris and dust close to the ground.
tornado: If there is enough low-level wind shear, the column of hot, rising air can develop a small cyclonic motion that can be seen near the ground.
tornado: A tornado may be much stronger than its damage-based rating indicates if its strongest winds occur away from suitable damage indicators, such as in an open field.
tornado: Also under study are the low-level mesocyclone and the stretching of low-level vorticity which tightens into a tornado, in particular, what are the processes and what is the relationship of the environment and the convective storm.
tornado: Tornadoes vary in intensity regardless of shape, size, and location, though strong tornadoes are typically larger than weak tornadoes.
tornado: Some countries have meteorological agencies which distribute tornado forecasts and increase levels of alert of a possible tornado (such as tornado watches and warnings in the United States and Canada).
tornado: Tornadoes kill an average of 179 people per year in Bangladesh, the highest number in the world.
tornado: Meteorologists still do not know the exact mechanisms by which most tornadoes form, and occasional tornadoes still strike without a tornado warning being issued.
tornado: Significant Tornadoes Update, 1992–1995.
tornado: Bradford, Marlene (2001).
tornado: There is some disagreement over the definition of a funnel cloud and a condensation funnel.
tornado: First, a funnel cloud dips which in nearly all cases develops a surface swirl by the time it reaches halfway down to the ground, signifying that a tornado is on the ground before condensation connects the surface circulation to the storm.
tornado: Increased moisture can fuel an increase in severe weather and tornado activity, particularly in the cool season.
tornado: The name stems from their characterization as a "fair weather waterspout on land".
tornado: Outside Tornado Alley, and North America in general, violent tornadoes are extremely rare.
tornado: Large tornadoes which appear wider than their cloud-to-ground height can look like large wedges stuck into the ground, and so are known as "wedge tornadoes" or "wedges".
tornado: They form when a strong convective updraft is formed near the ground on a hot day.
tornado: As the first mesocyclone and associated tornado dissipate, the storm's inflow may be concentrated into a new area closer to the center of the storm and possibly feed a new mesocyclone.
tornado: These tornadoes are said to be "roping out", or becoming a "rope tornado".
tornado: These vortices often create small areas of heavier damage along the main tornado path.
tornado: The Fujita scale rates tornadoes by damage caused and has been replaced in some countries by the updated Enhanced Fujita Scale.
tornado: These tornadoes form at all times of the year due to the frequency of unsettled conditions and movement of weather fronts.
tornado: Current records may significantly underestimate the frequency of strong (EF2-EF3) and violent (EF4-EF5) tornadoes, as damage-based intensity estimates are limited to structures and vegetation that a tornado impacts.
tornado: Only wall clouds that rotate spawn tornadoes, and they usually precede the tornado between five and thirty minutes.
tornado: These tornadoes are especially dangerous, as even experienced meteorologists might not see them.
tornado: Doppler weather radar systems can detect mesocyclones within a supercell thunderstorm, which allows meteorologists to predict tornado formations within thunderstorms.
tornado: Weak tornadoes, or strong yet dissipating tornadoes, can be exceedingly narrow, sometimes only a few feet or couple meters across.
tornado: This area extends into Canada, particularly Ontario and the Prairie Provinces, although southeast Quebec, the interior of British Columbia, and western New Brunswick are also tornado-prone.
tornado: The same tornado, viewed with the sun at the observer's back, may appear gray or brilliant white.
tornado: Worldwide, most tornadoes occur in the late afternoon, between 15:00 (3 pm) and 19:00 (7 pm) local time, with a peak near 17:00 (5 pm).
tornado: Types of tornadoes include the multiple-vortex tornado, landspout, and waterspout.
tornado: These formations do not involve high wind speeds, only completing a few rotations per minute.
tornado: On the other end of the spectrum, wedge tornadoes can have a damage path a mile (1.6 km) wide or more.
tornado: They are formed when fast-moving cold, dry outflow air from a thunderstorm is blown through a mass of stationary, warm, moist air near the outflow boundary, resulting in a "rolling" effect (often exemplified through a roll cloud).
tornado: Some meteorological situations leading to tornadogenesis are not readily detectable by radar and tornado development may occasionally take place more quickly than radar can complete a scan and send the batch of data.
tornado: Sixteen tornadoes were on the ground at the same time during its peak.
tornado: Tornadoes most commonly occur in North America, particularly in central and southeastern regions of the United States colloquially known as Tornado Alley; the United States has by far the most tornadoes of any country in the world.
tornado: Tornado occurrence is highly dependent on the time of day, because of solar heating.
tornado: In particular, the role of downdrafts, particularly the rear-flank downdraft, and the role of baroclinic boundaries, are intense areas of study.
tornado: The most extreme tornadoes can attain wind speeds of more than 480 kilometers per hour (300 mph), can be more than 3 kilometers (2 mi) in diameter, and can stay on the ground for more than 100 km (62 mi).
tornado: Even though the tornado is dissipating, it is still capable of causing damage.
tornado: Often, news of a tornado would reach a local weather office after the storm.
tornado: Climatic shifts may affect tornadoes via teleconnections in shifting the jet stream and the larger weather patterns.
tornado: A waterspout is defined by the National Weather Service as a tornado over water.
tornado: Approximately 1 percent of tornadoes rotate in an anticyclonic direction in the northern hemisphere.
tornado: Meteorology is a relatively young science and the study of tornadoes is newer still.
tornado: The EF scale was an update to the older Fujita scale, by expert elicitation, using engineered wind estimates and better damage descriptions.
tornado: Supercells and tornadoes rotate cyclonically in numerical simulations even when the Coriolis effect is neglected.
tornado: The association with track length and duration also varies, although longer track tornadoes tend to be stronger.
tornado: Unless the tornado is far away and highly visible, meteorologists advise that drivers park their vehicles far to the side of the road (so as not to block emergency traffic), and find a sturdy shelter.
tornado: Data resolution also decreases with distance from the radar.
tornado: Unlike audible signatures, tornadic signatures have been isolated; due to the long-distance propagation of low-frequency sound, efforts are ongoing to develop tornado prediction and detection devices with additional value in understanding tornado morphology, dynamics, and creation.
tornado: Another commonly held misconception is that highway overpasses provide adequate shelter from tornadoes.
tornado: (January 1997).
tornado: As the funnel descends, the RFD also reaches the ground, fanning outward and creating a gust front that can cause severe damage at a considerable distance from the tornado.
tornado: Supercells contain mesocyclones, an area of organized rotation a few kilometers/miles up in the atmosphere, usually 1.6–9.7 km (1–6 miles) across.
tornado: Ocean conditions could be used to forecast extreme spring storm events several months in advance.
tornado: When a warning is issued, going to a basement or an interior first-floor room of a sturdy building greatly increases chances of survival.
tornado: This is contrary to the upward flow inside hurricanes, supplying water vapor from the warm ocean below.
tornado: This is the "dissipating stage", often lasting no more than a few minutes, after which the tornado ends.
tornado: Today most developed countries have a network of weather radars, which serves as the primary method of detecting hook signatures that are likely associated with tornadoes.
tornado: Research has found that fewer tornadoes and hailstorms occur in winter and spring in the U.S.
tornado: According to the Glossary of Meteorology, a funnel cloud is any rotating cloud pendant from a cumulus or cumulonimbus, and thus most tornadoes are included under this definition.
tornado: The satellite tornado may appear to "orbit" the larger tornado (hence the name), giving the appearance of one, large multi-vortex tornado.
tornado: The United States has the most tornadoes out of any country, nearly four times more than estimated in all of Europe, excluding waterspouts.
tornado: In the middle latitudes, where most tornadoes of the world occur, the Rocky Mountains block moisture and buckle the atmospheric flow, forcing drier air at mid-levels of the troposphere due to downsloped winds, and causing the formation of a low pressure area downwind to the east of the mountains.
tornado: The organizations activate public warning systems such as sirens and the Emergency Alert System (EAS), and they forward the report to the NWS.
tornado: Several tornadoes are sometimes spawned from the same large-scale storm system.
tornado: The winds of the tornado vortex and of constituent turbulent eddies, as well as airflow interaction with the surface and debris, contribute to the sounds.
tornado: Due to the Venturi effect, tornadic winds are accelerated in the confined space of an overpass.
tornado: This can last from a few minutes to more than an hour, and during that time a tornado often causes the most damage, and in rare cases can be more than 1.6 km (1 mile) across.
tornado: In Europe, several nations are organizing spotter networks under the auspices of Skywarn Europe and the Tornado and Storm Research Organisation (TORRO) has maintained a network of spotters in the United Kingdom since 1974.
tornado: These each have different mechanisms which influence their development—however, most tornadoes follow a pattern similar to this one.
tornado: Most tornadoes from supercells follow a recognizable life cycle which begins when increasing rainfall drags with it an area of quickly descending air known as the rear flank downdraft (RFD).
tornado: associated with a mesocyclone) waterspouts.
tornado: Doppler weather radar data, photogrammetry, and ground swirl patterns (cycloidal marks) may also be analyzed to determine intensity and award a rating.
tornado: Popularly reported sounds include a freight train, rushing rapids or waterfall, a nearby jet engine, or combinations of these.
tornado: Reasons for this include the region's high population density, poor construction quality, and lack of tornado safety knowledge.
tornado: A multi-vortex structure can occur in almost any circulation, but is very often observed in intense tornadoes.
tornado: Even experienced storm observers may not be able to tell the difference between a low-hanging cloud and a wedge tornado from a distance.
tornado: The United Kingdom has at least 34 tornadoes per year and possibly as many as 50.
tornado: Before the 1950s, the only method of detecting a tornado was by someone seeing it on the ground.
tornado: An F5 or EF5 tornado, the strongest category, rips buildings off their foundations and can deform large skyscrapers.
tornado: The vast majority of intense tornadoes occur with a wall cloud on the backside of a supercell.
tornado: In addition to tornadoes, very heavy rain, frequent lightning, strong wind gusts, and hail are common in such storms.
tornado: Tornados are sometimes colloquially referred to as cyclones.
tornado: Temperature tends to decrease and moisture content to increase in the immediate vicinity of a tornado.
tornado: For a vortex to be classified as a tornado, it must be in contact with both the ground and the cloud base.
tornado: They usually cause small areas of heavier rotational wind damage among areas of straight-line wind damage.
tornado: Barring a low-level boundary, tornadogenesis is highly unlikely unless a rear flank downdraft occurs, which is usually visibly evidenced by evaporation of cloud adjacent to a corner of a wall cloud.
tornado: The United States averages about 1,200 tornadoes per year, followed by Canada, averaging 62 reported per year.
tornado: They have relatively weak winds, smooth laminar walls, and typically travel very slowly.
tornado: Most tornadoes produce strong winds at the surface while the visible funnel is still above the ground, so it is difficult to discern the difference between a funnel cloud and a tornado from a distance.
tornado: Scanning the Skies: A History of Tornado Forecasting.
tornado: In 1953, it was confirmed that hook echoes were associated with tornadoes.
tornado: Gulf of Mexico and Mediterranean Sea) increases atmospheric moisture content.
tornado: Weather radios provide an alarm when a severe weather advisory is issued for the local area, mainly available only in the United States.
tornado: Although the condensation funnel may not extend all the way to the ground, if associated surface winds are greater than 64 km/h (40 mph), the circulation is considered a tornado.
tornado: In the United States, tornadoes are around 500 feet (150 m) across on average.
tornado: A 2007 reanalysis of the path suggests that the tornado may have begun 15 miles (24 km) further west than previously thought.
tornado: Most tornadoes in the United Kingdom are weak, but they are occasionally destructive.
tornado: This belief is partly inspired by widely circulated video captured during the 1991 tornado outbreak near Andover, Kansas, where a news crew and several other people took shelter under an overpass on the Kansas Turnpike and safely rode out a tornado as it passed nearby.
tornado: As of 2026, it is considered to be the deadliest single tornado in United States history (695 dead).
tornado: Sometimes, in intense supercells, tornadoes can develop cyclically.
tornado: This unique topography allows for frequent collisions of warm and cold air, the conditions that breed strong, long-lived storms throughout the year.
tornado: Tornadogenesis is most likely at the interface of the updraft and rear flank downdraft, and requires a balance between the outflow and inflow.
tornado: The similar TORRO scale ranges from T0 for extremely weak tornadoes to T11 for the most powerful known tornadoes.
tornado: Opening windows may instead increase the severity of the tornado's damage.
tornado: Many other aspects of tornado formation (such as why some storms form tornadoes while others do not, or what precise role downdrafts, temperature, and moisture play in tornado formation) are still poorly understood.
tornado: non-tornadic mesocyclones is not yet well known and is the focus of much research.
tornado: Occasionally, a single storm will produce more than one tornado, either simultaneously or in succession.
tornado: A landspout, or dust-tube tornado, is a tornado not associated with a mesocyclone.
tornado: Usually, the funnel cloud begins causing damage on the ground (becoming a tornado) within a few minutes of the RFD reaching the ground.
tornado: Storm spotters seek to determine whether a storm seen at a distance is a supercell.
tornado: More than 300 people, possibly as many as 330, were killed.
tornado: North America is a large continent that extends from the tropics north into arctic areas, and has no major east–west mountain range to block air flow between these two areas.
tornado: Tornado Alley: Monster Storms of the Great Plains.
tornado: Slow-moving funnels, which ingest a considerable amount of debris and dirt, are usually darker, taking on the color of debris.
tornado: The climate-tornado link is confounded by the forces affecting larger patterns and by the local, nuanced nature of tornadoes.
tornado: By recognizing these radar signatures, meteorologists could detect thunderstorms probably producing tornadoes from several miles away.
tornado: Heavily illustrated.
tornado: ISBN 0-19-510552-4.
tornado: Tornadoes which occur near the time of sunset can be many different colors, appearing in hues of yellow, orange, and pink.
tornado: A period of several successive days with tornado outbreaks in the same general area (spawned by multiple weather systems) is a tornado outbreak sequence, occasionally called an extended tornado outbreak.
tornado: An old belief is that the southwest corner of a basement provides the most protection during a tornado.
tornado: In more recent years, the 2021 Western Kentucky tornado was on the ground continuously for 165.6 miles (266.5 km).
tornado: Spring and fall experience peaks of activity as those are the seasons when stronger winds, wind shear, and atmospheric instability are present.
tornado: As a general rule, no area is safe from tornadoes, though some areas are more susceptible than others.
tornado: Tornadoes are focused in the right front quadrant of landfalling tropical cyclones, which tend to occur in the late summer and autumn.
tornado: In the United States and a few other countries, Doppler weather radar stations are used.
tornado: Doppler radar data, photogrammetry, and ground swirl patterns (trochoidal marks) may also be analyzed to determine intensity and assign a rating.
tornado: Some tornadoes have been scanned by mobile Doppler radar units, which can provide a good estimate of the tornado's wind speed.
tornado: Among many meteorologists, the "funnel cloud" term is strictly defined as a rotating cloud which is not associated with strong winds at the surface, and condensation funnel is a broad term for any rotating cloud below a cumuliform cloud.
tornado: Authorities such as the Storm Prediction Center in the United States advise having a pre-determined plan should a tornado warning be issued.
tornado: When storms are distant from a radar, only areas high within the storm are observed and the important areas below are not sampled.
tornado: Lighting conditions are a major factor in the appearance of a tornado.
tornado: However, there is a wide range of tornado sizes.
tornado: Tornadoes emit widely on the acoustics spectrum and the sounds are caused by multiple mechanisms.
tornado: In contrast, tornadic waterspouts are stronger tornadoes over water.
tornado: Tornadoes also produce a detectable seismic signature, and research continues on isolating it and understanding the process.
tornado: Evidence of a supercell is based on the storm's shape and structure, and cloud tower features such as a hard and vigorous updraft tower, a persistent, large overshooting top, a hard anvil (especially when backsheared against strong upper level winds), and a corkscrew look or striations.
tornado: Retrieved 5 May 2022.
tornado: Most significant tornadoes form under the storm's updraft base, which is rain-free, making them visible.
tornado: The Fujita scale, Enhanced Fujita scale (EF), and International Fujita scale rate tornadoes by damage caused.
tornado: It was likely an F5 on the Fujita Scale, although this tornado pre-dates the use of scales for rating tornado intensity.
tornado: In many cases, intense tornadoes and thunderstorms exhibit an increased and anomalous dominance of positive polarity CG discharges.
tornado: Storm spotters are required because radar systems such as NEXRAD  detect signatures that suggest the presence of tornadoes, rather than tornadoes as such.
tornado: The convergence of warm air in the updraft and cool air causes a rotating wall cloud to form.
tornado: Grazulis, Thomas P.
tornado: Tornadoes in the Great Plains can turn red because of the reddish tint of the soil, and tornadoes in mountainous areas can travel over snow-covered ground, turning white.
tornado: A tornado often occurs as this happens or shortly afterwards.
tornado: They occur most commonly in the Florida Keys and in the northern Adriatic Sea.
tornado: These spiraling columns of air often develop in tropical areas close to the equator, and are less common at high latitudes.
tornado: They can, however, produce significant damage.
tornado: Funnel clouds and small tornadoes are reported as whistling, whining, humming, or the buzzing of innumerable bees or electricity, or more or less harmonic, whereas many tornadoes are reported as a continuous, deep rumbling, or an irregular sound of "noise".
tornado: central and southern plains during El Niño, and more occur during La Niña, than in years when temperatures in the Pacific are relatively stable.
tornado: Tornadoes may also develop without wall clouds, under flanking lines and on the leading edge.
tornado: Increased westerly flow off the Rockies force the formation of a dry line when the flow aloft is strong, while the Gulf of Mexico fuels abundant low-level moisture in the southerly flow to its east.
tornado: Fair weather waterspouts are less severe but far more common, and are similar to dust devils and landspouts.
tornado: The rate of occurrence drops off quickly with increasing strength—less than 1% are violent tornadoes (EF4, T8 or stronger).
tornado: However, with the advent of weather radar, areas near a local office could get advance warning of severe weather.
tornado: In Canada, a similar network of volunteer weather watchers, called Canwarn, helps spot severe weather, with more than 1,000 volunteers.
tornado: Reliably predicting tornado intensity and longevity remains a problem, as do details affecting characteristics of a tornado during its life cycle and tornadolysis.
tornado: Pybus, Nani (Spring 2016).
tornado: Radar may give a warning before there is any visual evidence of a tornado or an imminent one, but ground truth from an observer can give definitive information.
tornado: Though usually weaker than classic tornadoes, they can produce strong winds which could cause serious damage.
tornado: They most often form from smoke issuing from a power plant's smokestack.
tornado: However, the step from supercell, or other respective formative processes, to tornadogenesis and the prediction of tornadic vs.
tornado: The pace of research is partly constrained by the number of observations that can be taken; gaps in information about the wind, pressure, and moisture content throughout the local atmosphere; and the computing power available for simulation.
tornado: Multiple-vortex tornadoes can appear as a family of swirls circling a common center, or they may be completely obscured by condensation, dust, and debris, appearing to be a single funnel.
tornado: An F0 or EF0 tornado, the weakest category, damages trees, but not substantial structures.
tornado: Dust kicked up by the winds of the parent thunderstorm, heavy rain and hail, and the darkness of night are all factors that can reduce the visibility of tornadoes.
tornado: However, a highway overpass is a dangerous place during a tornado, and the subjects of the video remained safe due to an unlikely combination of events: the storm in question was a weak tornado, the tornado did not directly strike the overpass, and the overpass itself was of a unique design.
tornado: Small-scale, tornado-like circulations can occur near any intense surface heat source.
tornado: For example, an increase in the sea surface temperature of a source region (e.g.
tornado: Tornadoes are also not the only source of such sounds in severe thunderstorms; any strong, damaging wind, a severe hail volley, or continuous thunder in a thunderstorm may produce a roaring sound.
tornado: Most tornadoes have wind speeds less than 180 kilometers per hour (110 miles per hour), are about 80 meters (250 feet) across, and travel several kilometers (a few miles) before dissipating.
tornado: A violent tornado can destroy a house whether its windows are open or closed.
tornado: Numerical modeling also provides new insights as observations and new discoveries are integrated into our physical understanding and then tested in computer simulations which validate new notions as well as produce entirely new theoretical findings, many of which are otherwise unattainable.
tornado: The "stovepipe" classification is also used for this type of tornado if it otherwise fits that profile.
tornado: Tornadoes can be detected before or as they occur through the use of pulse-Doppler radar by recognizing patterns in velocity and reflectivity data, such as hook echoes or debris balls, as well as through the efforts of storm spotters.
tornado: These devices measure the velocity and radial direction (towards or away from the radar) of the winds within a storm, and so can spot evidence of rotation in storms from over 160 km (100 miles) away.
tornado: Steam devils are very rare.
tornado: Tornadoes in the dissipating stage can resemble narrow tubes or ropes, and often curl or twist into complex shapes.
tornado: The low pressured atmosphere at the base of the tornado is essential to the endurance of the system.
tornado: Landspouts also create a distinctively laminar cloud of dust when they make contact with the ground, due to their differing mechanics from true mesoform tornadoes.
tornado: This is mostly due to the unique geography of the continent.
tornado: The phenomenon can occur over water, when cold arctic air passes over relatively warm water.
tornado: Tornados can even form during snow squalls events with no rain present.
tornado: However, in meteorology, the word cyclone specifically refers to a large weather system that rotates around a center of low atmospheric pressure counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere.
tornado: Occasionally, the old (occluded) mesocyclone and the new mesocyclone produce a tornado at the same time.
tornado: For example, the Birmingham tornado of 2005 and the London tornado of 2006 both registered F2 on the Fujita scale and both caused significant damage and injury.
tornado: Because they are not connected with a cloud base, there is some debate as to whether or not gustnadoes are tornadoes.
tornado: They form over water similarly to mesocyclonic tornadoes, or are stronger tornadoes which cross over water.
tornado: Chronicles of Oklahoma.
tornado: In the case of violent tornadoes, only a small portion of the path is of violent intensity, most of the higher intensity from subvortices.
tornado: Those that form in dry environments can be nearly invisible, marked only by swirling debris at the base of the funnel.
