tropical_rainforest: If these practices are performed appropriately this can be beneficial for both locals and the present flora and fauna.
tropical_rainforest: Central American coffee exports were worth US$3 billion in 1970.
tropical_rainforest: Revenue from park-entrance fees and similar sources can be utilised specifically to pay for the protection and management of environmentally sensitive areas.
tropical_rainforest: The tropics take a major role in reducing atmospheric carbon dioxide.
tropical_rainforest: The root for this remarkable speciation has been a query of scientists and ecologists for years.
tropical_rainforest: The soil is characteristically nutrient-poor and acidic.
tropical_rainforest: The emergent layer contains a small number of very large trees, called emergents, which grow above the general canopy, reaching heights of 45–55 m, although on occasion a few species will grow to 70–80 m tall.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests exhibit high levels of biodiversity.
tropical_rainforest: Similarly, oxisols are acidic, old, typically reddish, highly weathered and leached, however are well drained compared to ultisols.
tropical_rainforest: Up to 90% of the typical Yanamomo diet comes from farmed plants.
tropical_rainforest: The issue arising is between the independent farmer providing for his family and the needs and wants of the globe as a whole.
tropical_rainforest: As an adaptation to these low light levels, understory plants have often evolved much larger leaves.
tropical_rainforest: On 18 January 2007, FUNAI reported also that it had confirmed the presence of 67 different uncontacted tribes in Brazil, up from 40 in 2005.
tropical_rainforest: Several unique faunal species inhabit this layer such as the crowned eagle (Stephanoaetus coronatus), the king colobus (Colobus polykomos), and the large flying fox (Pteropus vampyrus).
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests are among the most threatened ecosystems globally due to large-scale fragmentation as a result of human activity.
tropical_rainforest: Many forms of fungi growing here help decay the animal and plant waste.
tropical_rainforest: The seasonal patterns in respiration are controlled by leaf litter fall and precipitation, the driving force moving the decomposable carbon from the litter to the soil.
tropical_rainforest: The physical properties of soil control the tree turnover rates whereas chemical properties such as available nitrogen and phosphorus control forest growth rates.
tropical_rainforest: The initial disturbance is often a natural phenomenon or human caused event.
tropical_rainforest: The province of Irian Jaya or West Papua in the island of New Guinea is home to an estimated 44 uncontacted tribal groups.
tropical_rainforest: These resources are important to developing nations and their extraction is often given priority to encourage economic growth.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforest conservation ranges from strict habitat preservation to finding sustainable management techniques for people living in tropical rainforests.
tropical_rainforest: The typical tropical forest may become a carbon source by the 2060s.
tropical_rainforest: Ultisols are known as well weathered, acidic red clay soils, deficient in major nutrients such as calcium and potassium.
tropical_rainforest: In many tropical countries such as Costa Rica these deforested lands have been abandoned and forests have been allowed to regenerate through ecological succession.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical forests have supplied 250 cultivated kinds of fruit, compared to only 20 for temperate forests.
tropical_rainforest: In fact, when looking at the level of individual swidden plots a number of traditional farming practices are considered beneficial.
tropical_rainforest: However, the specifics of the origin of rainforests remain uncertain due to an incomplete fossil record.
tropical_rainforest: These forests usually fall under tropical monsoon or tropical savanna climates.
tropical_rainforest: Most tropical soils are characterized by significant leaching and poor nutrients, however there are some areas that contain fertile soils.
tropical_rainforest: Species which "lose" the competition may either become extinct or find a new niche.
tropical_rainforest: The Dayaks are a particularly interesting group as they are noted for their traditional headhunting culture.
tropical_rainforest: Peoples have inhabited the rainforests for tens of thousands of years and have remained so elusive that only recently have some tribes been discovered.
tropical_rainforest: These soils are typically phosphorus limited, which inhibits net primary productivity or the uptake of carbon.
tropical_rainforest: Habitat fragmentation caused by geological processes such as volcanism and climate change occurred in the past, and have been identified as important drivers of speciation.
tropical_rainforest: These roots also aid in water uptake and storage, increase surface area for gas exchange, and collect leaf litter for added nutrition.
tropical_rainforest: The tropics (most notably the Amazon rainforest) are called carbon sinks.
tropical_rainforest: Emergent or canopy trees collapse, for example, causing gaps to form.
tropical_rainforest: As major carbon reducers and carbon and soil methane storages, their destruction contributes to increasing global energy trapping, atmospheric gases.
tropical_rainforest: International policy has also introduced a market incentive program called Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) for companies and governments to outset their carbon emissions through financial investments into rainforest conservation.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests are hot and wet.
tropical_rainforest: A number of theories have been developed for why and how the tropics can be so diverse.
tropical_rainforest: Depending on latitude, the lower limit of montane rainforests on large mountains is generally between 1500 and 2500 m while the upper limit is usually from 2400 to 3300 m.
tropical_rainforest: Many indigenous peoples around the world have inhabited rainforests for millennia, relying on them for sustenance and shelter, but face challenges from modern economic activities.
tropical_rainforest: Rainforest soils are often thin and leached of many minerals, and the heavy rainfall can quickly leach nutrients from area cleared for cultivation.
tropical_rainforest: The abundant rainfall results in nutrient-poor, leached soils, which profoundly affect the flora and fauna adapted to these conditions.
tropical_rainforest: Scientists are still skeptical of whether or not this theory is legitimate.
tropical_rainforest: Deposits of precious metals (gold, silver, coltan) and fossil fuels (oil and natural gas) occur underneath rainforests globally.
tropical_rainforest: A simulation was performed in which all rainforest in Africa were removed.
tropical_rainforest: Despite these efforts, tropical rainforests continue to face significant threats from deforestation and climate change, highlighting the ongoing challenge of balancing conservation with human development needs.
tropical_rainforest: However, these are not rainforest dwellers, rather they are dwellers in cleared farmland that make forays into the rainforest.
tropical_rainforest: Other people described as rainforest dwellers are hunter-gatherers who subsist in large part by trading high value forest products such as hides, feathers, and honey with agricultural people living outside the forest.
tropical_rainforest: A single hectare of rainforest may contain 42,000 different species of insect, up to 807 trees of 313 species and 1,500 species of higher plants.
tropical_rainforest: With the end of the glacial period and increase in atmospheric humidity, rainforest began to expand and the refuges reconnected.
tropical_rainforest: Many seedlings that will grow to the canopy level are in the understory.
tropical_rainforest: Most of the nutrients within the soil of a tropical rainforest occur near the surface because of the rapid turnover time and decomposition of organisms and leaves.
tropical_rainforest: Because of this, the buttress roots occur at the surface so the trees can maximize uptake and actively compete with the rapid uptake of other trees.
tropical_rainforest: Amongst this group are the Efe, Aka, Twa, Baka, and Mbuti people of Central Africa.
tropical_rainforest: Most tropical rainforests today are on fragments of the Mesozoic era supercontinent of Gondwana.
tropical_rainforest: Much of the genetic variation used in evading the damage caused by new pests is still derived from resistant wild stock.
tropical_rainforest: Tourism has had a positive effect on wildlife preservation and protection efforts, notably in Africa but also in South America, Asia, Australia, and the South Pacific.
tropical_rainforest: This theory has been the subject of debate.
tropical_rainforest: The fauna is similar to that found in the emergent layer, but more diverse.
tropical_rainforest: Agriculture on formerly forested land is not without difficulties.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests have existed on earth for hundreds of millions of years.
tropical_rainforest: It is estimated that perhaps 75% of the tree species at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica are dependent on canopy opening for seed germination or for growth beyond sapling size, for example.
tropical_rainforest: However, the term pygmy is considered pejorative so many tribes prefer not to be labeled as such.
tropical_rainforest: Only the emergent layer is unique to tropical rainforests, while the others are also found in temperate rainforests.
tropical_rainforest: Around 40% to 75% of all biotic species are indigenous to the rainforests.
tropical_rainforest: People such as the Yanomamo of the Amazon, utilize slash-and-burn agriculture to overcome these limitations and enable them to push deep into what were previously rainforest environments.
tropical_rainforest: Beneficial practices like soil restoration and conservation can benefit the small farmer and allow better production on smaller parcels of land.
tropical_rainforest: However, tropical rainforests are threatened by human activities, such as logging and agricultural expansion, leading to habitat fragmentation and loss.
tropical_rainforest: The concentration of iron and aluminium oxides by the laterization process gives the oxisols a bright red color and sometimes produces minable deposits (e.g., bauxite).
tropical_rainforest: Their dense insect population and variety of trees and higher plants are notable.
tropical_rainforest: This high level of precipitation often results in poor soils due to leaching of soluble nutrients in the ground.
tropical_rainforest: However, stratification is not always clear.
tropical_rainforest: Rainforests are dynamic and many changes affect the structure of the forest.
tropical_rainforest: A species with similar food items but different feeding times is an example of niche partitioning.
tropical_rainforest: These regenerating young successional forests are called secondary forests or second-growth forests.
tropical_rainforest: In general, climatic patterns consist of warm temperatures and high annual rainfall.
tropical_rainforest: Two-thirds of all flowering plants can be found in rainforests.
tropical_rainforest: For example, the use of shade trees and fallowing all help preserve soil organic matter, which is a critical factor in the maintenance of soil fertility in the deeply weathered and leached soils common in the Amazon.
tropical_rainforest: The reddish color of both soils is the result of heavy heat and moisture forming oxides of iron and aluminium, which are insoluble in water and not taken up readily by plants.
tropical_rainforest: Examples include leopard (Panthera pardus), poison dart frogs (Dendrobates sp.), ring-tailed coati (Nasua nasua), boa constrictor (Boa constrictor), and many species of Coleoptera.
tropical_rainforest: An increase in tourism has increased economic support, allowing more revenue to go into the protection of the habitat.
tropical_rainforest: This is the separation and rationing of necessary resources by utilizing different habitats, food sources, cover or general behavioral differences.
tropical_rainforest: Moist seasonal tropical forest
tropical_rainforest: Climate change has been significantly contributed to by the destruction of the rainforests.
tropical_rainforest: This trend requires close monitoring.
tropical_rainforest: Some examples of emergents include: Hydrochorea elegans, Dipteryx panamensis, Hieronyma alchorneoides, Hymenolobium mesoamericanum, Lecythis ampla and Terminalia oblonga.
tropical_rainforest: Also, the large surface areas these roots create provide support and stability to rainforests trees, which commonly grow to significant heights.
tropical_rainforest: They are found in parts of South America, in Central America and around the Caribbean, in coastal West Africa, parts of the Indian subcontinent, and across much of Indochina.
tropical_rainforest: Natural disturbances include hurricanes, volcanic eruptions, river movements or an event as small as a fallen tree that creates gaps in the forest.
tropical_rainforest: These rainforests are renowned for their significant biodiversity.
tropical_rainforest: They are crucial for global ecological functions, including carbon sequestration and climate regulation.
tropical_rainforest: Some groups of hunter-gatherers have exploited rainforest on a seasonal basis but dwelt primarily in adjacent savanna and open forest environments where food is much more abundant.
tropical_rainforest: Respiration rates are highest early in the wet season because the recent dry season results in a large percentage of leaf litter and thus a higher percentage of organic matter being leached into the soil.
tropical_rainforest: The breakup of Gondwana left tropical rainforests located in five major regions of the world: tropical America, Africa, Southeast Asia, Madagascar, and New Guinea, with smaller outliers in Australia.
tropical_rainforest: Away from riverbanks, swamps and clearings, where dense undergrowth is found, the forest floor is relatively clear of vegetation because of the low sunlight penetration.
tropical_rainforest: Despite the negative effects of tourism in the tropical rainforests, there are also several important positive effects.
tropical_rainforest: In Ghana, a West African nation, deforestation from decades of mining activity left about 12% of the country's original rainforest intact.
tropical_rainforest: The clay content of ultisols is high, making it difficult for water to penetrate and flow through.
tropical_rainforest: International policies, such as the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD and REDD+) programs, aim to curb deforestation and forest degradation.
tropical_rainforest: During the decomposition process the microbial community is respiring, taking up oxygen and releasing carbon dioxide.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests have been called the "world's largest pharmacy", because over one quarter of natural medicines have been discovered within them.
tropical_rainforest: Direct competition will often lead to one species dominating another by some advantage, ultimately driving it to extinction.
tropical_rainforest: In 2019 they took up a third less carbon than they did in the 1990s, due to higher temperatures, droughts and deforestation.
tropical_rainforest: Described as the "world's largest pharmacy", over a quarter of natural medicines have been discovered in them.
tropical_rainforest: Conservation efforts are diverse, focusing on both preservation and sustainable management.
tropical_rainforest: This high rate of decomposition is the result of phosphorus levels in the soils, precipitation, high temperatures and the extensive microorganism communities.
tropical_rainforest: Seasonal tropical forests with tropical monsoon or savanna climates are sometimes included in the broader definition.
tropical_rainforest: Soil chemical and physical characteristics are strongly related to above ground productivity and forest structure and dynamics.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rain forests have been subjected to heavy logging and agricultural clearance throughout the 20th century, and the area covered by rainforests around the world is rapidly shrinking.
tropical_rainforest: High temperatures and precipitation increase decomposition rate, which allows plant litter to rapidly decay in tropical regions, releasing nutrients that are immediately taken up by plants through surface or ground waters.
tropical_rainforest: On younger substrates, especially of volcanic origin, tropical soils may be quite fertile.
tropical_rainforest: In tropical rainforests, these same natural disturbances have been well documented in the fossil record, and are credited with encouraging speciation and endemism.
tropical_rainforest: Average annual rainfall is no less than 1,680 mm (66 in) and can exceed 10 m (390 in) although it typically lies between 1,750 mm (69 in) and 3,000 mm (120 in).
tropical_rainforest: Rainforests are home to half of all the living animal and plant species on the planet.
tropical_rainforest: According to Holdridge's classification of tropical ecosystems, true tropical rainforests have an annual rainfall greater than 2 m and annual temperature greater than 24 degrees Celsius, with a potential evapotranspiration ratio (PET) value of <0.25.
tropical_rainforest: Mean monthly temperatures exceed 18 °C (64 °F) during all months of the year.
tropical_rainforest: Some trees in these forests drop some or all of their leaves during the winter dry season, thus they are sometimes called "tropical mixed forest".
tropical_rainforest: Primary productivity or wood production is highest in western Amazon and lowest in eastern Amazon which contains heavily weathered soils classified as oxisols.
tropical_rainforest: Food resources within the forest are extremely dispersed due to the high biological diversity and what food does exist is largely restricted to the canopy and requires considerable energy to obtain.
tropical_rainforest: Some notable indigenous peoples of the Americas, or Amerindians, include the Huaorani, Ya̧nomamö, and Kayapo people of the Amazon.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical forest ecology- dynamics, composition, and function- are sensitive to changes in climate especially changes in rainfall.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests have a long history of ecological succession, influenced by natural events and human activities.
tropical_rainforest: In the mid-1980s and 1990s, 40 million tons of bananas were consumed worldwide each year, along with 13 million tons of mango.
tropical_rainforest: There is a diversity of forest people in Asia, including the Lumad peoples of the Philippines and the Penan and Dayak people of Borneo.
tropical_rainforest: In recent years ecotourism in the tropics has increased.
tropical_rainforest: The canopy is the primary layer of the forest, forming a roof over the two remaining layers.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests exhibit a vast diversity in plant and animal species.
tropical_rainforest: The understory is home to a number of birds, small mammals, insects, reptiles, and predators.
tropical_rainforest: These epiphytic plants attach to trunks and branches and obtain water and minerals from rain and debris that collects on the supporting plants.
tropical_rainforest: The simulation showed an increase in atmospheric temperature by 2.5 to 5 degrees Celsius.
tropical_rainforest: However, fast human driven habitat destruction is suspected to be one of the major causes of species extinction.
tropical_rainforest: The soil contains microbial organisms such as bacteria, which break down leaf litter and other organic matter into inorganic forms of carbon usable by plants through a process called decomposition.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical freshwater swamp forests, or "flooded forests", are found in Amazon basin (the Várzea) and elsewhere.
tropical_rainforest: Ecotourism can be an incentive for conservation, especially when it triggers positive economic change.
tropical_rainforest: Such people, however, obtain their food primarily from farm plots cleared from the forest and hunt and forage within the forest to supplement this.
tropical_rainforest: Only plants adapted to low light can grow in this region.
tropical_rainforest: Revenue from taxation and tourism provides an additional incentive for governments to contribute revenue to the protection of the forest.
tropical_rainforest: Rainforest Action Network
Rain Forest Info from Blue Planet Biomes
Passport to Knowledge Rainforests
Tropical Forests, Project Regeneration, 2021.
tropical_rainforest: Several biomes may appear similar to, or merge via ecotones with, tropical rainforest:
tropical_rainforest: Each layer is a unique biotic community containing different plants and animals adapted for life in that particular strata.
tropical_rainforest: Niche partitioning is the other option for a species.
tropical_rainforest: These include the emergent layer with towering trees, the densely populated canopy layer, the understory layer rich in wildlife, and the forest floor, which is sparse due to low light penetration.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests are a type of tropical moist broadleaf forest, that includes the more extensive seasonal tropical forests.
tropical_rainforest: The understory layer lies between the canopy and the forest floor.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests are located around and near the equator, therefore having what is called an equatorial climate characterized by three major climatic parameters: temperature, rainfall, and dry season intensity.
tropical_rainforest: The decomposition rate can be evaluated by measuring the uptake of oxygen.
tropical_rainforest: While rainforests are becoming increasingly rare, people are travelling to nations that still have this diverse habitat.
tropical_rainforest: The seasonality of rainforests affects the reproductive patterns of amphibians, and this in turn can directly affect the species of reptiles that feed on these groups, particularly species with specialized feeding, since these are less likely to use alternative resources.
tropical_rainforest: It contains the majority of the largest trees, typically 30–45 m in height.
tropical_rainforest: Genetic evidence suggests speciation had occurred in certain taxa 1–2 million years ago, preceding the Pleistocene.
tropical_rainforest: They are a subset of the tropical forest biome that occurs roughly within the 28° latitudes (in the torrid zone between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn).
tropical_rainforest: These are found in cooler-climate mountainous areas, becoming known as cloud forests at higher elevations.
tropical_rainforest: Soils throughout the tropical rainforests fall into two classifications which include the ultisols and oxisols.
tropical_rainforest: Forests in New Guinea alone contain 251 tree species with edible fruits, of which only 43 had been established as cultivated crops by 1985.
tropical_rainforest: They are home to 40–75% of all species globally, including half of the world's animal and plant species, and two-thirds of all flowering plant species.
tropical_rainforest: The forest floor, the bottom-most layer, receives only 2% of the sunlight.
tropical_rainforest: The traditional agricultural system practiced by tribes in the Amazon is based on swidden cultivation (also known as slash-and-burn or shifting cultivation) and is considered a relatively benign disturbance.
tropical_rainforest: Oxisols, infertile, deeply weathered and severely leached, have developed on the ancient Gondwanan shields.
tropical_rainforest: Only about 5% of sunlight breaches the canopy to arrive at the understory causing true understory plants to seldom grow to 3 m (10 feet).
tropical_rainforest: Openings in the forest canopy are widely recognized as important for the establishment and growth of rainforest trees.
tropical_rainforest: Nutrient recycling is important because below ground resource availability controls the above ground biomass and community structure of tropical rainforests.
tropical_rainforest: Such increased awareness can induce more environmentally conscious behavior.
tropical_rainforest: Other parameters that affect tropical rainforests are carbon dioxide concentrations, solar radiation, and nitrogen availability.
tropical_rainforest: However, the abundance of rainfall changes throughout the year creating distinct moist and dry seasons.
tropical_rainforest: The densest areas of biodiversity are found in the forest canopy, as it often supports a rich flora of epiphytes, including orchids, bromeliads, mosses and lichens.
tropical_rainforest: However, most lowland tropical forests can be classified as tropical moist or wet forests, which differ in regards to rainfall.
tropical_rainforest: Human land use practices have led to large-scale deforestation.
tropical_rainforest: Instead of penetrating to deeper soil layers, buttress roots create a widespread root network at the surface for more efficient uptake of nutrients in a very nutrient poor and competitive environment.
tropical_rainforest: The vegetation at this layer generally consists of shade-tolerant shrubs, herbs, small trees, and large woody vines which climb into the trees to capture sunlight.
tropical_rainforest: Half of the rainfall in the Amazon area is produced by the forests.
tropical_rainforest: Some action has been taken by suggesting fallow periods of the land allowing secondary forest to grow and replenish the soil.
tropical_rainforest: The soils of the eastern and central Amazon as well as the Southeast Asian Rainforest are old and mineral poor whereas the soils of the western Amazon (Ecuador and Peru) and volcanic areas of Costa Rica are young and mineral rich.
tropical_rainforest: Locals are benefiting from the additional income brought in by visitors, as well areas deemed interesting for visitors are often conserved.
tropical_rainforest: In addition to the bacteria and other microorganisms, there are an abundance of other decomposers such as fungi and termites that aid in the process as well.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical forests are classified by the amount of rainfall received each year, which has allowed ecologists to define differences in these forests that look so similar in structure.
tropical_rainforest: Mining and drilling can require large amounts of land development, directly causing deforestation.
tropical_rainforest: This issue has seen little improvement because no plan has been established for all parties to be aided.
tropical_rainforest: Moist seasonal tropical forests receive high overall rainfall with a warm summer wet season and a cooler winter dry season.
tropical_rainforest: The forest floor also contains decaying plant and animal matter, which disappears quickly, because the warm, humid conditions promote rapid decay.
tropical_rainforest: These indigenous peoples are greatly threatened by loggers in search for old-growth tropical hardwoods like Ipe, Cumaru and Wenge, and by farmers who are looking to expand their land, for cattle(meat), and soybeans, which are used to feed cattle in Europe and China.
tropical_rainforest: A common feature of many tropical rainforests is the distinct buttress roots of trees.
tropical_rainforest: This added stability allows these trees to withstand the impacts of severe storms, thus reducing the occurrence of fallen trees.
tropical_rainforest: However, not all tropical rainforests occur on nutrient poor soils, but on nutrient rich floodplains and volcanic soils located in the Andean foothills, and volcanic areas of Southeast Asia, Africa, and Central America.
tropical_rainforest: Pygmies who live in Southeast Asia are, amongst others, referred to as "Negrito".
tropical_rainforest: He called these patches of rainforest areas refuges and within these patches allopatric speciation occurred.
tropical_rainforest: In addition to extractive human uses, rain forests also have non-extractive uses that are frequently summarized as ecosystem services.
tropical_rainforest: Additionally, Amazonian soils are greatly weathered, making them devoid of minerals like phosphorus, potassium, calcium, and magnesium, which come from rock sources.
tropical_rainforest: Rain forests play an important role in maintaining biological diversity, sequestering and storing carbon, global climate regulation, disease control, and pollination.
tropical_rainforest: Many indigenous peoples around the world live within rainforests as hunter-gatherers, or subsist as part-time small scale farmers supplemented in large part by trading high-value forest products such as hides, feathers, and honey with agricultural people living outside the forests.
tropical_rainforest: Tall, broad-leaved evergreen trees are the dominant plants.
tropical_rainforest: Rapid bacterial decay prevents the accumulation of humus.
tropical_rainforest: It is suggested that the total arthropod species richness of the tropical canopy might be as high as 20 million.
tropical_rainforest: Tourism also has the potential to increase public appreciation of the environment and to spread awareness of environmental problems when it brings people into closer contact with the environment.
tropical_rainforest: Fresh human heads were required to perform certain rituals such as the Iban "kenyalang" and the Kenyah "mamat".
tropical_rainforest: The pygmy peoples are hunter-gatherer groups living in equatorial rainforests characterized by their short height (below one and a half meters, or 59 inches, on average).
tropical_rainforest: Tourism can contribute directly to the conservation of sensitive areas and habitat.
tropical_rainforest: Haffer proposed the explanation for speciation was the product of rainforest patches being separated by stretches of non-forest vegetation during the last glacial period.
tropical_rainforest: True rainforests usually occur in tropical rainforest climates where no dry season occurs; all months have an average precipitation of at least 60 mm (2.4 in).
tropical_rainforest: Additionally, these roots reduce soil erosion and maximize nutrient acquisition during heavy rains by diverting nutrient rich water flowing down the trunk into several smaller flows while also acting as a barrier to ground flow.
tropical_rainforest: It is likely that there may be many millions of species of plants, insects and microorganisms still undiscovered in tropical rainforests.
tropical_rainforest: These trees need to be able to withstand the hot temperatures and strong winds that occur above the canopy in some areas.
tropical_rainforest: With this addition, Brazil has now overtaken the island of New Guinea as the country having the largest number of uncontacted tribes.
tropical_rainforest: The structure of a tropical rainforest is stratified into layers, each hosting unique ecosystems.
tropical_rainforest: Ecotourism can include a variety of activities including animal viewing, scenic jungle tours and even viewing cultural sights and native villages.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests are dense and warm rainforests with high rainfall typically found between 10° north and south of the Equator.
tropical_rainforest: Tropical rainforests ecosystems are distinguished by their consistent, high temperatures, exceeding 18 °C (64 °F) monthly, and substantial annual rainfall.
