typhoon: Activity falls off significantly in November, although Typhoon Haiyan, the strongest Philippine typhoon on record, was a November typhoon.
typhoon: Even with perfect upper-level conditions and the required atmospheric instability, the lack of a surface focus will prevent the development of organized convection and a surface low.
typhoon: Along with a high storm frequency, this basin also features the most globally intense storms on record.
typhoon: On the other hand, Chinese records consistently assert that foreigners refer to typhoons as "black wind".
typhoon: Pacific typhoon season
Tropical cyclones in 2026
2026 Pacific typhoon season
Effects of tropical cyclones
China tropical cyclone rainfall climatology
For storms that have affected countries in this basin:
typhoon: The usage of 颱風 was not dominant until Chu Coching, the head of meteorology of the national academy from 1929 to 1936, declared it to be the standard term.
typhoon: Areas west of Japan and Korea tend to experience many fewer September–November tropical cyclone impacts during El Niño and neutral years.
typhoon: Whether it be a depression in the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) or monsoon trough, a broad surface front, or an outflow boundary, a low level feature with sufficient vorticity and convergence is required to begin tropical cyclogenesis.
typhoon: Storms that cross the date line from the central Pacific retain their original name, but the designation of hurricane becomes typhoon.
typhoon: New characters 風颱 were created to match the sound, no later than 1566.
typhoon: However, some of the deadliest typhoons in history have struck China.
typhoon: The rainfall in Pingtung County reached 2,327 millimetres (91.6 inches), breaking all rainfall records of any single place in Taiwan induced by a single typhoon, and making the cyclone the wettest known typhoon.
typhoon: When all names on the list are used, it will start again from the left-top corner.
typhoon: However, Philippines (PAGASA) retains its own naming list, which consists of both human names and other objects.
typhoon: Like other basins, they are steered by the subtropical ridge towards the west or northwest, with some systems recurving near and east of Japan.
typhoon: Southern China has the longest record of typhoon impacts for the region, with a thousand-year sample via documents within their archives.
typhoon: According to the statistics of the Joint Typhoon Warning Center, from 1950 to 2022, the Northwest Pacific generated an average of 26.5 named tropical cyclones each year, of which an average of 16.6 reached typhoon standard or above as defined by the Joint Typhoon Warning Center.
typhoon: The highest reliably-estimated maximum sustained winds on record for a typhoon was that of Typhoon Haiyan at 314 km/h (195 mph) shortly before its landfall in the central Philippines on November 8, 2013.
typhoon: When a typhoon causes damage in a region, the affected region can request for retiring the name in the next session of the ESCAP/WMO Typhoon Committee.
typhoon: For organizational purposes, the northern Pacific Ocean is divided into three regions: the eastern (North America to 140°W), central (140°W to 180°), and western (180° to 100°E).
typhoon: While these conditions are necessary for tropical cyclone formation, they do not guarantee that a tropical cyclone will form.
typhoon: Nearly one-third of the world's tropical cyclones form within the western Pacific.
typhoon: A typhoon has wind speed of 64–79 kn (74–91 mph; 119–146 km/h), a severe typhoon has winds of at least 80 knots (92 mph; 150 km/h), and a super typhoon has winds of at least 100 knots (120 mph; 190 km/h).
typhoon: During La Niña years, the formation of tropical cyclones, and the subtropical ridge position, shift westward across the western Pacific Ocean, which increases the landfall threat to China and greater intensity to Philippines.
typhoon: The earliest form in English was "touffon" (1588), later as touffon, tuffon, tufon, tuffin, tuffoon, tayfun, tiffoon, typhawn.
typhoon: In the Philippines, the most active season since 1945 for tropical cyclone strikes was 1993, when nineteen tropical cyclones moved through the country.
typhoon: Tropical storms also receive official names from RSMC Tokyo.
typhoon: Unlike tropical cyclones in other parts of the world, typhoons are not named after people.
typhoon: Not one Chinese historical record links 颱風 to an Arabic or foreign origin.
typhoon: On average, the northwestern Pacific features the most numerous and intense tropical cyclones globally.
typhoon: The Regional Specialized Meteorological Center (RSMC) for tropical cyclone forecasts is in Japan, with other tropical cyclone warning centres for the northwest Pacific in Hawaii (the Joint Typhoon Warning Center), the Philippines, and Hong Kong.
typhoon: A tropical depression is the lowest category that the Japan Meteorological Agency uses and is the term used for a tropical system that has wind speeds not exceeding 33 knots (38 mph; 61 km/h).
typhoon: Like any tropical cyclone, there are several main requirements for typhoon formation and development.
typhoon: Straight track (or straight runner).
typhoon: Typhoon paths follow three general directions.
typhoon: A parabolic recurving track.
typhoon: A minimum distance of 500 km (310 mi) from the equator is normally needed for tropical cyclogenesis.
typhoon: From point of origin, the storm follows a northerly direction, only affecting small islands.
typhoon: Portuguese traveler Fernão Mendes Pinto referred to a tufão in his memoir published in 1614.
typhoon: This region is referred to as the Northwestern Pacific Basin, accounting for almost one third of the world's tropical cyclones.
typhoon: However, the maximum sustained wind speed measurements that the JTWC uses are based on a 1-minute averaging period, akin to the U.S.'s National Hurricane Center and Central Pacific Hurricane Center.
typhoon: This claim contradicts the fact that the Cantonese term for typhoon was 風舊 [fuŋ kɐu] before the national promotion of 颱風.
typhoon: In French typhon was attested as storm in 1504.
typhoon: Those that form near the Marshall Islands find their way to Jeju Island, Korea.
typhoon: The 2004 Pacific typhoon season was the busiest for Okinawa since 1957.
typhoon: Most typhoons form in a region in the northwest Pacific known as typhoon alley, where the planet's most powerful tropical cyclones most frequently develop.
typhoon: A rare few storms, like Hurricane John, are redesignated as typhoons as they originated in the Eastern/Central Pacific and moved into the western Pacific.
typhoon: A general westward path affects the Philippines, southern China, Taiwan, and Vietnam.
typhoon: A new name will be decided by the region whose name was retired.
typhoon: A ten-year average of satellite determined precipitation showed that at least 30 percent of the annual rainfall in the northern Philippines could be traced to tropical cyclones, while the southern islands receive less than 10 percent of their annual rainfall from tropical cyclones.
typhoon: As the oscillation propagates from west to east, it leads to an eastward march in tropical cyclogenesis with time during that hemisphere's summer season.
typhoon: Normally, an ocean temperature of 26.5 °C (79.7 °F) spanning through a depth of at least 50 metres (160 ft) is considered the minimum to maintain the special mesocyclone that is the tropical cyclone.
typhoon: Only 15 seasons had 30 or more storms developing since reliable records began.
typhoon: The least activity seen in the northwest Pacific Ocean was during the 2010 Pacific typhoon season, when only 14 tropical storms and seven typhoons formed.
typhoon: In general, the westerly wind increases associated with the Madden–Julian oscillation lead to increased tropical cyclogenesis in all tropical cyclone basins.
typhoon: Some English linguists proposed the English word typhoon traced to the Cantonese pronunciation of 颱風 [tʰɔi fuŋ] (corresponding to Mandarin [tʰaɪ fɤŋ]), in turn the Cantonese word traced to Arabic.
typhoon: Pacific typhoons have formed year-round, with peak months from August to October.
typhoon: Storms recurving affect the eastern Philippines, eastern China, Taiwan, Korea, Japan, and the Russian Far East.
typhoon: Instead, they generally refer to animals, flowers, astrological signs, and a few personal names.
typhoon: The Philippines receive the brunt of the landfalls, with China and Japan being less often impacted.
typhoon: These warm waters are needed to maintain the warm core that fuels tropical systems.
typhoon: Typically with Pacific typhoons, there are two jets of outflow: one to the north ahead of an upper trough in the westerlies, and a second towards the equator.
typhoon: As a result, the JTWC's wind reports are higher than JMA's measurements, as the latter is based on a 10-minute averaging interval.
typhoon: Should the storm intensify further and reach sustained wind speeds of 48 knots (55 mph; 89 km/h) then it will be classified as a severe tropical storm.
typhoon: There was only one tropical cyclone that moved through the Philippines in 1958.
typhoon: Tropical cyclones form in any month of the year across the northwest Pacific Ocean and concentrate around June and November in the northern Indian Ocean.
typhoon: During El Niño years, the break in the subtropical ridge tends to lie near 130°E, which would favor the Japanese archipelago.
typhoon: About 85 to 90 percent of Pacific typhoons form within the monsoon trough.
typhoon: Typhoon may trace to 風癡 (meaning "winds which last long"), first attested in 1124 in China.
typhoon: Although the majority of storms form between June and November, a few storms may occur between December and May (although tropical cyclone formation is very rare during that time).
typhoon: A typhoon is a tropical cyclone that develops between 180° and 100°E in the Northern Hemisphere and which produces sustained hurricane-force winds of at least 119 km/h (74 mph).
typhoon: One of the most recent busy seasons was 2013.
typhoon: Within most of the northwestern Pacific, there are no official typhoon seasons as tropical cyclones form throughout the year.
typhoon: The most frequently impacted areas of the Philippines by tropical cyclones are northern and central Luzon and eastern Visayas.
typhoon: Taiwan has received the wettest known typhoon on record for the northwest Pacific tropical cyclone basins.
typhoon: Alternatively, some dictionaries propose that typhoon derived from (طوفان) tūfān, meaning storm in Persian and Hindustani.
typhoon: This makes this basin the most active on Earth.
typhoon: On average, twice per year twin tropical cyclones will form in the western Pacific Ocean, near the 5th parallel north and the 5th parallel south, along the same meridian, or line of longitude.
typhoon: The word was introduced to Mandarin Chinese in the inverted Mandarin order 颱風 and pronounced [tʰaɪ fɤŋ], later picked up by foreign sailors to appear as typhoon.
typhoon: Japan and some other East Asian countries also assign numbers to typhoons.
typhoon: Although the RSMC names each system, the main name list itself is coordinated among 18 countries that have territories threatened by typhoons each year.
typhoon: The United States' Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) unofficially classifies typhoons with wind speeds of at least 130 knots (150 mph; 240 km/h)—the equivalent of a strong Category 4 storm in the Saffir-Simpson scale—as super typhoons.
typhoon: Tropical cyclones in Malaysia
Tropical cyclones in Vietnam
Typhoons in the Korean peninsula
Typhoons in the Philippines
Typhoons in Japan
typhoon: When one basin is active, the other is normally quiet, and vice versa.
typhoon: The most active Western Pacific typhoon season was in 1964, when 39 storms of tropical storm strength formed.
typhoon: 風舊 (meaning "winds which last long") was first attested in 280, being the oldest Chinese term for typhoon.
typhoon: Within Guangdong in southern China, during the past thousand years, the most active decades for typhoon strikes were the 1660s and 1670s.
typhoon: Once the system's maximum sustained winds reach wind speeds of 64 knots (74 mph; 119 km/h), the JMA will designate the tropical cyclone as a typhoon—the highest category on its scale.
typhoon: It must be in sufficiently warm sea surface temperatures, atmospheric instability, high humidity in the lower-to-middle levels of the troposphere, have enough Coriolis effect to develop a low pressure centre, a pre-existing low level focus or disturbance, and a low vertical wind shear.
typhoon: The genesis and intensity of typhoons are also modulated by slow variation of the sea surface temperature and circulation features following a near-10-year frequency.
typhoon: The most intense storm based on minimum pressure was Typhoon Tip in the northwestern Pacific Ocean in 1979, which reached a minimum pressure of 870 hectopascals (26 inHg) and maximum sustained wind speeds of 165 knots (190 mph; 306 km/h).
typhoon: "Black wind" eventually entered the vocabulary of Jin Chinese as 黑老風 [xəʔ lo fəŋ].
typhoon: A tropical depression is upgraded to a tropical storm should its sustained wind speeds exceed 34 knots (39 mph; 63 km/h).
typhoon: The root of (طوفان) tūfān possibly traces to the Ancient Greek mythological creature Typhôn.
typhoon: The deadliest typhoon of the 20th century was Typhoon Nina, which killed nearly 100,000 in China in 1975 due to a flood that caused 12 reservoirs to fail.
typhoon: When the subtropical ridge shifts due to El Niño, so will the preferred tropical cyclone tracks.
typhoon: It was pronounced [hɔŋ tsʰi] in Hokkien Chinese at the time, but later evolved to [hɔŋ tʰai].
typhoon: The submitted names are arranged into a list, the names on the list will be used from up to down, from left to right.
typhoon: There is an inverse relationship between tropical cyclone activity in the western Pacific basin and the North Atlantic basin, however.
typhoon: The main reason for this appears to be the phase of the Madden–Julian oscillation, or MJO, which is normally in opposite modes between the two basins at any given time.
typhoon: There were 29 alternative terms for typhoon recorded in a chronicle in 1762, now mostly replaced by 颱風, although 風癡 or 風颱 continues to be used in Min Chinese- and Wu Chinese- speaking areas from Chaozhou, Guangdong to Taizhou, Zhejiang.
typhoon: Vertical wind shear of less than 10 metres per second (19 knots; 33 feet per second) between the ocean surface and the tropopause is required for tropical cyclone development.
typhoon: The area just northeast of the Philippines is the most active place on Earth for tropical cyclones to exist.
typhoon: However, Vietnam recognises its typhoon season as lasting from the beginning of June through to the end of November, with an average of four to six typhoons hitting the country annually.
typhoon: Most tropical cyclones form on the side of the subtropical ridge closer to the equator, then move poleward past the ridge axis before recurving north and northeast into the main belt of the westerlies.
typhoon: Northward track.
typhoon: Since 2009 the Hong Kong Observatory has divided typhoons into three different classifications: typhoon, severe typhoon and super typhoon.
typhoon: Across the Philippines themselves, activity reaches a minimum in February, before increasing steadily through June and spiking from July through October, with September being the most active month for tropical cyclones across the archipelago.
typhoon: The peak months correspond to that of the Atlantic hurricane seasons.
