ukraine: The Varangian elite, including the ruling Rurik dynasty, later assimilated into the Slavic population.
ukraine: Rapid growth followed in the Soviet period.
ukraine: Following the Christianisation of Kievan Rus', Ukrainian architecture has been influenced by Byzantine architecture.
ukraine: Other writings from the time include chronicles, the most significant of which was the Primary Chronicle.
ukraine: The snow melt from the mountains feeds the rivers and their waterfalls.
ukraine: Collectivisation was part of the first five-year plan and was enforced by regular troops and the secret police known as Cheka.
ukraine: This award was only presented to one Ukrainian after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Andriy Shevchenko.
ukraine: Famine in 1921 further hit the eastern provinces.
ukraine: However, it was he and his appointee in Ukraine, Volodymyr Shcherbytsky, who presided over the extensive Russification of Ukraine and who were instrumental in repressing a new generation of Ukrainian intellectuals known as the Sixtiers.
ukraine: It is a heavily urbanised country, and its industrial regions in the east and southeast are the most densely populated—about 67% of its total population lives in urban areas.
ukraine: The Ukrainian diaspora is found throughout numerous regions worldwide including other post-Soviet states as well as in Canada, and other countries such as Poland, the United States, the UK and Brazil.
ukraine: A new constitution was adopted in 1996 as the country transitioned to a free market liberal democracy amid endemic corruption and a legacy of state control.
ukraine: Complete general secondary education is compulsory in the state schools which constitute the overwhelming majority.
ukraine: Most universities provide subsidised housing for out-of-city students.
ukraine: At the end of the century, the majority of Bulgar tribes migrated in different directions, and the Khazars took over much of the land.
ukraine: Following on the Russian Civil War and collectivisation, the Great Purge, while killing Stalin's perceived political enemies, resulted in a profound loss of a new generation of Ukrainian intelligentsia, known today as the Executed Renaissance.
ukraine: It began with the reign of Vladimir the Great (980–1015), who introduced Christianity.
ukraine: The country had a limited military partnership with Russian Federation and other CIS countries and has had a partnership with NATO since 1994.
ukraine: Several of these countries fall into the Least Developed Country (LDC) group, while many others belong to the group of Low-Income Food-Deficit Countries (LIFDCs).
ukraine: From the mid-13th century to the late 1400s, the Republic of Genoa founded numerous colonies on the northern coast of the Black Sea and transformed these into large commercial centres headed by the consul, a representative of the Republic.
ukraine: These policies attracted many prominent former UNR figures, including former UNR leader Hrushevsky, to return to Soviet Ukraine, where they were accepted, and participated in the advancement of Ukrainian science and culture.
ukraine: Ukrainian customs are heavily influenced by Orthodox Christianity, the dominant religion in the country.
ukraine: Ukrainian is the dominant language in Western Ukraine and in Central Ukraine, while Russian is the dominant language in the cities of Eastern Ukraine and Southern Ukraine.
ukraine: The vast majority of the fighting in World War II took place on the Eastern Front.
ukraine: Shortly after Yanukovych fled Ukraine, the country signed the EU association agreement in June 2014, and its citizens were granted visa-free travel to the European Union three years later.
ukraine: Ukraine is among the world's top agricultural producers and exporters and is often described as the "bread basket of Europe".
ukraine: The short-lived West Ukrainian People's Republic and Hutsul Republic also failed to join the rest of Ukraine.
ukraine: Still, a separate Ukrainian Baroque style was developed by the Ukrainian Cossacks in 17th–18th centuries, and Ukrainian Art Nouveau had limited success in the 20th century.
ukraine: Between February 2022 and March 2023, UNESCO verified the damage to 247 sites, including 107 religious sites, 89 buildings of artistic or historical interest, 19 monuments and 12 libraries.
ukraine: The Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine, is the main academic library and main scientific information centre in Ukraine.
ukraine: However, during its transition to the market economy, the country experienced deeper economic slowdown than almost all of the other former Soviet Republics.
ukraine: Embroidery motifs found in different parts of Ukraine are preserved in the Rushnyk Museum in Pereiaslav.
ukraine: In the early 1930s, millions of Ukrainians died in the Holodomor, a human-made famine.
ukraine: It was first deposed in a coup d'état led by Pavlo Skoropadskyi, which yielded the Ukrainian State under the German protectorate, and the attempt to restore the UPR under the Directorate ultimately failed as the Ukrainian army was regularly overrun by other forces.
ukraine: These policies faced a steep decline in the 1930s, when prominent representatives as well as many others were killed by the NKVD during the Great Purge.
ukraine: About half of electricity generation is nuclear and a quarter coal.
ukraine: The president is elected by popular vote for a five-year term and is the formal head of state.
ukraine: Following independence, Ukraine declared itself a neutral state.
ukraine: Until the 2010s all of Ukraine's nuclear fuel came from Russia, but now most does not.
ukraine: The official Ukrainian position is that "the Ukraine" is both grammatically and politically incorrect.
ukraine: The parliament is primarily responsible for the formation of the executive branch and the Cabinet of Ministers, headed by the prime minister.
ukraine: The contract to transit Russian gas expires at the end of 2024.
ukraine: Salo, which is cured pork fat, is considered the national delicacy.
ukraine: In 2003–2005, a Ukrainian unit was deployed as part of the multinational force in Iraq under Polish command.
ukraine: However, this geographical division is decreasing.
ukraine: Following an Avar raid in 602 and the collapse of the Antes Union, most of these peoples survived as separate tribes until the beginning of the second millennium.
ukraine: Anti-Normanist historians however argue that the East Slavic tribes along the southern parts of the Dnieper River were already in the process of forming a state independently.
ukraine: Generally, the Ukrainian Insurgent Army's figures are unreliable, with figures ranging anywhere from 15,000 to as many as 100,000 fighters.
ukraine: In total, the number of ethnic Ukrainians who fought in the ranks of the Soviet Army is estimated from 4.5 million to 7 million; half of the Pro-Soviet partisan guerrilla resistance units, which counted up to 500,000 troops in 1944, were also Ukrainian.
ukraine: It is the second-largest country in Europe after Russia, which borders it to the east and northeast.
ukraine: Ukraine receives further support and assistance for its EU-accession aspirations from the International Visegrád Fund of the Visegrád Group that consists of Central European EU members the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and Slovakia.
ukraine: In 1654, Khmelnytsky was subject to the Pereiaslav Agreement, forming a military and political alliance with Russia that acknowledged loyalty to the Russian monarch.
ukraine: By 1988 the number of higher education institutions increased to 146 with over 850,000 students.
ukraine: During the 1920s, under the Ukrainisation policy pursued by the national Communist leadership of Mykola Skrypnyk, Soviet leadership at first encouraged a national renaissance in Ukrainian culture and language.
ukraine: According to the KIIS study, roughly 58.3% of the Ukrainian Orthodox population were members of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, and 25.4% were members of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate).
ukraine: The republic was heavily damaged by the war, and it required significant efforts to recover.
ukraine: Ukraine has 457 cities, of which 176 are designated as oblast-class, 279 as smaller raion-class cities, and two as special legal status cities.
ukraine: Following the invasion of Poland in September 1939, German and Soviet troops divided the territory of Poland.
ukraine: It was approved by 92% of the Ukrainian electorate in a referendum on 1 December.
ukraine: Ukraine's 2017 education law bars primary education in public schools in grade five and up in any language but Ukrainian.
ukraine: Near the Sea of Azov are the Donets Ridge and the Near Azov Upland.
ukraine: Ukraine is a republic under a semi-presidential system with separate legislative, executive, and judicial branches.
ukraine: An additional 1.6 million emigrated to the east in the ten years after the opening of the Trans-Siberian Railway in 1906.
ukraine: Ukraine is in the mid-latitudes, and generally has a continental climate, except for its southern coasts, which have cold semi-arid and humid subtropical climates.
ukraine: The serf-turned-national-poet Taras Shevchenko (1814–1861) and political theorist Mykhailo Drahomanov (1841–1895) led the growing nationalist movement.
ukraine: Russian could then be used in the administrative office work and documents of those places.
ukraine: Other Christians comprised 2.3%.
ukraine: The public sector employs most healthcare professionals, with those working for private medical centres typically also retaining their state employment as they are mandated to provide care at public health facilities on a regular basis.
ukraine: For a large part of the Soviet era, the number of Ukrainian speakers declined from generation to generation, and by the mid-1980s, the usage of the Ukrainian language in public life had decreased significantly.
ukraine: Despite the signing of the Budapest memorandum in 1994, in which Ukraine agreed to hand over nuclear weapons in exchange for guarantees of security and territorial integrity, Russia reacted violently to these developments and started a war against its western neighbour.
ukraine: Most native Ukrainian speakers know Russian as a second language.
ukraine: After the war, the UPA continued to fight the USSR until the 1950s.
ukraine: Ukrainian troops were deployed in Kosovo as part of the Ukrainian-Polish Battalion.
ukraine: However, due to its death rate exceeding its birth rate, mass emigration, poor living conditions, and low-quality health care, the total population decreased by 6.6 million, or 12.8% from the same year to 2014.
ukraine: By 4,500 BC, the Neolithic Cucuteni–Trypillia culture was flourishing in wide areas of modern Ukraine, including Trypillia and the entire Dnieper-Dniester region.
ukraine: The coal industry has been disrupted by conflict.
ukraine: Small minority populations included: Belarusians (0.6%), Moldovans (0.5%), Crimean Tatars (0.5%), Bulgarians (0.4%), Hungarians (0.3%), Romanians (0.3%), Poles (0.3%), Jews (0.3%), Armenians (0.2%), Greeks (0.2%) and Tatars (0.2%).
ukraine: He was subsequently crowned by a papal envoy as the first king of Galicia–Volhynia (also known as the Kingdom of Ruthenia) in 1253.
ukraine: Mikhail Gorbachev pursued a policy of limited liberalisation of public life, known as perestroika, and attempted to reform a stagnating economy.
ukraine: All major political parties in Ukraine support full eventual integration into the European Union.
ukraine: The national team made its debut in the 2006 FIFA World Cup, and reached the quarterfinals before losing to eventual champions, Italy.
ukraine: The Supreme Court is regarded as an independent and impartial body, and has on several occasions ruled against the Ukrainian government.
ukraine: During World War II, Ukraine was occupied by Germany and endured major battles and atrocities, resulting in 7 million civilians killed, including most Ukrainian Jews.
ukraine: Ukraine also has multiple urban rail systems, particularly three metro (Dnipro, Kharkiv, and Kyiv), two light rail (Kryvyi Rih and Kyiv), two urban elektrychka (Kamianske–Dnipro–Synelnykove and Kyiv), two cable railway (Kyiv and Odesa), and numerous tramway systems.
ukraine: university professors) began in Soviet Ukraine and continued throughout the 1920s.
ukraine: In 2011, Ukraine was granted a right to organise EuroBasket 2015.
ukraine: Humans have inhabited Ukraine since 32,000 BC.
ukraine: All other laws and other normative legal acts of Ukraine must conform to the constitution.
ukraine: Local councils and city mayors are popularly elected and exercise control over local budgets.
ukraine: While conditions for its development in Austrian Galicia under the Habsburgs were relatively lenient, the Russian part (historically known as "Little Russia" or "South Russia") faced severe restrictions, going as far as banning virtually all books from being published in Ukrainian in 1876.
ukraine: One 2022 estimate was that post-war reconstruction costs might reach half a trillion dollars.
ukraine: The most striking general characteristic of authentic ethnic Ukrainian folk music is the wide use of minor modes or keys which incorporate augmented second intervals.
ukraine: Historically, Specialist degree (usually 5 years) is still also granted; it was the only degree awarded by universities in Soviet times.
ukraine: after Ukrainian troops withdrew from Debaltseve.
ukraine: The Supreme Court is the main body in the system of courts of general jurisdiction.
ukraine: Ukrainian pop and folk music arose with the international popularity of groups and performers like Vopli Vidoplyasova, Dakh Daughters, Dakha Brakha, Ivan Dorn and Okean Elzy.
ukraine: Far Eastern areas with an ethnic Ukrainian population became known as Green Ukraine.
ukraine: Ukraine was initially viewed as having favourable economic conditions in comparison to the other regions of the Soviet Union, though it was one of the poorer Soviet republics by the time of the dissolution.
ukraine: The World Health Organization has documented over 2,254 attacks on healthcare in Ukraine since the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.
ukraine: From the political perspective, one of the defining features of the politics of Ukraine is that for most of the time, it has been divided along two issues: the relation between Ukraine, the West and Russia, and the classical left-right divide.
ukraine: According to the Council of Europe, this act fails to achieve fair protection of the linguistic rights of minorities.
ukraine: Ukraine covers an area of 603,628 km2 (233,062 sq mi) with an estimated total population of 32.3 million in 2026.
ukraine: A factor contributing to the high death rate is a high mortality rate among working-age males from preventable causes such as alcohol poisoning and smoking.
ukraine: These thrived into the 6th century AD.
ukraine: Although there are still problems, the system is considered to have been much improved since Ukraine's independence in 1991.
ukraine: In 1932, Stalin made socialist realism state policy in the Soviet Union when he promulgated the decree "On the Reconstruction of Literary and Art Organisations".
ukraine: On 10 March 2024, creators of a documentary film 20 Days in Mariupol were awarded with the Oscar in the category "Best Documentary Feature Film", the first Oscar in Ukraine's history.
ukraine: Many top positions in the Soviet Union were occupied by Ukrainians, including notably Leonid Brezhnev, General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1964 to 1982.
ukraine: Ukraine considers Euro-Atlantic integration its primary foreign policy objective, but in practice it has always balanced its relationship with the European Union and the United States with strong ties to Russia.
ukraine: Since the mid-1960s, Western-influenced pop music has been growing in popularity in Ukraine.
ukraine: This period was cut short when Joseph Stalin became the leader of the USSR following Lenin's death.
ukraine: A broad anti-corruption drive began in early 2023 with the resignations of several deputy ministers and regional heads during a reshuffle of the government.
ukraine: Law enforcement agencies, particularly the police, faced criticism for their heavy handling of the 2004 Orange Revolution.
ukraine: In the 7th century, the territory that is now eastern Ukraine was the centre of Old Great Bulgaria.
ukraine: Emergency Medicine Reform is also an important part of the healthcare reform.
ukraine: Ukraine's regions have diverse geographic features, ranging from the highlands to the lowlands.
ukraine: As a consequence of Stalin's new policy, the Ukrainian peasantry suffered from the programme of collectivisation of agricultural crops.
ukraine: Russian is widely spoken in the country, especially in eastern and southern Ukraine.
ukraine: Kievan Rus' was composed of several principalities ruled by the interrelated Rurikid kniazes ("princes"), who often fought each other for possession of Kyiv.
ukraine: However, the continued harsh enserfment of Ruthenian peasantry by Polish szlachta (many of whom were Polonised Ruthenian nobles) and the suppression of the Orthodox Church alienated the Cossacks.
ukraine: The state included much of present-day Ukraine, Belarus and the western part of European Russia.
ukraine: Citizens unable to speak Ukrainian or Russian may use their native language or the services of a translator.
ukraine: Ukraine has a transition economy and has the lowest nominal GDP per capita in Europe as of 2024.
ukraine: Ukrainian cuisine has been formed by the nation's tumultuous history, geography, culture and social customs.
ukraine: This is because in Russian, the word ukraina means 'borderland' so the definite article would be natural in the English language; this is similar to Nederlanden, which means 'low lands' and is rendered in English as "the Netherlands".
ukraine: As the Russian Empire collapsed, the conflict evolved into the Ukrainian War of Independence, with Ukrainians fighting alongside, or against, the Red, White, Black and Green armies, with the Poles, Hungarians (in Transcarpathia), and Germans also intervening at various times.
ukraine: The western part of present-day Ukraine was subsequently split between Russia and Habsburg-ruled Austria after the fall of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1795.
ukraine: Among traditional baked goods are decorated korovai and paska (easter bread).
ukraine: Nonetheless, by the late 18th century, the modern literary Ukrainian language finally emerged.
ukraine: In August 2023, the U.S.
ukraine: Basketball has gained popularity in Ukraine.
ukraine: Tourism was the mainstay of Crimea's economy before a major fall in visitor numbers following the Russian annexation in 2014.
ukraine: Ukraine plunged into turmoil with the beginning of World War I, and fighting on Ukrainian soil persisted until late 1921.
ukraine: The Orange Revolution of 2004–2005 ushered electoral and constitutional reforms.
ukraine: At that time Ukraine had a population density of 69.5 inhabitants per square kilometre (180 inhabitants/mi2), and the overall life expectancy in the country at birth was 73 years (68 years for males and 77.8 years for females).
ukraine: Previously all court proceedings had to be held in Ukrainian.
ukraine: The tradition of the Easter eggs, known as pysanky, has long roots in Ukraine.
ukraine: On 26 April 1986, however, a reactor in the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant exploded, resulting in the Chernobyl disaster, the worst nuclear reactor accident in history.
ukraine: Ukraine, like the rest of the Russian Empire, joined the Industrial Revolution later than most of Western Europe due to the maintenance of serfdom until 1861.
ukraine: The Treaty of Perpetual Peace between Russia and Poland in 1686 divided the lands of the Cossack Hetmanate between them, reducing the portion over which Poland had claimed sovereignty to Ukraine west of the Dnieper river.
ukraine: Under the pressures of Polonisation, many landed gentry of Ruthenia converted to Catholicism and joined the circles of the Polish nobility; others joined the newly created Ruthenian Uniate Church.
ukraine: Students in the 12th grade take Government tests, which are also referred to as school-leaving exams.
ukraine: These eggs were drawn on with wax to create a pattern; then, the dye was applied to give the eggs their pleasant colours, the dye did not affect the previously wax-coated parts of the egg.
ukraine: It signed the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, which called for reduction of tanks, artillery, and armoured vehicles (army forces were reduced to 300,000).
ukraine: Early Indo-European migrations from the Pontic steppes in the 3rd millennium BC spread Yamnaya Steppe pastoralist ancestry and Indo-European languages across large parts of Europe.
ukraine: In the western territories, the principalities of Halych and Volhynia had arisen earlier, and were merged to form the Principality of Galicia–Volhynia.
ukraine: Initially, the Ukrainians were split between Austria-Hungary, fighting for the Central Powers, though the vast majority served in the Imperial Russian Army, which was part of the Triple Entente, under Russia.
ukraine: During the Middle Ages, it was the site of early Slavic expansion and later became a key centre of East Slavic culture under the state of Kievan Rus', which emerged in the 9th century.
ukraine: Before the Russo-Ukrainian war the number of tourists visiting Ukraine was eighth in Europe, according to UN Tourism rankings.
ukraine: During the 2020/21 international wheat marketing season (July–June), it ranked as the sixth largest wheat exporter, accounting for nine percent of world wheat trade.
ukraine: Most male Ukrainian nationals aged 18 to 60 were denied exit from Ukraine.
ukraine: Ukraine–NATO relations are close and the country has declared interest in eventual membership.
ukraine: The first months of the conflict with the Russian-backed separatists were fluid, but Russian forces then started an open invasion in Donbas on 24 August 2014.
ukraine: In January 2019, the Orthodox Church of Ukraine was recognised as independent of Moscow, which reversed the 1686 decision of the patriarch of Constantinople and dealt a further blow to Moscow's influence in Ukraine.
ukraine: The landscape of Ukraine consists mostly of fertile steppes (plains with few trees) and plateaus, crossed by rivers such as the Dnieper, Seversky Donets, Dniester and the Southern Bug as they flow south into the Black Sea and the smaller Sea of Azov.
ukraine: Since 2005, an eleven-year school programme has been replaced with a twelve-year one: primary education takes four years to complete (starting at age six), middle education (secondary) takes five years to complete; upper secondary then takes three years.
ukraine: For the next 600 years the area was contested, divided, and ruled by a variety of external powers, including the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, the Kingdom of Poland, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, the Austrian Empire, the Ottoman Empire, and the Tsardom of Russia.
ukraine: The European Union's Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA) with Ukraine went into force in 1998.
ukraine: In the 11th and 12th centuries, the nomadic confederacy of the Turkic-speaking Cumans and Kipchaks was the dominant force in the Pontic steppe north of the Black Sea.
ukraine: In 2019, the law allowing for official use of regional languages was found unconstitutional.
ukraine: The NEP was successful at restoring the formerly war-torn nation to pre-WWI levels of production and agricultural output by the mid-1920s, much of the latter based in Ukraine.
ukraine: Ukrainian literature continued to flourish in the early Soviet years when nearly all literary trends were approved.
ukraine: Evidence for the earliest securely dated hominin presence in Europe comes from 1.4 million-year-old stone tools from Korolevo, in western Ukraine.
ukraine: Local self-government is officially guaranteed.
ukraine: Deprived of native protectors among the Ruthenian nobility, the peasants and townspeople began turning for protection to the emerging Zaporozhian Cossacks.
ukraine: These documents sealed the fate of the Soviet Union, which formally voted itself out of existence on 26 December.
ukraine: In the north, some crops may be able to benefit from a longer growing season.
ukraine: Key officials may use Starlink as backup.
ukraine: In 2010, President Yanukovych formed an expert group to make recommendations on how to "clean up the current mess and adopt a law on court organisation".
ukraine: During the reign of his son, Yaroslav the Wise (1019–1054), Kievan Rus' reached the zenith of its cultural development and military power.
ukraine: In the English-speaking world during most of the 20th century, Ukraine (whether independent or not) was referred to as "the Ukraine".
ukraine: The most popular sport is football.
ukraine: According to the 2001 census, ethnic Ukrainians made up roughly 78% of the population, while Russians were the largest minority, at some 17.3% of the population.
ukraine: In the years 1764–1781, Catherine the Great incorporated much of Central Ukraine into the Russian Empire, abolishing the Cossack Hetmanate and the Zaporozhian Sich, and was one of the people responsible for the suppression of the last major Cossack uprising, the Koliivshchyna.
ukraine: Among the oldest is also the Lviv University, founded in 1661.
ukraine: Kyiv dominates the media sector in Ukraine: National newspapers Den, Dzerkalo Tyzhnia, tabloids, such as The Ukrainian Week or Focus, and television and radio are largely based there, although Lviv is also a significant national media centre.
ukraine: In the mid-17th century, a Cossack military quasi-state, the Zaporozhian Host, was formed by Dnieper Cossacks and Ruthenian peasants.
ukraine: Of the estimated 8.6 million Soviet troop losses, 1.4 million were ethnic Ukrainians.
ukraine: The legacy of the economic policies of the nineties was the mass privatisation of state property that created a class of extremely powerful and rich individuals known as the oligarchs.
ukraine: In eastern and southern Ukraine, Russian is the primary language in some cities, while Ukrainian is used in rural areas.
ukraine: Ukraine is a founding member of the United Nations and a member of the Council of Europe, the World Trade Organisation, and the OSCE.
ukraine: Alcohol consumption has seen a stark decrease, though by per capita, it remains among the highest in the world.
ukraine: One day later, he stated "We can no longer disgrace our country with such a court system." The criminal judicial system and the prison system of Ukraine remain quite punitive.
ukraine: The Austrian part of Ukraine was particularly destitute, which forced hundreds of thousands of peasants into emigration, who created the backbone of an extensive Ukrainian diaspora in countries such as Canada, the United States and Brazil.
ukraine: The war with Russia impeded meaningful economic recovery in the 2010s, while efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, which arrived in 2020, were made much harder by low vaccination rates and, later in the pandemic, by the ongoing invasion.
ukraine: Although this brought conflict with Nazi Germany, at times the Melnyk wing of the OUN allied with the Nazi forces.
ukraine: In recent years, Ukraine has dramatically strengthened its ties with the United States.
ukraine: The establishment of the state of Kievan Rus' remains obscure and uncertain.
ukraine: The environmental damage caused by the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine has been described as an ecocide, the destruction of Kakhovka Dam, severe pollution and millions of tonnes of contaminated debris is estimated to cost over USD 50 billion to repair.
ukraine: Ukraine is often called the "Breadbasket of Europe", and its plentiful grain and cereal resources such as rye and wheat play an important part in its cuisine; essential in making various kinds of bread.
ukraine: Precipitation is highest in the west and north and lowest in the east and southeast.
ukraine: Ukraine also has a number of highland regions such as the Volyn-Podillia Upland (in the west) and the Near-Dnipro Upland (on the right bank of the Dnieper).
ukraine: On the Russian language, on Soviet Union and Ukrainian nationalism, opinion in Eastern Ukraine and Southern Ukraine tends to be the exact opposite of those in Western Ukraine; while opinions in Central Ukraine on these topics tend be less extreme.
ukraine: Ukrainian children forcibly deported to Russia are also subjected to Russification.
ukraine: It remained a frozen conflict until the early hours of 24 February 2022, when Russia launched the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.
ukraine: In 2019, 82% of Ukrainians were Christians; out of which 72.7% declared themselves to be Eastern Orthodox, 8.8% Ukrainian Greek Catholics, 2.3% Protestants and 0.9% Latin Church Catholics.
ukraine: Ukraine greatly benefited from the Soviet emphasis on physical education.
ukraine: Ukraine's current military consist of 196,600 active personnel and around 900,000 reservists.
ukraine: Prosecutors in Ukraine have greater powers than in most European countries, and according to the European Commission for Democracy through Law "the role and functions of the Prosecutor's Office is not in accordance with Council of Europe standards".
ukraine: The heads of regional and district administrations are appointed by the president in accordance with proposals of the prime minister.
ukraine: It is followed by pork and beef.
ukraine: The Hetmanate's autonomy was severely restricted since Poltava.
ukraine: The constitution and laws provide for freedom of speech and press.
ukraine: This severely curtailed literary activity in the area, and Ukrainian writers were forced to either publish their works in Russian or release them in Austrian controlled Galicia.
ukraine: As part of its modernisation after the beginning of the Russo-Ukrainian War in 2014, junior officers were allowed to take more initiative and a territorial defence force of volunteers was established.
ukraine: Higher education is either state funded or private.
ukraine: After the annexation of Crimea by Russia in 1783, the newly acquired lands, now called Novorossiya, were opened up to settlement by Russians.
ukraine: Ukraine's legislative branch includes the 450-seat unicameral parliament, the Verkhovna Rada.
ukraine: These advances were then set back in the 17th and early 18th centuries, as many Ukrainian authors wrote in Russian or Polish.
ukraine: Romanian is spoken in Chernivtsi Oblast and parts of Odesa and Zakarpattia oblasts, while Hungarian is spoken in Zakarpattia Oblast.
ukraine: In late February and early March 2014, it annexed Crimea using its Navy in Sevastopol as well as the so- called little green men; after this succeeded, it then launched a proxy war in the Donbas via the breakaway Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic.
ukraine: In 2014, the Ukrainian frigate Hetman Sagaidachniy joined the European Union's counter-piracy Operation Atalanta and was part of the EU Naval Force off the coast of Somalia for two months.
ukraine: The largest ferry company operating these routes was Ukrferry.
ukraine: A city's significance depends on several factors such as its population, socio-economic and historical importance and infrastructure.
ukraine: Ukraine was ranked 66th in 2025 in the Global Innovation Index.
ukraine: The largest nuclear power plant in Europe, the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, is in Ukraine.
ukraine: More than 600,000 Soviet soldiers (or one-quarter of the Soviet Western Front) were killed or taken captive there, with many suffering severe mistreatment.
ukraine: Internationally important wetlands cover over 7,000 square kilometres (2,700 sq mi), with the Danube Delta being important for conservation.
ukraine: Popular traditional dishes varenyky (dumplings), nalysnyky (crêpes), kapusnyak (cabbage soup), borscht (sour soup) and holubtsi (cabbage rolls).
ukraine: In 882, the pagan Prince Oleg (Oleh) conquered Kyiv from Askold and Dir and proclaimed it as the new capital of the Rus'.
ukraine: Martial law was declared when Russia invaded in February 2022, and continues.
ukraine: The official language of the country is Ukrainian.
ukraine: Daniel of Galicia, son of Roman the Great, re-united much of south-western Rus', including Volhynia, Galicia, as well as Kyiv.
ukraine: Furthermore, Stalin sought to suppress Ukraine's aspirations for independence by taking severe measures to eliminate the Ukrainian peasantry and eradicate the nation's intellectual and cultural elite.
ukraine: The patient will have the right to choose one.
ukraine: According to Ukraine's constitution, the state language is Ukrainian.
ukraine: Ukraine played an increasing role in peacekeeping operations.
ukraine: In 2020/21, it accounted for 12 percent of global trade in maize and barley and for 14 percent of world rapeseed exports.
ukraine: The situation only stabilised well after the new currency, the hryvnia, fell sharply in late 1998 partially as a fallout from the Russian debt default earlier that year.
ukraine: Stalin did away with the NEP in what became known as the Great Break.
ukraine: There are 45,000 species of animals (mostly invertebrates), with approximately 385 endangered species listed in the Red Data Book of Ukraine.
ukraine: Since 1996, the public holiday Constitution Day is celebrated on 28 June.
ukraine: Ukraine is the most active member of the Partnership for Peace (PfP).
ukraine: The latter failed, but the democratisation of the Soviet Union fuelled nationalist and separatist tendencies among the ethnic minorities, including Ukrainians.
ukraine: The Constitution of Ukraine was adopted and ratified at the 5th session of the Verkhovna Rada, the parliament of Ukraine, on 28 June 1996.
ukraine: The constitution was passed with 315 ayes out of 450 votes possible (300 ayes minimum).
ukraine: Starting from the late 1920s and now with a centrally planned economy, Soviet Ukraine took part in an industrialisation scheme which quadrupled its industrial output during the 1930s.
ukraine: Unemployment in Ukraine was 4.5% in 2019.
ukraine: In June 2025, Ukraine legalised multiple citizenship.
ukraine: Although the majority of Ukrainians fought in or alongside the Red Army and Soviet resistance, in Western Ukraine an independent Ukrainian Insurgent Army movement arose (UPA, 1942).
ukraine: Outside the former Soviet Union, the largest source of incoming immigrants in Ukraine's post-independence period was from four Asian countries, namely China, India, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
ukraine: The Soviet government invested in hydroelectric and nuclear power projects to cater to the energy demand that the development carried.
ukraine: Ukrainian architecture includes the motifs and styles that are found in structures built in modern Ukraine, and by Ukrainians worldwide.
ukraine: Presently, most foreign films and TV programmes, including Russian ones, are subtitled or dubbed in Ukrainian.
ukraine: The negative impacts of climate change on agriculture are mostly felt in the south of the country, which has a steppe climate.
ukraine: In 2020 Ukraine's government debt was roughly 50% of its nominal GDP.
ukraine: Ukraine also has made contributions to UN peacekeeping operations since 1992.
ukraine: During the 1980s glasnost (openness) was introduced and Soviet artists and writers again became free to express themselves as they wanted.
ukraine: During the 2008 Bucharest summit, NATO declared that Ukraine would eventually become a member of NATO when it meets the criteria for accession.
ukraine: Significant natural resources in Ukraine include lithium, natural gas, kaolin, timber and an abundance of arable land.
ukraine: Ukraine is a probable location for the first domestication of the horse.
ukraine: The Ukrainian diaspora comprises Ukrainians and their descendants who live outside Ukraine around the world, especially those who maintain some kind of connection to the land of their ancestors and maintain their feeling of Ukrainian national identity within their own local community.
ukraine: Most crossed into Poland, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic, and others proceeded to at least temporarily settle in Hungary, Moldova, Germany, Austria, Romania and other European countries.
ukraine: During the 10th and 11th centuries, Kievan Rus' became the largest and most powerful state in Europe, a period known as its Golden Age.
ukraine: The first two presidents, Kravchuk and Leonid Kuchma, tended to balance the competing visions of Ukraine, though Yushchenko and Yanukovych were generally pro-Western and pro-Russian, respectively.
ukraine: All of Ukraine's medical service providers and hospitals are subordinate to the Ministry of Healthcare, which provides oversight and scrutiny of general medical practice as well as being responsible for the day-to-day administration of the healthcare system.
ukraine: As part of the so-called parade of sovereignties, on 16 July 1990, the newly elected Supreme Soviet of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic adopted the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine.
ukraine: Ukraine International Airlines, is the flag carrier and the largest airline, with its head office in Kyiv and its main hub at Kyiv's Boryspil International Airport.
ukraine: In general around 223 writers were repressed by what was known as the Executed Renaissance.
ukraine: The Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union was signed in 2014.
ukraine: Much of the nobility was well versed in music with many Ukrainian Cossack leaders such as (Mazepa, Paliy, Holovatyj, Sirko) being accomplished players of the kobza, bandura or torban.
ukraine: In 1798, the modern era of the Ukrainian literary tradition began with Ivan Kotliarevsky's publication of Eneida in the Ukrainian vernacular.
ukraine: Soviet Ukraine soon became a European leader in industrial production and an important centre of the Soviet arms industry and high-tech research, though heavy industry still had an outsided influence.
ukraine: Ukraine's healthcare system is state subsidised and freely available to all Ukrainian citizens and registered residents.
ukraine: In the Ukrainian SSR schools, learning Russian was mandatory; in modern Ukraine, schools with Ukrainian as the language of instruction offer classes in Russian and in the other minority languages.
ukraine: They blockaded the transport of food on the Dnieper River.
ukraine: Ukrainian classical music differs considerably depending on whether the composer was of Ukrainian ethnicity living in Ukraine, a composer of non-Ukrainian ethnicity who was a citizen of Ukraine, or part of the Ukrainian diaspora.
ukraine: In 2014, following the Revolution of Dignity, the Ukrainian Parliament voted to repeal the law on regional languages, making Ukrainian the sole state language at all levels; however, the repeal was not signed by acting President Turchynov or by President Poroshenko.
ukraine: Kyiv, Lviv, Odesa and Kamianets-Podilskyi were Ukraine's principal tourist centres, each offering many historical landmarks and extensive hospitality infrastructure.
ukraine: Another interpretation is that the name of Ukraine means "region" or "country".
ukraine: The IT industry contributed almost 5 per cent to Ukraine's GDP in 2021 and in 2022 continued both inside and outside the country.
ukraine: Lying between latitudes 44° and 53° N, and longitudes 22° and 41° E., it is mostly in the East European Plain.
ukraine: Ukraine is a country in Eastern Europe.
ukraine: Law enforcement agencies are controlled by the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ukraine: The most densely forested area is Polisia in the northwest, with pine, oak, and birch.
ukraine: The Russo-Ukrainian war has led to the Ukrainian refugee crisis in which millions of Ukrainian civilians moved to neighbouring countries.
ukraine: Popular drinks include uzvar (kompot made of dried fruits), ryazhanka, and horilka.
ukraine: The Kurgan hypothesis places the Volga-Dnieper region of Ukraine and southern Russia as the linguistic homeland of the Proto-Indo-Europeans.
ukraine: Fossil fuel subsidies were US$2.2 billion in 2019.
ukraine: Poland exercised little real control over this population, but found the Cossacks to be useful against the Turks and Tatars, and at times the two were allies in military campaigns.
ukraine: Settlement by modern humans in Ukraine and its vicinity dates back to 32,000 BC, with evidence of the Gravettian culture in the Crimean Mountains.
ukraine: In consequence, the underground Ukrainian nationalist and militant movement, which arose in the 1920s gained wider support.
ukraine: Ukraine has consistently supported peaceful, negotiated settlements to disputes.
ukraine: According to the October 2024 data of the World Health Organization Ukraine health needs assessment, 68% of Ukrainians reported that their health declined compared to the pre-war period.
ukraine: These repressions were part of Stalin's implemented policy of socialist realism.
ukraine: Migrations from the territories of present-day Ukraine throughout the Balkans established many South Slavic nations.
ukraine: As of 2023, UNESCO inscribed 8 properties in Ukraine on the World Heritage List.
ukraine: The country is also a major global exporter of maize, barley and rapeseed.
ukraine: Vegetables such as potatoes, cabbages, mushrooms and beetroots are widely consumed.
ukraine: The fighting left over 1.5 million people dead and hundreds of thousands homeless in the former Russian Empire's territory.
ukraine: In 1648, Bohdan Khmelnytsky led the largest of the Cossack uprisings against the Commonwealth and the Polish king, which enjoyed wide support from the local population.
ukraine: Its military is the sixth largest in the world with the eighth largest defence budget, and operates one of the world's largest and most diverse drone fleets.
ukraine: They consist primarily of the national police force and various specialised units and agencies such as the State Border Guard and the Coast Guard services.
ukraine: The ban was never officially lifted, but it became obsolete after the revolution and the Bolsheviks' coming to power.
ukraine: Energy in Ukraine is mainly from gas and coal, followed by nuclear then oil.
ukraine: Most gas and oil is imported, but since 2015 energy policy has prioritised diversifying energy supply.
ukraine: It has participated in the quadripartite talks on the conflict in Moldova and promoted a peaceful resolution to the conflict in the post-Soviet state of Georgia.
ukraine: In the 5th and 6th centuries, the Antes, which some relate as an early Slavic people, lived in Ukraine.
ukraine: Folk singer and harmonium player Mariana Sadovska is prominent.
ukraine: Liquor (spirits) are the most consumed type of alcoholic beverage.
ukraine: Active reformation of Ukraine's healthcare system was initiated right after the appointment of Ulana Suprun as a head of the Ministry of Healthcare.
ukraine: Thus, Eastern Galicia and Volhynia with their Ukrainian population became part of Ukraine.
ukraine: Ukrainian embroidery, weaving and lace-making are used in traditional folk dress and in traditional celebrations.
ukraine: However, since Ukraine's declaration of independence in 1991, this usage has become politicised and is now rarer, and style guides advise against its use.
ukraine: Euroleague participant Budivelnyk Kyiv is the strongest professional basketball club in Ukraine.
ukraine: The European Union is the country's main trade partner, and remittances from Ukrainians working abroad are important.
ukraine: The village is the birthplace of two internationally recognised personalities in the scene of national crafts fabrication: Nina Myhailivna and Uliana Petrivna.
ukraine: There are about 85 Grandmasters and 198 International Masters in Ukraine.
ukraine: The Axis initially advanced against desperate but unsuccessful efforts of the Red Army.
ukraine: Ukraine is one of the world's largest wheat exporters.
ukraine: However, much of the contemporary architectural skyline of Ukraine is dominated by Soviet-style Khrushchyovkas, or low-cost apartment buildings.
ukraine: Ukraine also borders Belarus to the north; Poland and Slovakia to the west; Hungary, Romania and Moldova to the southwest; and the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov to the south and southeast.
ukraine: Moreover, Ukraine once more expanded its borders as it annexed Zakarpattia, and the population became much more homogenised due to post-war population transfers, most of which, as in the case of Germans and Crimean Tatars, were forced.
ukraine: In 2021, the Association Trio was formed by signing a joint memorandum between the Foreign Ministers of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine.
ukraine: Assisted by deputy Pavlo Kovtoniuk, Suprun first changed the distribution of finances in healthcare.
ukraine: By 1950, the republic had fully surpassed pre-war levels of industry and production.
ukraine: The level of religiosity in Ukraine was reported to be the highest in Western Ukraine (91%), and the lowest in the Donbas (57%) and Eastern Ukraine (56%).
ukraine: Chicken is the most consumed type of protein, accounting for about half of the meat intake.
ukraine: Populated places in Ukraine are split into two categories: urban and rural.
ukraine: ambassador William Taylor said that using "the Ukraine" implies disregard for Ukrainian sovereignty.
ukraine: Literary activity faced a sudden decline after the Mongol invasion of Kievan Rus', before seeing a revival beginning in the 14th century, and was advanced in the 16th century with the invention of the printing press.
ukraine: Gender roles also tend to be more traditional, and grandparents play a greater role in bringing up children, than in the West.
ukraine: Ukraine has many environmental issues.
ukraine: The World Bank has stated that Ukraine is highly vulnerable to climate change.
ukraine: The conflict over Ukraine, a part of the broader Russian Civil War, devastated the whole of the former Russian Empire, including eastern and central Ukraine.
ukraine: An attempt to create an independent state, the left-leaning Ukrainian People's Republic (UPR), was first announced by Mykhailo Hrushevsky, but the period was plagued by an extremely unstable political and military environment.
ukraine: The country's only mountains are the Carpathian Mountains in the west, of which the highest is Hoverla at 2,061 metres (6,762 ft), and the Crimean Mountains, in the extreme south along the coast.
ukraine: There are over 1,600 km (1,000 mi) of navigable waterways on 7 rivers, mostly on the Danube, Dnieper and Pripyat.
ukraine: military forces.
ukraine: German armies invaded the Soviet Union on 22 June 1941, initiating nearly four years of total war.
ukraine: Ukrainian-language literature is also being destroyed on a massive scale.
ukraine: These include initial roots which were established in the state of Kievan Rus'.
ukraine: In 1569, the Union of Lublin established the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, and most of the Ukrainian lands were transferred from Lithuania to the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland, becoming de jure Polish territory.
ukraine: Some of the Ukrainians settled in the Far East, too.
ukraine: The Ukrainian government estimates that the population in the regions controlled by Ukraine was 25 to 27 million in 2024.
ukraine: To the east there are the south-western spurs of the Central Russian Upland over which runs the border with Russia.
ukraine: For example Eritrea sourced 47 percent of its wheat imports in 2021 from Ukraine.
ukraine: Meanwhile, modern-day Bukovina was occupied by Romania and Carpathian Ruthenia was admitted to Czechoslovakia as an autonomous region.
ukraine: Ukraine has the world's second-largest Eastern Orthodox population, after Russia.
ukraine: Elements from traditional Ukrainian folk music made their way into Western music and even into modern jazz.
ukraine: Meanwhile, the recently constituted Soviet Ukraine became one of the founding republics of the Soviet Union.
ukraine: All Ukraine's rivers freeze over in winter, limiting navigation.
ukraine: The World Justice Project ranks Ukraine 66 out of 99 countries surveyed in its annual Rule of Law Index.
ukraine: Ukrainian embroidery varies depending on the region of origin and the designs have a long history of motifs, compositions, choice of colours and types of stitches.
ukraine: There are also 886 urban-type settlements and 28,552 villages.
ukraine: Also hailing from Ukraine is Vasyl Lomachenko, a 2008 and 2012 Olympic gold medalist.
ukraine: Some western Ukrainians, who had only joined the Soviet Union in 1939, hailed the Germans as liberators, but that did not last long as the Nazis made little attempt to exploit dissatisfaction with Stalinist policies.
ukraine: Free higher education in state and communal educational establishments is provided on a competitive basis.
ukraine: Ukrainian universities confer two degrees: the bachelor's degree (4 years) and the master's degree (5–6th year), in accordance with the Bologna process.
ukraine: This poses risks to the agricultural sector.
ukraine: As of 2021, Ukraine was preparing to formally apply for EU membership in 2024, in order to join the European Union in the 2030s, however, with the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy requested that the country be admitted to the EU immediately.
ukraine: Within weeks, Russian was declared a regional language of several southern and eastern oblasts (provinces) and cities.
ukraine: The only body that may interpret the constitution and determine whether legislation conforms to it is the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ukraine: The organisation of higher education in Ukraine is built up in accordance with the structure of education of the world's higher developed countries, as is defined by UNESCO and the UN.
ukraine: Then, in 1863, the use of the Ukrainian language in print was effectively prohibited by the Russian Empire.
ukraine: The doctrine did not necessarily repress the use of the Ukrainian language, but it required that writers follow a certain style in their works.
ukraine: In 2021 mineral commodities and light industry were important sectors.
ukraine: In 1349, in the aftermath of the Galicia–Volhynia Wars, the region was partitioned between the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania.
ukraine: The right to amend the constitution through a special legislative procedure is vested exclusively in the parliament.
ukraine: Ukraine's rail network connects all major urban areas, port facilities and industrial centres.
ukraine: Some energy infrastructure was destroyed in the Russo-Ukrainian war.
ukraine: From the 6th century BC, Greek, Roman, and Byzantine colonies were established on the north-eastern shore of the Black Sea, such as at Tyras, Olbia, and Chersonesus.
ukraine: The top professional league is the Vyscha Liha ("premier league").
ukraine: The Ukrainian government does not recognise Rusyn and Rusyns as a distinct language and people.
ukraine: Since 2010 court proceedings can be held in Russian by mutual consent of the parties.
ukraine: Between 700 BC and 200 BC it was part of the Scythian kingdom.
ukraine: Judges are largely well protected from dismissal (except for gross misconduct).
ukraine: It was created as the armed forces of the underground Organisation of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN).
ukraine: In 2020, in Lublin, Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine created the Lublin Triangle initiative, which aims to create further cooperation between the three historical countries of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and further Ukraine's integration and accession to the EU and NATO.
ukraine: Ukrainian national motifs would eventually be used during the period of the Soviet Union and in modern independent Ukraine.
ukraine: Air and water pollution affects the country, as well as deforestation, and radiation contamination in the northeast from the 1986 accident at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant.
ukraine: Since 2014, during the Russian-Ukrainian war, Russia has been pursuing a policy of forced Russification of the territories of Ukraine it has occupied — schools teach only in Russian, even in entirely Ukrainian-speaking settlements.
ukraine: As a result, many of the earliest composers and performers within the Russian empire were ethnically Ukrainian, having been born or educated in Hlukhiv or having been closely associated with this music school.
ukraine: At the same time, the Ukrainian Liberation Army, another nationalist movement, fought alongside the Nazis.
ukraine: Laws, acts of the parliament and the cabinet, presidential decrees, and acts of the Crimean parliament may be abrogated by the Constitutional Court, should they be found to violate the constitution.
ukraine: From 1999 to 2001, Ukraine served as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
ukraine: The Bolsheviks consolidated control over much of the former empire and established the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, which became a constituent republic of the Soviet Union in 1922.
ukraine: After the entire egg was dyed, the wax was removed leaving only the colourful pattern.
ukraine: These policies left Ukraine with hundreds of stadia, swimming pools, gymnasia and many other athletic facilities.
ukraine: During the Baroque period, music had a place of considerable importance in the curriculum of the Kyiv-Mohyla Academy.
ukraine: Before that it was mainly through the Port of Odesa, from where ferries sailed regularly to Istanbul, Varna and Haifa.
ukraine: Judaism, Islam, and Hinduism were the religions of 0.2% of the population each.
ukraine: Ukrainian literature has origins in Old Church Slavonic writings, which was used as a liturgical and literary language following Christianisation in the 10th and 11th centuries.
ukraine: However, it is not compulsory to be treated in a state-run hospital as a number of private medical complexes do exist nationwide.
ukraine: Funds must follow the patient.
ukraine: The tsarist autocracy established a policy of Russification, suppressing the use of the Ukrainian language and curtailing the Ukrainian national identity.
ukraine: During the Iron Age, the land was inhabited by Iranian-speaking Cimmerians, Scythians, and Sarmatians.
ukraine: The latter did not shy from taking up arms against those they perceived as enemies and occupiers, including the Catholic Church with its local representatives.
ukraine: With growing urbanisation and modernisation and a cultural trend toward romantic nationalism, a Ukrainian intelligentsia committed to national rebirth and social justice emerged.
ukraine: Surveys of regional identities in Ukraine have shown that the feeling of belonging to a "Soviet identity" is strongest in the Donbas (about 40%) and the Crimea (about 30%).
ukraine: After the Mongol invasion of Kievan Rus', the Galician style continued to develop in the Kingdom of Galicia–Volhynia.
ukraine: From traditional folk music, to classical and modern rock, Ukraine has produced several internationally recognised musicians including Kirill Karabits, Okean Elzy and Ruslana.
ukraine: Ukrainian is the primary language used in the vast majority of Ukraine.
ukraine: Although rail freight transport fell in the 1990s, Ukraine is still one of the world's highest rail users.
ukraine: A 2021 survey conducted by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology (KIIS) found that 82% of Ukrainians declared themselves to be religious, while 7% were atheists, and a further 11% found it difficult to answer the question.
ukraine: These organised massacres were an attempt by the OUN to create a homogeneous Ukrainian state without a Polish minority living within its borders, and to prevent the post-war Polish state from asserting its sovereignty over areas that had been part of pre-war Poland.
ukraine: Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Ukraine's population hit a peak of roughly 52 million in 1993.
ukraine: Ukrainian school textbooks have been banned, and those who wish to study in Ukrainian are forced to do so in secret from the occupation authorities.
ukraine: Emergency medical service is considered to be fully funded by the state.
ukraine: The V-Dem Institute found ongoing democratic backsliding in Ukraine as of 2025 due to restrictions on freedom of speech and freedom of association.
ukraine: Ruslan Ponomariov is the former world champion.
ukraine: About 1% of Ukrainians lived below the national poverty line in 2019.
ukraine: He is the unified lightweight world champion who ties the record for winning a world title in the fewest professional fights; three.
ukraine: Many Ukrainians also played for the Soviet national football team, most notably Ballon d'Or winners Ihor Belanov and Oleh Blokhin.
ukraine: National dress is woven and highly decorated.
ukraine: The 24 oblasts and Crimea are subdivided into 136 raions (districts) and city municipalities of regional significance, or second-level administrative units.
ukraine: Ukraine covers an area of 603,550 square kilometres (233,030 sq mi), with a coastline of 2,782 kilometres (1,729 mi).
ukraine: Those who resisted were arrested and deported to gulags and work camps.
ukraine: Pickled vegetables are considered a delicacy.
ukraine: Due to its extensive fertile land, the country is an important exporter of grain, though grain production has declined since 2022 due to the Russo-Ukrainian war, endangering global food security.
ukraine: In 1441, Genghisid prince Haci I Giray founded the Crimean Khanate on the Crimean Peninsula and the surrounding steppes; the Khanate orchestrated Tatar slave raids.
ukraine: The Mongol invasions in the mid-13th century devastated Kievan Rus'; following the Siege of Kyiv in 1240, the city was destroyed by the Mongols.
ukraine: Western Ukraine, particularly in the Carpathian Mountains, receives around 120 centimetres (47.2 in) of precipitation annually, while Crimea and the coastal areas of the Black Sea receive around 40 centimetres (15.7 in).
ukraine: Khmelnytsky founded the Cossack Hetmanate, which existed until 1764 (some sources claim until 1782).
ukraine: After a final resurgence under the rule of Vladimir II Monomakh (1113–1125) and his son Mstislav (1125–1132), Kievan Rus' finally disintegrated into separate principalities following Mstislav's death, though ownership of Kyiv would still carry great prestige for decades.
ukraine: There is somewhat more coniferous than deciduous forest.
ukraine: Military units of other states participated in multinational military exercises with Ukrainian forces in Ukraine regularly, including U.S.
ukraine: Ukrainian music sometimes presents a perplexing mix of exotic melismatic singing with chordal harmony.
ukraine: Kyiv is Ukraine's capital and largest city, followed by Kharkiv, Odesa, and Dnipro.
ukraine: The Cossacks established an independent society and popularised a new kind of epic poem, which marked a high point of Ukrainian oral literature.
ukraine: In 2021, agriculture was the biggest sector of the economy.
ukraine: Ukraine has numerous tourist attractions: mountain ranges suitable for skiing, hiking and fishing; the Black Sea coastline as a popular summer destination; nature reserves of different ecosystems; and churches, castle ruins and other architectural and park landmarks.
ukraine: In 2021, Ukraine's GDP per capita by purchasing power parity was just over $14,000.
ukraine: Overall, more than 30 nations depend on Ukraine and the Russian Federation for over 30 percent of their wheat import needs, many of them in North Africa and Western and Central Asia.
ukraine: By the 1830s, a Ukrainian romantic literature began to develop, and the nation's most renowned cultural figure, romanticist poet-painter Taras Shevchenko emerged.
ukraine: The name of Ukraine is frequently interpreted as coming from the old Slavic term for 'borderland' as is the word krajina.
ukraine: The total losses inflicted upon the Ukrainian population during the war are estimated at 6 million, including an estimated one and a half million Jews killed by the Einsatzgruppen, sometimes with the help of local collaborators.
ukraine: Other normative acts are subject to judicial review.
ukraine: Since becoming the undisputed cruiserweight champion in 2018, Oleksandr Usyk has also gone on to win the unified WBA (Super), IBF, WBO and IBO heavyweight titles.
ukraine: On 7 February 2019, the Verkhovna Rada voted to amend the constitution to state Ukraine's strategic objectives as joining the European Union and NATO.
ukraine: According to the report "Ukraine: Forced Russified Education Under Occupation" by Human Rights Watch, the Russian occupation authorities and other high-ranking Russian officials have taken and continue to take measures to eradicate the Ukrainian language in the occupied territories.
ukraine: The main regulatory authority for the broadcast media is the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Council of Ukraine (NTRBCU), tasked with licencing media outlets and ensure their compliance with the law.
ukraine: The Cossack Hetmanate emerged in central Ukraine in the 17th century but was partitioned between Russia and Poland before being gradually absorbed by the Russian Empire in the 18th century.
ukraine: It has been in the process of joining the European Union and applied to join NATO in 2022.
ukraine: Court justices are appointed by presidential decree for an initial period of five years, after which Ukraine's Supreme Council confirms their positions for life.
ukraine: In the city of Kolomyia near the foothills of the Carpathian Mountains, the museum of Pysanka was built in 2000 and won a nomination as the monument of modern Ukraine in 2007, part of the Seven Wonders of Ukraine action.
ukraine: The country planned to convert the current conscript-based military into a professional volunteer military.
ukraine: The heaviest concentration of railway track is the Donbas region.
ukraine: The Seven Wonders of Ukraine and Seven Natural Wonders of Ukraine are selections of the most important landmarks of Ukraine, chosen by Ukrainian experts and an Internet-based public vote.
ukraine: The European Union (EU) has encouraged Ukraine to implement the PCA fully before discussions begin on an association agreement, issued at the EU Summit in December 1999 in Helsinki, recognises Ukraine's long-term aspirations but does not discuss association.
ukraine: All cities have a certain degree of self-rule depending on their significance such as national significance (as in the case of Kyiv and Sevastopol), regional significance (within each oblast or autonomous republic) or district significance (all the rest of cities).
ukraine: Various defensive weapons including drones were supplied by many countries, but not fighter jets.
ukraine: Before the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the country had an estimated population of over 41 million people, and was the eighth-most populous country in Europe.
ukraine: According to the 1897 census, there were 223,000 ethnic Ukrainians in Siberia and 102,000 in Central Asia.
ukraine: Weaving with handmade looms is still practised in the village of Krupove, situated in Rivne Oblast.
ukraine: The courts enjoy legal, financial and constitutional freedom guaranteed by Ukrainian law since 2002.
ukraine: Ukraine's new president, Leonid Kravchuk, went on to sign the Belavezha Accords and made Ukraine a founding member of the much looser Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), though Ukraine never became a full member of the latter as it did not ratify the agreement founding CIS.
ukraine: In the late 2010s 1.4 million Ukrainians were internally displaced due to the war in Donbas, and in early 2022, over 4.1 million fled the country after the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, causing the Ukrainian refugee crisis.
ukraine: In 2019 5–15% of the Ukrainian population were categorised as middle class.
ukraine: After his death, the Hetmanate went through a devastating 30-year war amongst Russia, Poland, the Crimean Khanate, the Ottoman Empire, and Cossacks, known as "The Ruin" (1657–1686), for control of the Cossack Hetmanate.
ukraine: Two years later the Ukraine national basketball team finished sixth in EuroBasket 2013 and qualified to FIBA World Cup for the first time in its history.
ukraine: In 1686, the Metropolitanate of Kyiv was annexed by the Moscow Patriarchate through a synodal letter of the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople Dionysius IV, thus placing the Metropolitanate of Kyiv under the authority of Moscow.
ukraine: After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Ukraine inherited a 780,000-man military force on its territory, equipped with the third-largest nuclear weapons arsenal in the world.
ukraine: The Goths stayed in the area, but came under the sway of the Huns from the 370s.
ukraine: In 1992, Ukraine joined the then-Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (now the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)), and also became a member of the North Atlantic Cooperation Council.
ukraine: To the southwest, the Danube Delta forms the border with Romania.
ukraine: It operated domestic and international passenger flights and cargo services to Europe, the Middle East, the United States, Canada, and Asia.
ukraine: As of 2022 75% of the population use the internet, and social media is widely used by government and people.
ukraine: Following the death of Stalin in 1953, Nikita Khrushchev became the new leader of the USSR, who began the policies of de-stalinisation and the Khrushchev Thaw.
ukraine: Ukraine's economy in general underperformed since the time independence came due to pervasive corruption and mismanagement, which, particularly in the 1990s, led to protests and organised strikes.
ukraine: Ukrainian boxers are amongst the best in the world.
ukraine: The war with Russia worsened Ukrainian children physical and mental health.
ukraine: During the Russo-Ukrainian war, the Russians bombed the Maksymovych Scientific Library of the Taras Shevchenko Kyiv National University, Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine, the National Scientific Medical Library of Ukraine and the Kyiv City Youth Library.
ukraine: Because of the Soviet Union's emphasis on total access of education for all citizens, which continues today, the literacy rate is an estimated 99.4%.
ukraine: In 2021, the average salary in Ukraine reached its highest level at almost ₴14,300 (US$525) per month.
ukraine: There is no consensus among scholars whether Rusyn, also spoken in Zakarpattia, is a distinct language or a dialect of Ukrainian.
ukraine: The National News Agency of Ukraine, Ukrinform was founded here in 1918.
ukraine: By 1996 the country had become free of nuclear weapons.
ukraine: The situation was worsened by a famine in 1946–1947, which was caused by a drought and the wartime destruction of infrastructure, killing at least tens of thousands of people.
ukraine: Chernozem, the country's black-coloured highly fertile soil, produces some of the world's most flavourful crops.
ukraine: After a failed coup by some Communist leaders in Moscow at deposing Gorbachov, outright independence was proclaimed on 24 August 1991.
ukraine: Many roads and bridges were destroyed, and international maritime travel was blocked by the Russo-Ukrainian war.
ukraine: These territorial gains of the USSR were internationally recognised by the Paris peace treaties of 1947.
ukraine: During his term as head of the Soviet Union, Crimea was transferred from the Russian SFSR to the Ukrainian SSR, formally as a friendship gift to Ukraine and for economic reasons.
ukraine: More than 700 cities and towns and 28,000 villages were destroyed.
ukraine: In addition, patients who suffer from chronic diseases, which cause a high toll of disability and mortality, are provided with free or low-price medicine.
ukraine: For the first time in history, the nation was united.
ukraine: Ukraine took consistent steps toward reduction of conventional weapons.
ukraine: The state soon fragmented as the relative importance of regional powers rose again.
ukraine: Kievan Rus' became the largest and most powerful realm in Europe in the 10th and 11th centuries, but gradually disintegrated into rival regional powers before being destroyed by the Mongols in the 13th century.
ukraine: The 19th century saw the rise of Ukrainian nationalism.
ukraine: Ukrainisation was part of the Soviet-wide policy of Korenisation (literally indigenisation), which was intended to promote the advancement of native peoples, their language and culture into the governance of their respective republics.
ukraine: Both organisations, the OUN and the UPA, supported the goal of an independent Ukrainian state on the territory with a Ukrainian ethnic majority.
ukraine: Chess is a popular sport in Ukraine.
ukraine: The Communist era had quite a strong effect on the art and writing of Ukraine.
ukraine: This feat made him one of only three boxers to have unified the cruiserweight world titles and become a world heavyweight champion.
ukraine: From mid-1943 until the end of the war, the UPA carried out massacres of ethnic Poles in the Volhynia and Eastern Galicia regions, killing around 100,000 Polish civilians, which brought reprisals.
ukraine: The conviction rate is over 99%, equal to the conviction rate of the Soviet Union, with suspects often being incarcerated for long periods before trial.
ukraine: Its trade share is even greater in the sunflower oil sector, with the country accounting for about 50 percent of world exports in 2020/2021.
ukraine: Some regions lack adequate supplies of potable water.
ukraine: Historically, Soviet Ukraine joined the United Nations in 1945 as one of the original members following a Western compromise with the Soviet Union.
ukraine: officials estimated that up to 70,000 Ukrainian soldiers were killed and 100,000 to 120,000 wounded during the Russo-Ukrainian war.
ukraine: Together they pushed back Ukrainian troops to the frontline established in February 2015, i.e.
ukraine: Urban populated places are split further into cities and urban-type settlements (a Soviet administrative invention), while rural populated places consist of villages and settlements (a generally used term).
ukraine: Whereas Ivan Kotliarevsky is considered to be the father of literature in the Ukrainian vernacular; Shevchenko is the father of a national revival.
ukraine: The Victory Day is celebrated as one of eleven Ukrainian national holidays.
ukraine: Despite this, standards of hygiene and patient-care have fallen.
ukraine: According to the Ukrainian constitution, access to free education is granted to all citizens.
ukraine: However, all were united by an overarching Ukrainian identity based on shared economic difficulties, showing that other attitudes are determined more by culture and politics than by demographic differences.
ukraine: Use of colour is very important and has roots in Ukrainian folklore.
ukraine: Despite improvements, as in Moldova corruption in Ukraine remains an obstacle to joining the EU; the country was rated 104th out of 181 in the Corruption Perceptions Index for 2025.
ukraine: It is common for libraries to supply required books for all registered students.
ukraine: Ukraine produces the fourth largest number of post-secondary graduates in Europe, while being ranked seventh in population.
ukraine: Ukraine is also known for its decorative and folk traditions such as Petrykivka painting, Kosiv ceramics, and Cossack songs.
ukraine: The country then fell into a series of sharp recessions as a result of the Great Recession, the start of the Russo-Ukrainian War in 2014, and finally, the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine by Russia on 24 February 2022.
ukraine: The Ukrainian legal framework on media freedom is deemed "among the most progressive in eastern Europe", although implementation has been uneven.
ukraine: Northern migrations, reaching almost to Lake Ilmen, led to the emergence of the Ilmen Slavs and Krivichs.
ukraine: Ukraine faces a number of major public health issues and is considered to be in a demographic crisis because of its high death rate, low birth rate, and high emigration.
ukraine: The system of Ukrainian subdivisions reflects the country's status as a unitary state (as stated in the country's constitution) with unified legal and administrative regimes for each unit.
ukraine: Candidate status was granted in June 2022.
ukraine: Ukraine is considered a middle power in global affairs.
ukraine: The culture of Ukraine has also been influenced by its eastern and western neighbours, reflected in its architecture, music and art.
ukraine: Protestants are a growing community in Ukraine, who made up 1.9% of the population in 2016, but rose to 2.2% of the population in 2018.
ukraine: Sergey Bubka held the record in the Pole vault from 1993 to 2014; with great strength, speed and gymnastic abilities, he was voted the world's best athlete on several occasions.
ukraine: Music is a major part of Ukrainian culture, with a long history and many influences.
ukraine: Russian was the de facto dominant language of the Soviet Union but Ukrainian also held official status in the republic, and in the schools of the Ukrainian SSR, learning Ukrainian was mandatory.
ukraine: Literary freedom grew in the late 1980s and early 1990s alongside the decline and collapse of the USSR and the reestablishment of Ukrainian independence in 1991.
ukraine: It remains among the poorest countries in Europe with the lowest nominal GDP per capita.
ukraine: Many thousands of police officers were stationed throughout the capital, primarily to dissuade protesters from challenging the state's authority but also to provide a quick reaction force in case of need; most officers were armed.
ukraine: It was also estimated that there were about 10–40,000 Koreans in Ukraine, who lived mostly in the south of the country, belonging to the historical Koryo-saram group, as well as about 47,600 Roma (though the Council of Europe estimates a higher number of about 260,000).
ukraine: The Ukrainian higher education system comprises higher educational establishments, scientific and methodological facilities under national, municipal and self-governing bodies in charge of education.
ukraine: After its conquest, most of the Ukrainian SSR was organised within the Reichskommissariat Ukraine, with the intention of exploiting its resources and eventual German settlement.
ukraine: The president retains the authority to nominate the ministers of foreign affairs and of defence for parliamentary approval, as well as the power to appoint the prosecutor general and the head of the Security Service.
ukraine: After Khmelnytsky suffered a crushing defeat at the Battle of Berestechko in 1651, he turned to the Russian tsar for help.
ukraine: Ukraine is the second-largest European country, after Russia, and the largest country entirely in Europe.
ukraine: The first dedicated musical academy was set up in Hlukhiv in 1738 and students were taught to sing and play violin and bandura from manuscripts.
ukraine: In 1430, the region of Podolia was incorporated into Poland, and the lands of modern-day Ukraine became increasingly settled by Poles.
ukraine: Ukraine contains six terrestrial ecoregions: Central European mixed forests, Crimean Submediterranean forest complex, East European forest steppe, Pannonian mixed forests, Carpathian montane conifer forests, and Pontic steppe.
ukraine: Ukraine gained independence in 1991 as the Soviet Union dissolved, declaring itself neutral.
ukraine: During the recession, between 1991 and 1999, Ukraine lost 60% of its GDP and suffered from hyperinflation that peaked at 10,000% in 1993.
ukraine: This greatly stifled creativity.
ukraine: The brothers Vitali and Wladimir Klitschko are former heavyweight world champions who held multiple world titles throughout their careers.
ukraine: Similar historical divisions also remain evident at the level of individual social identification.
ukraine: Finally, amid a full-scale war with Russia, Ukraine was granted candidate status to the European Union on 23 June 2022.
ukraine: General practitioners will provide basic care for patients.
ukraine: Deposed President Viktor Yanukovych considered the then level of co-operation between Ukraine and NATO sufficient, and was against Ukraine joining NATO.
ukraine: In the battle of Kyiv, the city was acclaimed as a "Hero City", because of its fierce resistance.
ukraine: In 1992, Ukraine signed the Lisbon Protocol in which the country agreed to give up all nuclear weapons to Russia for disposal and to join the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as a non-nuclear weapon state.
ukraine: Average annual temperatures range from 5.5–7 °C (41.9–44.6 °F) in the north, to 11–13 °C (51.8–55.4 °F) in the south.
ukraine: Ukrainian specialties also include Chicken Kiev and Kyiv cake.
ukraine: Widely used herbs include dill, parsley, basil, coriander and chives.
ukraine: During the first few weeks of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine the military found it difficult to defend against shelling, missiles and high level bombing; but light infantry used shoulder-mounted weapons effectively to destroy tanks, armoured vehicles and low-flying aircraft.
ukraine: It was later agreed that the question of joining NATO should be answered by a national referendum at some point in the future.
ukraine: The military conflict with Russia shifted the government's policy towards the West.
ukraine: In the 2000s, the government was leaning towards NATO, and deeper cooperation with the alliance was set by the NATO-Ukraine Action Plan signed in 2002.
ukraine: During the inter-war period, in Poland, Marshal Józef Piłsudski sought Ukrainian support by offering local autonomy as a way to minimise Soviet influence in Poland's eastern Kresy region.
ukraine: Over the next three centuries, the Crimean slave trade would enslave an estimated two million in the region.
ukraine: In July 1922, arrests and deportations of Ukrainian intellectuals (e.g.
ukraine: In early 2022 Ukraine and Moldova decoupled their electricity grids from the Integrated Power System of Russia and Belarus; and the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity synchronised them with continental Europe.
ukraine: These tests are later used for university admissions.
ukraine: As of 1 January 1953, Ukrainians were second only to Russians among adult "special deportees", comprising 20% of the total.
ukraine: As a result of the Russo-Ukrainian war, millions in Ukraine suffered physical injuries and psychological traumas.
ukraine: Other than near the newly discovered coal fields of the Donbas, and in some larger cities such as Odesa and Kyiv, Ukraine largely remained an agricultural and resource extraction economy.
ukraine: Ukraine produces nearly all types of transportation vehicles and spacecraft.
ukraine: Effective in August 2012, a new law on regional languages entitled any local language spoken by at least a 10 percent minority be declared official within that area.
ukraine: This represented the final extension of Ukrainian territory and formed the basis for the internationally recognised borders of Ukraine to this day.
ukraine: Despite supplying emergency financial support, the IMF expected the economy to shrink considerably by 35% in 2022 due to the Russo-Ukrainian war.
ukraine: According to the Primary Chronicle, the Rus' people initially consisted of Varangians from Scandinavia.
ukraine: The 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine began the current phase of the war.
ukraine: Ukrainian nationalism developed and, following the Russian Revolution in 1917, the short-lived Ukrainian People's Republic was formed.
ukraine: In 1945, the Ukrainian SSR became one of the founding members of the United Nations (UN), part of a special agreement at the Yalta Conference, and, alongside Belarus, had voting rights in the UN even though they were not independent.
ukraine: Following independence, the government of Ukraine began restoring the use of the Ukrainian language in schools and government through a policy of Ukrainisation.
ukraine: Rugby league is played throughout Ukraine.
ukraine: Water availability from the major river basins is expected to decrease due to climate change, especially in summer.
ukraine: 67% of Ukrainians speak Ukrainian as their primary language, while 30% speak Russian as their primary language.
ukraine: Since January 2023, the historic centre of Odesa has been inscribed on the List of World Heritage in Danger.
ukraine: This tradition is thousands of years old, and precedes the arrival of Christianity to Ukraine.
ukraine: Ukraine is a unitary state and its system of government is a semi-presidential republic.
ukraine: BBC Ukrainian started its broadcasts in 1992.
ukraine: Artisan textile arts play an important role in Ukrainian culture, especially in Ukrainian wedding traditions.
ukraine: Instead, the Nazis preserved the collective-farm system, carried out genocidal policies against Jews, deported millions of people to work in Germany, and began a depopulation programme to prepare for German colonisation.
ukraine: Since 2012, the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine has formed the National Register of Elements of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Ukraine, which consists of 115 items as of September 2025.
