universe: The proportions of all types of matter and energy have changed over the history of the universe.
universe: The universe comprises all of existence: all forms of matter and energy, and the structures they form, from sub-atomic particles to entire galactic filaments.
universe: The Milky Way is in the Local Group of galaxies, which in turn is in the Laniakea Supercluster.
universe: The observable portion of the universe is approximately 93 billion light-years in diameter at present.
universe: An easily visualized metaphor of these concepts is a group of separate soap bubbles, in which observers living on one soap bubble cannot interact with those on other soap bubbles, even in principle.
universe: Over the centuries, improvements in astronomical observations and theories of motion and gravitation led to ever more accurate descriptions of the universe.
universe: It started roughly 1 second after the Big Bang, after the majority of hadrons and anti-hadrons annihilated each other at the end of the hadron epoch.
universe: Typical galaxies range from dwarfs with as few as ten million (107) stars up to giants with one trillion (1012) stars.
universe: Observations indicate that the expansion of the universe is accelerating, raising the possibility of a Big Rip.
universe: In other stories, the universe is created by crafting it from pre-existing materials, such as the corpse of a dead god—as from Tiamat in the Babylonian epic Enuma Elish or from the giant Ymir in Norse mythology—or from chaotic materials, as in Izanagi and Izanami in Japanese mythology.
universe: Due to the finite speed of light, there is a limit (known as the particle horizon) to how far light can travel over the age of the universe.
universe: For example, the proton is formed of two up quarks and one down quark; the neutron is formed of two down quarks and one up quark; and the electron is a kind of lepton.
universe: According to one common terminology, each "soap bubble" of spacetime is denoted as a universe, whereas humans' particular spacetime is denoted as the universe, just as humans call Earth's moon the Moon.
universe: English ed.).
universe: These were probably very massive, luminous, non metallic and short-lived.
universe: Some of the earliest cosmological models of the universe were developed by ancient Greek and Indian philosophers and were geocentric, placing Earth at the center.
universe: The remaining two interactions, the weak and strong nuclear forces, decline very rapidly with distance; their effects are confined mainly to sub-atomic length scales.
universe: Babylonian astronomers of the 7th century BCE viewed the world as a flat disk surrounded by the ocean.
universe: A curved path like an orbit is not the result of a force deflecting a body from an ideal straight-line path, but rather the body's attempt to fall freely through a background that is itself curved by the presence of other masses.
universe: The first coherent model was proposed by Eudoxus of Cnidos, a student of Plato who followed Plato's idea that heavenly motions had to be circular.
universe: This supercluster spans over 500 million light-years, while the Local Group spans over 10 million light-years.
universe: The prevailing model for the evolution of the universe is the Big Bang theory.
universe: The universe appears to be a smooth spacetime continuum consisting of three spatial dimensions and one temporal (time) dimension.
universe: A flat or negatively curved universe is spatially infinite.
universe: A sufficiently dense universe with positive curvature would eventually recollapse in a Big Crunch, possibly followed by a Big Bounce.
universe: In the widely accepted ΛCDM cosmological model, dark matter accounts for about 25.8%±1.1% of the mass and energy in the universe while about 69.2%±1.2% is dark energy, a mysterious form of energy responsible for the acceleration of the expansion of the universe.
universe: OCLC 809932784.
universe: Another synonym was ὁ κόσμος (ho kósmos) meaning 'the world, the cosmos'.
universe: Raine, Derek; Thomas, Edwin G.
universe: Approximately 10 seconds after the Big Bang, the temperature of the universe had fallen to the point where lepton–anti-lepton pairs were no longer created.
universe: From approximately 10−6 seconds after the Big Bang, during a period known as the hadron epoch, the temperature of the universe had fallen sufficiently to allow quarks to bind together into hadrons, and the mass of the universe was dominated by hadrons.
universe: Philoponus' arguments against an infinite past were used by the early Muslim philosopher, Al-Kindi (Alkindus); the Jewish philosopher, Saadia Gaon (Saadia ben Joseph); and the Muslim theologian, Al-Ghazali (Algazel).
universe: They were responsible for the gradual reionization of the universe between about 200–500 million years and 1 billion years, and also for seeding the universe with elements heavier than helium, through stellar nucleosynthesis.
universe: But Aristarchus has brought out a book consisting of certain hypotheses, wherein it appears, as a consequence of the assumptions made, that the universe is many times greater than the universe just mentioned.
universe: Other than neutrinos, a form of hot dark matter, dark matter has not been detected directly, making it one of the greatest mysteries in modern astrophysics.
universe: Atomic nuclei were created in the process of nucleosynthesis which occurred during the first few minutes of the photon epoch.
universe: According to Strabo (1.1.9), Seleucus was the first to state that the tides are due to the attraction of the Moon, and that the height of the tides depends on the Moon's position relative to the Sun.
universe: The proper distance (measured at a fixed time) between Earth and the edge of the observable universe is 46 billion light-years (14 billion parsecs), making the diameter of the observable universe about 93 billion light-years (28 billion parsecs).
universe: The Latin word 'universum' was used by Cicero and later Latin authors in many of the same senses as the modern English word is used.
universe: Contributions from scalar fields that are constant in space are usually also included in the cosmological constant.
universe: The geometry of these spatial slices is set by the density parameter, Omega (Ω), defined as the average matter density of the universe divided by a critical value.
universe: Between the larger structures are voids, which are typically 10–150 Mpc (33 million–490 million ly) in diameter.
universe: The physical universe has been defined as "The totality of all space and time; all that is, has been, and will be." The universe contains all energy and matter, including therefore planets, moons, stars, galaxies, and the contents of intergalactic space.
universe: There are many competing hypotheses about the ultimate fate of the universe and about what, if anything, preceded the Big Bang.
universe: Other contents are neutrinos (less than 0.3%) and electromagnetic radiation (about 0.005%).
universe: Matter, dark matter, and dark energy are distributed homogeneously throughout the universe over length scales longer than 300 million light-years (ly) or so.
universe: Misner, Charles W.; Thorne, Kip S.; Wheeler, John Archibald; Kip; Wheeler; J.A.
universe: Synonyms are also found in Latin authors (totum, mundus, natura) and survive in modern languages, e.g., the German words Das All, Weltall, and Natur for universe.
universe: The word universe may also refer to concepts such as the cosmos, the world, and nature.
universe: As the universe expanded, the energy density of electromagnetic radiation decreased more quickly than that of matter because the energy of each photon decreased as it is cosmologically redshifted.
universe: Bristol: Institute of Physics Publ.
universe: The relation governing this evolution is known as the Friedmann equation, introduced by Alexander Friedmann.
universe: Other Greek scientists, such as the Pythagorean philosopher Philolaus, postulated (according to Stobaeus' account) that at the center of the universe was a "central fire" around which the Earth, Sun, Moon and planets revolved in uniform circular motion.
universe: After nucleosynthesis ended, the universe was still far too hot for matter to form neutral atoms, so it contained a hot, dense, optically opaque plasma of negatively charged electrons, neutral neutrinos and positive nuclei.
universe: An introduction to the science of cosmology.
universe: Unlike plasma, neutral atoms are transparent to many wavelengths of light, so for the first time, the universe also became transparent.
universe: The mass of the universe was then dominated by photons as it entered the following photon epoch.
universe: Over time, the universe and its contents have evolved.
universe: Universe (Rev.
universe: Seleucus' arguments for a heliocentric cosmology were probably related to the phenomenon of tides.
universe: Because humans cannot observe space beyond the edge of the observable universe, it is unknown whether the size of the universe in its totality is finite or infinite.
universe: In other stories, the universe emanates from fundamental principles, such as Brahman and Prakrti, and the creation myth of the Serers.
universe: The modern era of cosmology began with Albert Einstein's 1915 general theory of relativity, which made it possible to quantitatively predict the origin, evolution, and conclusion of the universe as a whole.
universe: In 1919, when the Hooker Telescope was completed, the prevailing view was that the universe consisted entirely of the Milky Way Galaxy.
universe: The evolution of the scale factor depends on both the spatial curvature and the cosmological constant, which represents the energy density of empty space and may be associated with dark energy.
universe: This cosmology was accepted by Isaac Newton, Christiaan Huygens and later scientists.
universe: These FLRW models thus support inflationary models and the standard model of cosmology, describing a flat, homogeneous universe presently dominated by dark matter and dark energy.
universe: This instability was clarified in 1902 by the Jeans instability criterion.
universe: As a result, photons no longer interacted frequently with matter and the universe became transparent.
universe: You, King Gelon, are aware the universe is the name given by most astronomers to the sphere the center of which is the center of the Earth, while its radius is equal to the straight line between the center of the Sun and the center of the Earth.
universe: Some of the earliest cosmological models of the universe were geocentric, placing Earth at the center.
universe: On a mass–energy equivalence basis, the density of dark energy (~ 7 × 10−30 g/cm3) is much less than the density of ordinary matter or dark matter within galaxies.
universe: Since the Big Bang, the universe has expanded monotonically.
universe: The ultimate fate of the universe depends on both the curvature and the cosmological constant.
universe: Roughly a century before Copernicus, the Christian scholar Nicholas of Cusa also proposed that the Earth rotates on its axis in his book, On Learned Ignorance (1440).
universe: ISBN 978-0-7503-0405-4.
universe: The only other astronomer from antiquity known by name who supported Aristarchus's heliocentric model was Seleucus of Seleucia, a Hellenistic astronomer who lived a century after Aristarchus.
universe: These particles are sometimes regarded as fundamental because they have no known substructure.
universe: Some philosophers and scientists support the inclusion of ideas and abstract concepts—such as mathematics and logic—in the definition of the universe.
universe: Initially, the temperature was high enough to allow the formation of hadron–anti-hadron pairs, which kept matter and antimatter in thermal equilibrium.
universe: The present overall density of this type of matter is very low, roughly 4.5 × 10−31 grams per cubic centimeter, corresponding to a density of the order of only one proton for every four cubic meters of volume.
universe: Later Greek philosophers, observing the motions of the heavenly bodies, were concerned with developing models of the universe based more profoundly on empirical evidence.
universe: Thales' student, Anaximander, proposed that everything came from the limitless apeiron.
universe: Of central importance is the Standard Model, a theory that is concerned with electromagnetic interactions and the weak and strong nuclear interactions.
universe: In contrast, a flat or negatively curved universe would expand indefinitely, approaching a Big Freeze and eventual heat death of the universe.
universe: printing ed.).
universe: Most modern, accepted theories of cosmology are based on general relativity and, more specifically, the predicted Big Bang.
universe: Analogies include an infinite plane (flat) or other geometries such as a torus.
universe: General relativity is the geometric theory of gravitation formulated by Albert Einstein in 1915 and remains the standard description of gravity in modern physics.
universe: In this era, the expansion of the universe is accelerating due to dark energy.
universe: Observations, including the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE), Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP), and Planck maps of the CMB, suggest that the universe is infinite in extent with a finite age, as described by the Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker (FLRW) models.
universe: The nature of both dark energy and dark matter is unknown.
universe: Aristotle elaborated upon this model, increasing the number of spheres to 55 in order to account for further details of planetary motion.
universe: Tiny variations in the temperature of the CMB correspond to variations in the density of the universe that were the early "seeds" from which all subsequent structure formation took place.
universe: The proposition is discussed among philosophers, scientists, theologians, and proponents of creationism.
universe: The hypothesis that the large-scale universe is homogeneous and isotropic is known as the cosmological principle.
universe: The geocentric model, consistent with planetary parallax, was assumed to be the explanation for the unobservability of stellar parallax.
universe: Oxford: Clarendon Pr.
universe: The Indian philosopher Kanada, founder of the Vaisheshika school, developed a notion of atomism and proposed that light and heat were varieties of the same substance.
universe: His student Zeno of Elea challenged everyday ideas about motion with several famous paradoxes.
universe: Many cultures have stories describing the origin of the world and universe.
universe: The post-Aristotle treatise De Mundo (of uncertain authorship and date) stated, "Five elements, situated in spheres in five regions, the less being in each case surrounded by the greater—namely, earth surrounded by water, water by air, air by fire, and fire by ether—make up the whole universe".
universe: This selects one of three possible geometries depending on whether Ω is equal to, less than, or greater than 1.
universe: Parmenides' poem On Nature has been read as saying that all change is an illusion, that the true underlying reality is eternally unchanging and of a single nature, or at least that the essential feature of each thing that exists must exist eternally, without origin, change, or end.
universe: Of the four fundamental interactions, gravitation is the dominant at astronomical length scales.
universe: ISBN 978-0-7167-0344-0.
universe: The earliest Greek philosophers noted that appearances can be deceiving, and sought to understand the underlying reality behind the appearances.
universe: During the next few minutes, some protons and neutrons combined to form atomic nuclei through nuclear fusion.
universe: Most leptons and anti-leptons were then eliminated in annihilation reactions, leaving a small residue of leptons.
universe: The Greek astronomer Aristarchus of Samos was the first known individual to propose a heliocentric model of the universe.
universe: There are about 1082 atoms in the observable universe – LiveScience, July 2021.
universe: Historically, there have been many ideas of the cosmos (cosmologies) and its origin (cosmogonies).
universe: The great majority of ordinary matter in the universe is unseen, since visible stars and gas inside galaxies and clusters account for less than 10 percent of the ordinary matter contribution to the mass–energy density of the universe.
universe: ISBN 978-0-387-10090-6.
universe: Since the early 20th century, the field of cosmology has established that the universe has been expanding for 13.8 billion years, starting from a dense fireball in an event called the Big Bang.
universe: During the Scientific Revolution, astronomical observations led to a heliocentric model.
universe: The classical theory of fields.
universe: According to Plutarch, Seleucus was the first to prove the heliocentric system through reasoning, but it is not known what arguments he used.
universe: The curvature can be flat, positively curved, or negatively curved.
universe: The mass–energy density of the universe, equivalent to about 5 protons per cubic meter, allowed it to expand for the last 13.8 billion years, giving time to form the universe as observed today.
universe: Although Heraclitus argued for eternal change, his contemporary Parmenides emphasized changelessness.
universe: Ordinary matter, attracted to these by gravity, formed large gas clouds and eventually, stars and galaxies, where the dark matter was most dense, and voids where it was least dense.
universe: The modern era of physical cosmology began in 1917, when Albert Einstein first applied his general theory of relativity to model the structure and dynamics of the universe.
universe: Ordinary ('baryonic') matter therefore composes only 4.84%±0.1% of the universe.
universe: Its successor, the general theory of relativity, explains gravity as curvature of spacetime arising due to its energy content.
universe: Gravity's effects are cumulative; by contrast, the effects of positive and negative charges tend to cancel one another, making electromagnetism relatively insignificant on astronomical length scales.
universe: S2CID 222087224.
universe: Democritus, and later philosophers—most notably Leucippus—proposed that the universe is composed of indivisible atoms moving through a void (vacuum), although Aristotle did not believe that to be feasible because air, like water, offers resistance to motion.
universe: The Aristotelian model was accepted in the Western world for roughly two millennia, until Copernicus revived Aristarchus's perspective that the astronomical data could be explained more plausibly if the Earth rotated on its axis and if the Sun were placed at the center of the universe.
universe: The special theory of relativity describes a flat spacetime.
universe: Big Bang nucleosynthesis shut down after about 20 minutes due to the rapid drop in temperature and density of the expanding universe.
universe: About 380,000 years after the Big Bang, the temperature of the universe fell to the point where nuclei could combine with electrons to create neutral atoms.
universe: The Standard Model is supported by the experimental confirmation of the existence of particles that compose matter: quarks and leptons, and their corresponding "antimatter" duals, as well as the force particles that mediate interactions: the photon, the W and Z bosons, and the gluon.
universe: The total amount of electromagnetic radiation generated within the universe has decreased by 1/2 in the past 2 billion years.
universe: New York, NY: Freeman.
universe: His four-element model became very popular.
universe: The success of such a model is largely due to the mathematical fact that any function (such as the position of a planet) can be decomposed into a set of circular functions (the Fourier modes).
universe: Landau LD, Lifshitz EM (1975).
universe: The universe also has vast regions of relative emptiness; the largest known void measures 1.8 billion ly (550 Mpc) across.
universe: The effects of this force are easily observable at the microscopic and at the macroscopic level because the photon has zero rest mass; this allows long distance interactions.
universe: "The Heliocentric System in Greek, Persian and Hindu Astronomy".
universe: A true force–particle "theory of everything" has not been attained.
universe: In particular, they noted the ability of matter to change forms (e.g., ice to water to steam) and several philosophers proposed that all the physical materials in the world are different forms of a single primordial material, or arche.
universe: A positively curved universe has a finite volume and can be visualized as a three-dimensional sphere.
universe: The model is based on general relativity and on symmetry assumptions such as the homogeneity and isotropy of space.
universe: This process, known as Big Bang nucleosynthesis, lasted for about 15 minutes, produced helium, with small amounts of deuterium (a form of hydrogen) and traces of lithium.
universe: New York Heidelberg: Springer.
universe: The spatial region from which we can receive light is called the observable universe.
universe: In another type of story, the universe is created from the union of male and female deities, as in the Māori story of Rangi and Papa.
universe: Tegmark calculated that our nearest so-called doppelgänger is 1010115 metres away from us (a double exponential function larger than a googolplex).
universe: The total size of the universe is not known.
universe: In the earliest stages of the universe, tiny fluctuations within the universe's density led to concentrations of dark matter gradually forming.
universe: Bibcode:1987NYASA.500..525V.
universe: All of the neutrons that did not fuse decayed in to protons and electrons.
universe: Liddell, Henry George & Scott, Robert (1994).
universe: The physical basis of these ideas have been challenged.
universe: For comparison, the Milky Way is roughly 87,400 light-years in diameter, and the nearest sister galaxy to the Milky Way, the Andromeda Galaxy, is located roughly 2.5 million light-years away.
universe: From studying the effects of gravity on both matter and light, it has been discovered that the universe contains much more matter than is accounted for by visible objects; stars, galaxies, nebulae and interstellar gas.
universe: Theories of an impersonal universe governed by physical laws were first proposed by the Greeks and Indians.
universe: The notion of temporal finitism was inspired by the doctrine of creation shared by the three Abrahamic religions: Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
universe: During the lepton epoch, the temperature of the universe was still high enough to create lepton–anti-lepton pairs, so leptons and anti-leptons were in thermal equilibrium.
universe: The Standard Model predicted the existence of the recently discovered Higgs boson, a particle that is a manifestation of a field within the universe that can endow particles with mass.
universe: The lepton epoch was the period in the evolution of the early universe in which the leptons dominated the mass of the universe.
universe: Dark matter neither emits nor absorbs light or any other electromagnetic radiation at any significant level.
universe: Soon after the Big Bang, primordial protons and neutrons formed from the quark–gluon plasma of the early universe as it cooled below two trillion degrees.
universe: The pre-Socratic Greek philosophers and Indian philosophers developed some of the earliest philosophical concepts of the universe.
universe: This matter includes stars, which produce nearly all of the light we see from galaxies, as well as interstellar gas in the interstellar and intergalactic media, planets, and all the objects from everyday life that we can bump into, touch or squeeze.
universe: Empirical evidence for the Earth's rotation on its axis, using the phenomenon of comets, was given by Tusi (1201–1274) and Ali Qushji (1403–1474).
universe: Giant clouds of hydrogen and helium were gradually drawn to the places where matter was most dense, forming the first galaxies, stars, and eventually, everything else.
universe: If the universe were too dense then it would re-collapse into a black hole.
universe: This marked the end of the radiation-dominated era and the start of the matter-dominated era.
universe: Assuming that the Lambda-CDM model is correct, the measurements of the parameters using a variety of techniques by numerous experiments yield a best value of the age of the universe at 13.799 ± 0.021 billion years, as of 2015.
universe: Discoveries in the early 20th century, including general relativity, led to the modern view of an expanding, isotropic, homogeneous universe.
universe: They denied the existence of substantial matter and proposed that movement consisted of momentary flashes of a stream of energy.
universe: Other hadrons are unstable under ordinary conditions and are thus insignificant constituents of the modern universe.
universe: Hadrons are categorized into two families: baryons (such as protons and neutrons) made of three quarks, and mesons (such as pions) made of one quark and one antiquark.
universe: Some speculative theories have proposed that our universe is but one of a set of disconnected universes, collectively denoted as the multiverse.
universe: Modern physics regards events as being organized into spacetime.
universe: 350 BC) and Ecphantus the Pythagorean.
universe: This is the common account as you have heard from astronomers.
universe: The stars are in fact much farther away than the distance that was generally assumed in ancient times, which is why stellar parallax is only detectable with precision instruments.
universe: Like Pythagoras, Plato believed that all things were composed of number, with Empedocles' elements taking the form of the Platonic solids.
universe: In this framework, the curvature of spacetime is determined by the energy and momentum of matter and radiation.
universe: For example, in one type of story, the world is born from a world egg; such stories include the Finnish epic poem Kalevala, the Chinese story of Pangu or the Indian Brahmanda Purana.
universe: This relationship is expressed through the Einstein field equations, which link the distribution of matter and energy to the geometry of spacetime.
universe: Anaximenes proposed the primordial material to be air on account of its perceived attractive and repulsive qualities that cause the arche to condense or dissociate into different forms.
universe: Ordinary matter commonly exists in four states (or phases): solid, liquid, gas, and plasma.
universe: In the Standard Model of particle physics, equal amounts antimatter and matter should have been created.
universe: The interval expresses how widely separated events are, not just in space or in time, but in the combined setting of spacetime.
universe: Empedocles proposed the elements to be earth, water, air and fire.
universe: At around 47,000 years, the energy density of matter became larger than that of photons and neutrinos, and began to dominate the large scale behavior of the universe.
universe: Electrons are stable and the most common charged lepton in the universe, whereas muons and taus are unstable particles that quickly decay after being produced in high energy collisions, such as those involving cosmic rays or carried out in particle accelerators.
universe: doi:10.1111/j.1749-6632.1987.tb37224.x.
universe: Texts and monographs in physics.
universe: Using the Hooker Telescope, Edwin Hubble identified Cepheid variables in several spiral nebulae and in 1922–1923 proved conclusively that Andromeda Nebula and Triangulum among others, were entire galaxies outside our own, thus proving that the universe consists of a multitude of galaxies.
universe: The remaining 4.9% of the mass–energy of the universe is ordinary matter, that is, atoms, ions, electrons and the objects they form.
universe: The photons released ("decoupled") when these atoms formed can still be seen today; they form the cosmic microwave background (CMB).
universe: Although this may seem counterintuitive, models with flat or negative curvature allow an infinite universe to emerge from an initial state in which the scale factor vanishes, consistent with the cosmological principle.
universe: A version of the model with a cosmological constant (Lambda) and cold dark matter, known as the Lambda-CDM model, provides an excellent account of most observations of the universe.
universe: Aristarchus thus believed the stars to be very far away, and saw this as the reason why stellar parallax had not been observed, that is, the stars had not been observed to move relative each other as the Earth moved around the Sun.
universe: New York: DK Pub.
universe: Current data suggest that the universe is close to flat, with a density near the critical value separating recollapse from eternal expansion.
universe: The existence and properties of dark matter are inferred from its gravitational effects on visible matter, radiation, and the large-scale structure of the universe.
universe: An atom consists of an atomic nucleus, made up of protons and neutrons (both of which are baryons), and electrons that orbit the nucleus.
universe: It is the carrier for the electromagnetic force.
universe: ISBN 978-0-08-018176-9.
universe: After about 377,000 years, the universe had cooled enough that electrons and nuclei could form the first stable atoms.
universe: This nucleosynthesis formed lighter elements, those with small atomic numbers up to lithium and beryllium, but the abundance of heavier elements dropped off sharply with increasing atomic number.
universe: Rindler, Wolfgang (1986).
universe: Pantheism is the philosophical religious belief that the universe itself is identical to divinity and a supreme being or entity.
universe: However, as the temperature of the universe continued to fall, hadron–anti-hadron pairs were no longer produced.
universe: Cultures generally regard these stories as having some truth.
universe: Therefore, an event in the spacetime of the physical universe can be identified by a set of four coordinates: (x, y, z, t).
universe: The first to do so was Thales, who proposed this material to be water.
universe: This idea originated with the special theory of relativity, which predicts that if one observer sees two events happening in different places at the same time, a second observer who is moving relative to the first will see those events happening at different times.
universe: In the Big Bang model, the earliest state of the universe was extremely hot and dense but the universe cooled during subsequent expansion.
universe: Neutrinos stream throughout the universe but rarely interact with normal matter.
universe: The curvature determines the global geometry of space.
universe: In the very early universe matter and antimatter annihilated each other leaving a high density of photons.
universe: Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences.
universe: Dark matter is estimated to constitute 26.8% of the total mass–energy and 84.5%  of the total matter in the universe.
universe: ISSN 0077-8923.
universe: Dark matter is a hypothetical kind of matter that is invisible to the entire electromagnetic spectrum, but which accounts for most of the matter in the universe.
universe: The universe has 10 billion times more matter than antimatter.
universe: Dark matter, a mysterious form of matter that has not yet been identified, accounts for 26.8% of the cosmic contents.
universe: A lepton is an elementary, half-integer spin particle that does not undergo strong interactions but is subject to the Pauli exclusion principle; no two leptons of the same species can be in exactly the same state at the same time.
universe: Alternatively, he may have proved heliocentricity by determining the constants of a geometric model for it, and by developing methods to compute planetary positions using this model, similar to Nicolaus Copernicus in the 16th century.
universe: Under the cosmological principle, which assumes that the universe is homogeneous and isotropic on large scales, the field equations admit a class of solutions described by the metric tensor known as the Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker metric.
universe: The resulting geometry governs the motion of matter, so that solutions of these equations describe how the universe evolves over time.
universe: Aristotle responded to these paradoxes by developing the notion of a potential countable infinity, as well as the infinitely divisible continuum.
universe: This is known as recombination for historical reasons; electrons and nuclei were combining for the first time.
universe: ISBN 978-0-7566-9841-6.
universe: Stars, planets, and visible gas clouds only form about 6% of this ordinary matter.
universe: (June 1987).
universe: Al-Sijzi also proposed that the Earth rotates on its axis.
universe: Archimedes wrote:
universe: 500 (1): 525–545.
universe: An intense period of expansion called cosmic inflation is postulated to explain many astronomical observations and set the initial conditions for the Lambda-CDM model.
universe: Within the first fraction of a second of the universe's existence, it was extremely dense, and the high energy meant all the particles of the Standard model were in equilibrium.
universe: There are dynamical forces acting on the particles in the universe which affect the expansion rate.
universe: This expansion is inferred from the observation that the light from distant galaxies has been redshifted, which implies that the galaxies are receding from us.
universe: The Standard Model does not, however, accommodate gravity.
universe: The interstellar medium far from stars but within a galaxy has density of a few protons per litre.
universe: The electron governs nearly all of chemistry, as it is found in atoms and is directly tied to all chemical properties.
universe: However, advances in experimental techniques have revealed other previously theoretical phases, such as Bose–Einstein condensates and fermionic condensates.
universe: The average density is about 1 proton per 200 litres.
universe: Max Tegmark and Brian Greene have proposed different classification schemes for multiverse ideas.
universe: As the universe cooled due to expansion, the state of the universe went through phase transitions analogous to water freezing.
universe: Though the original text has been lost, a reference in Archimedes' book The Sand Reckoner describes Aristarchus's heliocentric model.
universe: For who would place this lamp of a very beautiful temple in another or better place than this wherefrom it can illuminate everything at the same time?
universe: Course of theoretical physics.
universe: Newton believed that an infinite space uniformly filled with matter would cause infinite forces and instabilities causing the matter to be crushed inwards under its own gravity.
universe: In the center rests the Sun.
universe: This unseen matter is known as dark matter.
universe: There are however many differing beliefs in how these stories apply amongst those believing in a supernatural origin, ranging from a god directly creating the universe as it is now to a god just setting the "wheels in motion" (for example via mechanisms such as the big bang and evolution).
universe: A few minutes later, in a process known as Big Bang nucleosynthesis, nuclei formed from the primordial protons and neutrons.
universe: Cosmologists often work with space-like slices of spacetime that are surfaces of constant time in comoving coordinates.
universe: 450 BC), Heraclides Ponticus (c.
universe: Evidence accumulated supporting the Big Bang theory: an initial hot fireball cooled and becoming less dense as the universe expanded, allowing the first subatomic particles and simple atoms to form.
universe: Further observational improvements led to the realization that the Sun is one of a few hundred billion stars in the Milky Way, which is one of a few hundred billion galaxies in the observable universe.
universe: The universe is bathed in highly isotropic microwave radiation that corresponds to a thermal equilibrium blackbody spectrum of roughly 2.72548 kelvins.
universe: Most of the hadrons and anti-hadrons were then eliminated in particle–antiparticle annihilation reactions, leaving a small residual of hadrons by the time the universe was about one second old.
universe: ISBN 978-0-19-864214-5.
universe: The earliest written records of identifiable predecessors to modern astronomy come from Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia from around 3000 to 1200 BCE.
universe: In the 5th century AD, the Buddhist atomist philosopher Dignāga proposed atoms to be point-sized, durationless, and made of energy.
universe: According to this hypothesis, if any of several fundamental constants were only slightly different, the universe would have been unlikely to be conducive to the establishment and development of matter, astronomical structures, elemental diversity, or life as it is understood.
universe: Some boron may have been formed at this time, but the next heavier element, carbon, was not formed in significant amounts.
universe: For Aristotle, normal matter was entirely contained within the terrestrial sphere, and it obeyed fundamentally different rules from heavenly material.
universe: Two main classes of leptons exist: charged leptons (also known as the electron-like leptons), and neutral leptons (better known as neutrinos).
universe: Charged leptons can combine with other particles to form various composite particles such as atoms and positronium.
universe: In order to account for the known complications of the planets' motions, particularly retrograde movement, Eudoxus' model included 27 different celestial spheres: four for each of the planets visible to the naked eye, three each for the Sun and the Moon, and one for the stars.
universe: However, if the universe contained too little matter then it would expand too quickly for astronomical structures, like galaxies or planets, to form.
universe: As noted by Copernicus, the notion that the Earth rotates is very old, dating at least to Philolaus (c.
universe: Anaxagoras proposed the principle of Nous (Mind), while Heraclitus proposed fire (and spoke of logos).
universe: Today, ordinary matter, which includes atoms, stars, galaxies, and life, accounts for only 4.9% of the contents of the universe.
universe: The Christian philosopher, John Philoponus, presented the philosophical arguments against the ancient Greek notion of an infinite past and future.
universe: The highly redshifted photons from this period form the cosmic microwave background.
universe: Neutrinos rarely interact with anything, and are consequently rarely observed.
universe: The cosmological constant can be formulated to be equivalent to vacuum energy.
universe: Various types of elementary particles associated stably producing a plasma of electrons, protons, and neutrons, with very energetic photons preventing them from binding until about one minute after the Big Bang.
universe: Series in astronomy and astrophysics.
universe: In Tegmark's scheme multiverses might result from the immense size of the spacetime, from cosmological processes that produce spacetime bubbles, from quantum mechanical unitarity, or because we live in a mathematical construct.
universe: NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database (NED) / (NED-Distances).
universe: If space is infinite, or sufficiently large and uniform, identical instances of the history of Earth's entire Hubble volume occur every so often, simply by chance.
universe: However, over shorter length-scales, matter tends to clump hierarchically; many atoms are condensed into stars, most stars into galaxies, most galaxies into clusters, superclusters and, finally, large-scale galactic filaments.
universe: For example, the relative population of quasars and galaxies has changed and the universe has expanded.
universe: The physical universe is thus understood as an all-encompassing, immanent deity.
universe: Of the hadrons, protons are stable, and neutrons bound within atomic nuclei are stable.
universe: The distribution of matter throughout the universe is highly variable.
universe: These are called, respectively, the flat, open and closed universes.
universe: The term 'pantheist' designates one who holds both that everything constitutes a unity and that this unity is divine, consisting of an all-encompassing, manifested god or goddess.
universe: Ordinary matter and the forces that act on matter can be described in terms of elementary particles.
universe: Dark energy, which is the energy of empty space and is causing the expansion of the universe to accelerate, accounts for the remaining 68.3% of the contents.
universe: Oxford; New York: Pergamon Press.
universe: The more matter there is in the universe, the stronger the mutual gravitational pull of the matter.
universe: This is why we will never know everything about our universe – Forbes, May 2019.
universe: The observable universe is isotropic on scales significantly larger than superclusters, meaning that the statistical properties of the universe are the same in all directions as observed from Earth.
universe: A universe that is both homogeneous and isotropic looks the same from all vantage points and has no center.
universe: The photon epoch started after most leptons and anti-leptons were annihilated at the end of the lepton epoch, about 10 seconds after the Big Bang.
universe: For the remainder of the photon epoch the universe contained a hot dense plasma of nuclei, electrons and photons.
universe: In this description, the universe is characterized by two quantities: a scale factor, which describes how its overall size changes with time, and a curvature index, which specifies its spatial geometry.
universe: An explanation for why the expansion of the universe is accelerating remains elusive.
universe: A hadron is a composite particle made of quarks held together by the strong force.
universe: Ethnologists and anthropologists who study myths have developed various classification schemes for the various themes that appear in creation stories.
universe: Rees, Martin J.; DK Publishing, Inc; Smithsonian Institution, eds.
universe: The universe contains a mysterious energy—possibly a scalar field—called dark energy, the density of which does not change over time.
universe: The cause of this observed baryon asymmetry is not known.
universe: All of these spheres were centered on the Earth, which remained motionless while they rotated eternally.
universe: Because of its success in explaining a wide variety of experimental results, the Standard Model is sometimes regarded as a "theory of almost everything".
universe: At the largest scale, galaxies are distributed uniformly and the same in all directions.
universe: Subsequent formation of heavier elements resulted from stellar nucleosynthesis and supernova nucleosynthesis.
universe: A Greek-English lexicon.
universe: Air will immediately rush in to fill a void, and moreover, without resistance, it would do so indefinitely fast.
universe: Ancient Chinese philosophy encompassed the notion of the universe including both all of space and all of time.
universe: The same synonyms are found in English, such as everything (as in the theory of everything), the cosmos (as in cosmology), the world (as in the many-worlds interpretation), and nature (as in natural laws or natural philosophy).
universe: However, in the present dark-energy era, it dominates the mass–energy of the universe because it is uniform across space.
universe: The Newtonian theory of gravity is a good approximation to the predictions of general relativity when gravitational effects are weak and objects are moving slowly compared to the speed of light.
universe: Vast volumes of the universe are voids of exceptionally low density.
universe: After about 9.8 billion years, the universe had expanded sufficiently so that the density of matter was less than the density of dark energy, marking the beginning of the present dark-energy-dominated era.
universe: During the Middle Ages, heliocentric models were also proposed by the Persian astronomers Albumasar and Al-Sijzi.
universe: The fine-tuned universe hypothesis is the proposition that the conditions that allow the existence of observable life in the universe can only occur when certain universal fundamental physical constants lie within a very narrow range of values.
universe: This model was also refined by Callippus and after concentric spheres were abandoned, it was brought into nearly perfect agreement with astronomical observations by Ptolemy.
universe: It is often attributed to the gravitational influence of "dark energy", an unknown form of energy that is hypothesized to permeate space.
universe: Edmund Halley (1720) and Jean-Philippe de Chéseaux (1744) noted independently that the assumption of an infinite space filled uniformly with stars would lead to the prediction that the nighttime sky would be as bright as the Sun itself; this became known as Olbers' paradox in the 19th century.
universe: The square root of the absolute value of this quantity is called the interval between the two events.
universe: Essential relativity: special, general, and cosmological.
universe: All elementary particles are described by quantum mechanics and exhibit wave–particle duality: their behavior has both particle-like and wave-like aspects manifest under different circumstances.
universe: 2 (4th rev.
universe: At smaller scales, galaxies are distributed in clusters and superclusters, which form immense filaments and voids in space, creating a vast foam-like structure.
universe: Analyses of Type Ia supernovae indicate that the expansion is accelerating.
universe: The mass–energy density of the universe is 68% dark energy, 27% dark matter, and 5% ordinary matter.
universe: Ordinary matter is composed of two types of elementary particles: quarks and leptons.
universe: Gravitation (27.
universe: A remark by John Archibald Wheeler that has become proverbial among physicists summarizes the theory: "Spacetime tells matter how to move; matter tells spacetime how to curve", and therefore there is no point in considering one without the other.
universe: Newton demonstrated that the same laws of motion and gravity apply to earthly and to celestial matter, making Aristotle's division between the two obsolete.
universe: A photon is the quantum of light and all other forms of electromagnetic radiation.
universe: Whether this is true, and whether that question is even logically meaningful to ask, are subjects of much debate.
universe: In most contemporary models they are thought of as points in space.
universe: After around 100–300 million years, the first stars formed, known as Population III stars.
universe: The entire collection of these separate spacetimes is denoted as the multiverse.
universe: Much of very earliest time is not understood.
universe: It extends special relativity and Newton's law of universal gravitation by describing gravity as a manifestation of the curvature of space and time (spacetime).
universe: No other nuclei formed in significant amounts during this time.
universe: The relation between matter distribution and spacetime curvature is given by the Einstein field equations, which require tensor calculus to express.
universe: The discoveries of this era, and the questions that remain unanswered, are outlined in the sections above.
