variety_show: Some noontime shows also feature public service elements, usually via segments featuring remote broadcasts from different barangays.
variety_show: It is normally introduced by a compère (master of ceremonies) or host.
variety_show: In the United States former vaudeville performers such as the Marx Brothers, George Burns and Gracie Allen, W.
variety_show: and It's Showtime, and South Korea with Running Man, the proliferation of multichannel television and evolving viewer tastes have affected the popularity of variety shows in the United States.
variety_show: The popularity of these Christmas shows outlasted that of weekly variety shows.
variety_show: East Asian variety programs are known for their constant use of sound effects, on-screen visuals and comedic bantering.
variety_show: It combined comedy and variety scenes including unscripted stunts and special guest stars while taking place in various settings.
variety_show: Sábado Gigante) began in 1962 with Don Francisco and lasted into the 1990s.
variety_show: A pilot episode for Rosie Live was telecast the day before Thanksgiving Day in 2008 and, after receiving middling ratings and extremely poor reviews, was not picked up for its originally planned run in January 2009.
variety_show: Variety programming has remained one of the dominant genres of television programming.
variety_show: 1969 saw a flurry of new variety shows with rural appeal: The Johnny Cash Show (1969–1971), The Jim Nabors Hour (1969–1971), The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour (1969–1972) and Hee Haw (1969–1992).
variety_show: was embroiled in a conflict between its producers TAPE Inc.
variety_show: Fox's Osbournes Reloaded, a variety show featuring the family of rocker Ozzy Osbourne, was canceled after only one episode had been telecast in 2009.
variety_show: One of the most popular variety shows in Japan includes Downtown no Gaki no Tsukai.
variety_show: Most of the early top performers on British television and radio did an apprenticeship either in stage variety, or during World War II in Entertainments National Service Association (ENSA).
variety_show: In the mid-2000s, ABS-CBN's Wowowee would become another prominent competitor to Eat Bulaga.
variety_show: Christmas variety specials' popularity continued into the 1990s, before starting to wane in the 2000s.
variety_show: In Hong Kong, variety shows are often combined with elements of a cooking show or a talent competition but end in various results.
variety_show: At least one national variety show continued on national radio into the 21st century.
variety_show: Williams's and Johnny Cash's annual Christmas specials outlasted the regularly scheduled variety shows that spawned them by several years.
variety_show: Live from Here, which moved to New York City in 2019, was cancelled due to budget cuts in 2020.
variety_show: The premise was a large dance party hosted by Kathryn Murray and Arthur Murray that showcased a new dance and a celebrity guest along with dozens of professional dancers.
variety_show: As a result, other broadcasting channels such as KBS and SBS have followed its path and introduced programs such as 2 Days & 1 Night and Running Man.
variety_show: moved to ABS-CBN in 1989.
variety_show: Like Rosie Live, the broadcast was intended to be a one-off special, but with the possibility of additional episodes depending on its performance.
variety_show: The disputes culminated with a lawsuit by the hosts over the rights to their contributions, including the Eat Bulaga!
variety_show: The program was billed as a spiritual continuation of Eat Bulaga!
variety_show: The Danny Kaye Show returned to television in 2017 with reruns on Jewish Life Television (and, in the case of a one-off Christmas special, the Christian-leaning network INSP); JLTV dropped Kaye from its schedule at the end of 2018.
variety_show: Little Blue Light (Goluboy Ogonyok), which debuted in 1962, became a New Year's Eve tradition, blending music, comedy sketches, and celebrity interviews in a convivial atmosphere that connected audiences with popular Soviet stars.
variety_show: In the 1940s, Stan Laurel revisited his music hall days when he performed at the Royal Variety show.
variety_show: By the late 1970s nearly every TV  variety show had ended production.
variety_show: In 2023, Eat Bulaga!
variety_show: Meanwhile, Pesnya Goda (Song of the Year), launched in 1971, became an annual celebration of the year's top songs and performers, evolving into a prestigious platform that mirrored shifts in Russian music and society.
variety_show: In 1979, RPN premiered Eat Bulaga!, which would eclipse it in popularity, and later go on to become the longest-running variety show on Filipino television.
variety_show: NBC has made repeated attempts at reviving the variety format since the late 2000s (the network's last successful variety series, Michael Nesmith's short-lived but influential Television Parts, was broadcast in the summer of 1985) .
variety_show: (1972–1974), Numéro Un (1975–1982) and a lot of television specials presented by various famous singers (Johnny Hallyday, Sylvie Vartan, Claude François, Petula Clark).
variety_show: (and its successor Up Late NW), MADtv, and SCTV also contain variety show elements, particularly musical performances and comedy sketches.
variety_show: From 1948 to 1971 The Ed Sullivan Show was one of CBS's most popular television series.
variety_show: Two of the longest-running and most popular series were Morecambe and Wise and The Two Ronnies.
variety_show: Many variety shows, including long-running ones, were canceled as part of this "purge," with a few shows (such as Hee Haw and The Lawrence Welk Show) surviving and moving into first-run syndication.
variety_show: The current rights holder of Hee Haw, RFD-TV, has been more consistent broadcasting complete episodes of the program; RFD-TV also airs numerous other country-style variety shows from the 1960s and 1970s up through the present day, in a rarity for modern television.
variety_show: The Spanish language variety show Sabado Gigante, which began in 1962, and then moved from Chile to the United States in 1986, continued to produce and broadcast new episodes on Univision until its cancellation in September 2015.
variety_show: The live entertainment style known as music hall in the United Kingdom and vaudeville in the United States can be considered a direct predecessor of the "variety show" format.
variety_show: Improvisational comic Wayne Brady, coming off his successful appearances on the panel game Whose Line Is It Anyway?, launched an eponymous variety show in 2001, which aired on ABC.
variety_show: in July 2023.
variety_show: Amid the sequestration of RPN by the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG) following the People Power Revolution, Eat Bulaga!
variety_show: and original hosts Tito Sotto, Vic Sotto, and Joey de Leon, over the direction of the show.
variety_show: Nevertheless, the tradition has continued.
variety_show: (For a brief time in the late 1980s, the show was replaced with The American Radio Company of the Air, also hosted and created by Keillor, was set in a more urban environment and likewise was based on old-time radio; its short run eventually morphed into a revival of A Prairie Home Companion).
variety_show: Although many variety shows have existed in Korea long before the broadcast of Infinite Challenge, this program has given a rise to a new page in the history of Korean variety shows by introducing unscripted stunts.
variety_show: Variety shows were a staple of English language television from the late 1940s into the 1980s.
variety_show: Starting in the 1950s, some entertainers became associated with variety television specials that would recur on a regular basis, in some cases for decades, on American network TV.
variety_show: More than two dozen affiliates refused to telecast the first episode of the show.
variety_show: The Lawrence Welk Show (1955–1982) would go on to become one of U.S.
variety_show: Variety shows centered on running comedy sketches with recurring characters eventually evolved into sitcoms (situation comedies).
variety_show: A Prairie Home Companion was founded and created by Garrison Keillor in 1974 as an homage to rural radio variety shows, featuring sketch comedy based on radio dramas of the old-time radio era, complete with faux commercials.
variety_show: The genre proliferated during the Golden Age of Television, generally considered to be roughly 1948 to 1960.
variety_show: Variety shows hosted by Helen Haynes and Harriet Lee are recorded in contemporary newspapers in 1931 and 1932; because of technical limits of the era, no recordings of either show have been preserved.
variety_show: It was famous for its bantering, which was scripted.
variety_show: Of all of these, only Saturday Night Live remains on the air today, and has become the second-longest-running variety show in the history of American television.
variety_show: Paul Lynde hosted a string of irregularly scheduled Comedy Hours through the late 1970s.
variety_show: The most obvious difference between shows such as Saturday Night Live and traditional variety shows is the lack of a single lead host (or hosts) and a large ensemble cast.
variety_show: ran in parallel with Eat Bulaga on GMA Network, which had continued on with a new cast.
variety_show: Fields, and Jack Benny honed their skills in the Borscht Belt before moving to talkies, to radio shows, and then to television shows, including variety shows.
variety_show: In May 2014, NBC aired The Maya Rudolph Show, a variety show starring SNL performer Maya Rudolph.
variety_show: Many of these Golden Age variety shows were spin-offs or adaptations of previous radio variety shows.
variety_show: Other long-running British variety shows that originated in the 1950s include Tonight at the London Palladium (1955–1969), The Black and White Minstrel Show (1958–1978), The White Heather Club (1958–1968) and Royal Variety Performance (an annual event televised since the 1950s).
variety_show: outright, the show made a high-profile move to GMA Network (where Student Canteen successor Lunch Date had been neck-and-neck with it in viewership).
variety_show: Radio variety shows were the predominant form of light entertainment during the Golden Age of Radio from the late 1920s through the 1940s; such radio shows typically included a house vocalist, music from the house band, a stand-up monologue and a short comedy sketch.
variety_show: Another notable exception is The Lawrence Welk Show, which has been frequently broadcast in reruns on the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) since 1986.
variety_show: Similarly, CMT held the rights to Hee Haw but broadcast very few episodes, opting mainly to hold the rights to allow them to create performance videos from the episodes to be shown in its video blocks.
variety_show: By 1980 viewer interest in TV variety shows was rapidly waning.
variety_show: television's longest-running variety shows; based on the concept of the big band remote from the old-time radio era, it was already one of the last shows of its kind when it debuted and far outlasted all other big-band centered broadcast series by the end of its run.
variety_show: From 1965 to 1970 was also aired Dim Dam Dom, a modern, playful and sophisticated show intended for a female audience and produced by Elle chief editor Daisy de Galard.
variety_show: During Johnny Carson's tenure on The Tonight Show on NBC from 1962 to 1992, the show dominated late night ratings, and the other networks attempted late-night talk shows only sporadically.
variety_show: In 2007, a technical error during its jackpot game segment resulted in allegations that it had been rigged, as well as a public conflict between Eat Bulaga co-host Joey de Leon and Wowowee host Willie Revillame.
variety_show: "The Arthur Murray Party" (1950–1960) was wildly popular and one of only 5 shows in the history of television to appear on all four major networks at the same time.
variety_show: The Wayne Brady Show lasted only one summer season in its variety format; when the show returned the next year in syndication, it had been reformatted as a talk show, under which format it ran until 2004.
variety_show: and featured many of its former cast members.
variety_show: 'auditorium show').
variety_show: In the UK, the ultimate accolade for a variety artist for decades was to be asked to do the annual Royal Command Performance at the London Palladium theatre, in front of the monarch.
variety_show: Audiences were clearly tiring of the format; the highest-rated variety show of 1975, Cher, was only the 22nd-most watched show of the year.
variety_show: A brief revival of the genre arose in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
variety_show: Variety in the UK evolved in theatres and music halls, and later in working men's clubs.
variety_show: Entertainers with less successful variety shows in the 1960s include Judy Garland and Sammy Davis Jr.
variety_show: In 1970 and 1971, the American TV networks, CBS especially, conducted the so-called "rural purge", in which shows that appealed to more rural and older audiences were canceled as part of a greater focus on appealing to wealthier demographics.
variety_show: Perry Como also hosted a series of variety shows that collectively ran from 1948 to 1969, followed by variety specials that ran until 1994.
variety_show: The Carol Burnett Show remained successful.
variety_show: Shorter-lived variety shows during this period include The Frank Sinatra Show (1950–1952), The Jimmy Durante Show (1954–1956) and a different The Frank Sinatra Show (1957–1958).
variety_show: The trio established a new production company known as TVJ Productions with the backing of rival network TV5, and premiered E.A.T...
variety_show: This series had been slated for a six-episode run.
variety_show: While Japanese variety shows are famous abroad for their wild stunts, they vary from talk shows to music shows, from tabloid news shows to skit comedy.
variety_show: Around the same time, Wider Circle (Shire Krug) expanded the format to emphasize cultural diversity, featuring folk performances, community events, and discussions of national achievements to promote unity.
variety_show: His daughter, Vivianne Kreutzberger, currently hosts the program under the title Gigantes con Vivi, while Don Francisco has hosted the U.S.
variety_show: Variety show, also known as variety arts or variety entertainment, is entertainment made up of a variety of acts including musical performances, sketch comedy, magic, acrobatics, juggling, and ventriloquism.
variety_show: SNL has used different guest hosts ever since its inception.
variety_show: Recent prime time variety shows include the short lived Micallef Tonight and The Sideshow.
variety_show: In South Korea, the hugely popular show Infinite Challenge, has been broadcast by MBC from 2005 to 2018, was a new model of this, called "Real Variety Show".
variety_show: Student Canteen—which began on radio and moved to television in 1958 on the Chronicle Broadcasting Network (CBN)—has traditionally been considered the earliest entry in the genre.
variety_show: The series would face multiple controversies over its run: in 2006, a crowd crush before its first anniversary special at the PhilSports Stadium killed 73 people and injured 400 others.
variety_show: Also, Barbara Mandrell Christmas special.
variety_show: While the format is still widespread in some parts of the world, such as in the United Kingdom with the Royal Variety Performance, the Philippines with Eat Bulaga!
variety_show: By the 1990s, networks had given up on the format; after initially promising Phil Hartman his own variety show, NBC backed out of the agreement believing a variety show could no longer succeed.
variety_show: After World War II, the genre again was an early favorite of the burgeoning electronic television industry; Hour Glass, dating to 1946, is the earliest surviving variety show, preserved in the form of audio recordings and still photographs.
variety_show: title itself.
variety_show: version since 12 April 1986 until the end of the show's run on 19 September 2015.
variety_show: Later known as the Royal Variety Performance (from 1919), it continues today.
variety_show: The Carol Burnett Show, which had aired in severely edited form sporadically in syndication since it ended in 1977, returned intact in 2019 on numerous platforms.
variety_show: By the 21st century the variety show format was practically extinct, due largely to changing tastes and the fracturing of media audiences (caused by the proliferation of cable and satellite television) that makes a multiple-genre variety show impractical.
variety_show: These types of Korean variety shows are grabbing foreign interest of countries such as Japan, China, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, and even the United States and Philippines bringing on a new type of the Korean wave globally.
variety_show: Likewise, only a handful of long-established local telethons remain.
variety_show: In the UK The Good Old Days—which ran from 1953 to 1983—featured modern artists performing dressed in late Victorian/Early Edwardian costume, either doing their own act or performing as a music hall artist of that period.
variety_show: In 1994, after its producers resisted demands by ABS-CBN to purchase the rights to Eat Bulaga!
variety_show: The show also hosted the only television appearance of Buddy Holly and The Crickets.
variety_show: Many of these were Christmas variety specials, which often showed the star in a set meant to look like their home, welcoming singers and other guests to perform duets of Christmas songs.
variety_show: name and prohibiting its use by TAPE.
variety_show: Night-time variety shows eventually evolved into late-night talk shows, which combine variety entertainment (primarily comedy and live music) with the aspects of a talk show (such as interviews with celebrities).
variety_show: television history.
variety_show: Digital multicast network getTV shows variety shows on an irregular basis.
variety_show: Most, if not all, of Televisa's variety shows have aired in other countries, including the Univision networks in the United States.
variety_show: The prominent use of telop on screen has created a style that has influenced variety programming across Asia.
variety_show: The audience was also encouraged to dress in period costume in a similar fashion.
variety_show: In 1990, "Súper" was added to the title, and is how the show is currently known today.
variety_show: Each episode of Dim Dam Dom was hosted in an all-white studio set by a different speakerine (a female continuity announcer), usually a popular actress or singer like Françoise Hardy, Marie Laforêt, Geraldine Chaplin, France Gall, Jane Birkin, Françoise Fabian, Romy Schneider.
variety_show: This changed with Carson's retirement, and other networks began to air their own talk show competitors, starting with Late Show with David Letterman on CBS in 1993.
variety_show: Entertainers with variety-based TV specials in the 70s include Carpenters, John Denver, Shirley MacLaine, Diana Ross, Bob Hope, and Pat Boone.
variety_show: In 2016, following Keillor's retirement, Chris Thile took over the program and, over the course of the next year, transformed it into Live from Here, a more streamlined musical variety series.
variety_show: Despite this, their influence has still had a major effect on late night television whose late-night talk shows and NBC's variety series Saturday Night Live (which originally premiered in 1975) have remained popular fixtures of American television.
variety_show: Variety shows continued to be produced in the 1970s, with most of them stripped down to only music and comedy.
variety_show: Many of the shows are presented in a live-like presentation in a fast-paced setting, with scenes repeating or fast forwarded.
variety_show: In January 2024, the Marikina Regional Trial Court ruled in favour of TVJ, thus allowing them to reacquire the rights to the Eat Bulaga!
variety_show: The American Variety Stage: Vaudeville and Popular Entertainment digitized items from the Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library of Congress
variety_show: Originally established in 1968 (as Sábado Espectacular) on Radio Caracas Television, the show moved to Venevision in 1970 and was renamed Sábado Sensacional.
variety_show: Earlier that season, NBC aired Best Time Ever, an adaptation of the British variety game show Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway starring actor Neil Patrick Harris which was ultimately unsuccessful.
variety_show: Having carried over from an already 20-year run on radio, the series airs a program of religious music, messages, and occasional interviews, and remains the longest-running variety show in U.S.
variety_show: Another popular variety show in Taiwan was Kangsi Coming (2004–2016).
variety_show: The variety format made its way from the Victorian era stage in Britain and America to radio and then television.
variety_show: Using his no-nonsense approach, host Ed Sullivan was instrumental in bringing many acts to prominence in the United States, including Elvis Presley and The Beatles.
variety_show: Entertainers who have hosted Christmas variety specials in the 21st century include Kid Rock, Nick Lachey and Jessica Simpson, Carrie Underwood, Lady Gaga, Michael Buble, Bill Murray, Gwen Stefani, and Darci Lynne.
variety_show: The special won its time slot, due mainly to a strong lead-in, and spawned the May 2016 premiere of Maya & Marty, adding fellow SNL cast member Martin Short; under that format, Maya & Marty lasted six episodes.
variety_show: British performers who honed their skills in music hall sketches include Charlie Chaplin, Stan Laurel, George Formby, Gracie Fields, Dan Leno, Gertrude Lawrence, and Marie Lloyd.
variety_show: was subsequently retitled Eat...
variety_show: Another popular telethon, for United Cerebral Palsy, ended its run in 1998 shortly after the death of its founder and figurehead, Dennis James.
variety_show: Other long-running variety shows, most of which have been Televisa productions, have included La Carabina de Ambrosio, Anabel, Al Fin de Semana, Silvia y Enrique, La Parodia, Muevete, Desmadruga2, and Sabadazo..
variety_show: Such entertainers included Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, Perry Como, Andy Williams and Mitzi Gaynor.
variety_show: In 1973, for example, even as variety shows were starting to fade in popularity, variety Christmas specials hosted by Williams and Como both attracted an enormous 40% of the American television audience.
variety_show: It became Mexico's longest-running variety series, remaining on Televisa until 1998.
variety_show: One year after Sullivan's premiere, Music & the Spoken Word first aired on television.
variety_show: Most of the few new variety programs being produced were of remarkably poor quality (for instance, the infamous Pink Lady and Jeff), hastening the format's demise, though a few moderately successful shows remained, such as  Barbara Mandrell & the Mandrell Sisters (November 1980 to June 1982).
