vietnam: In 2018, the construction ministry said the country's water supply and drainage industry had been applying hi-tech methods and information technology (IT) to sanitation issues but faced problems like limited funding, climate change, and pollution.
vietnam: Since reunification, the country's economy is shaped primarily by the CPV through Five-Year Plans decided upon at the plenary sessions of the Central Committee and national congresses.
vietnam: Between the 11th and 18th centuries, the Vietnamese polity expanded southward in a gradual process known as Nam tiến ("Southward expansion"), eventually conquering the kingdom of Champa and part of the Khmer Kingdom.
vietnam: Most industrial factories release their untreated wastewater directly into the water sources.
vietnam: Bolero music has gained popularity in the country since the 1930s, albeit with a different style—a combination of traditional Vietnamese music with Western elements.
vietnam: Ho Chi Minh City has received a large number of migrants due mainly to better weather and economic opportunities.
vietnam: After they had settled in Macau and Nagasaki to begin the profitable Macau–Japan trade route, the Portuguese began to involve themselves in trade with Hội An.
vietnam: However, there are still about 21 million people in the country lacking access to "improved" sanitation according to a survey conducted in 2015.
vietnam: The cave is over 8.8 km (5.5 mi) in length, and some of its caverns are large enough to hold a 40-story skyscraper.
vietnam: Through collaboration between the NGOs and local authorities, many local poaching syndicates were crippled by their leaders' arrests.
vietnam: Basic education in the country is relatively free for the poor, although some families may still have trouble paying tuition fees for their children without some form of public or private assistance.
vietnam: Nevertheless, there are several Chinatowns in the south, such as in Chợ Lớn, where many ethnic Chinese have intermarried with Kinh and are no longer distinguishable from them.
vietnam: While Vietnam's reforms catalysed rapid industrial and export growth, they also widened income and gender disparities.
vietnam: China later launched a brief incursion into northern Vietnam in 1979, causing Vietnam to rely even more heavily on Soviet economic and military aid, while mistrust of the Chinese government escalated.
vietnam: Mahāyāna is the dominant branch of Buddhism, while Theravada is practised mostly by the Khmer minority.
vietnam: Besides the primary sector economy, tourism has contributed significantly to Vietnam's economic growth with 7.94 million foreign visitors recorded in 2015.
vietnam: The Nguyễn—the last imperial dynasty—surrendered to France in 1883.
vietnam: Some poetic unions have also been formed in Vietnam, such as the tao đàn.
vietnam: These policies have included egalitarian land distribution during the initial stages of the Đổi Mới programme, investment in poorer remote areas, and subsidising of education and healthcare.
vietnam: Since the reunification of Vietnam in 1976, it has competed as the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, attending every Summer Olympics from 1988 onwards.
vietnam: In 2018, a decree on university autonomy allowing them to operate independently without ministerial control was in its final stages of approval.
vietnam: Surviving nationalist partisans and politico-religious groups rallied behind the exiled Bảo Đại to reopen negotiations with France, ultimately signing the Élysée Accords and establishing the State of Vietnam in opposition to communist domination.
vietnam: In 2010, Vietnam's road system had a total length of about 188,744 kilometres (117,280 mi) of which 93,535 kilometres (58,120 mi) are asphalt roads comprising national, provincial and district roads.
vietnam: By the 17th and 18th centuries AD, educated Vietnamese apparently referred to themselves as người Việt (Viet people) or người Nam (southern people).
vietnam: In agricultural genetic diversity, Vietnam is one of the world's twelve original cultivar centres.
vietnam: For instance, it led to three million Vietnamese people suffering health problems, one million birth defects caused directly by exposure to the chemical, and 24% of Vietnam's land being defoliated.
vietnam: The official statistics, presented by the Vietnamese government to the United Nations special rapporteur in 2014, indicate the overall number of followers of recognised religions is about 24 million of a total population of almost 90 million.
vietnam: The United States ended its economic embargo against Vietnam in early 1994.
vietnam: Since 1995, enrolment in higher education has grown tenfold to over 2.2 million with 84,000 lecturers and 419 institutions of higher education.
vietnam: After the Mạc dynasty was defeated, the Lê dynasty was nominally reinstalled.
vietnam: There is also concern over the safety of existing water resources for urban and rural water supply systems.
vietnam: The country declares itself a friend and partner of all countries in the international community, regardless of their political affiliation, by actively taking part in international and regional cooperative development projects.
vietnam: In 1887, its territory was integrated into French Indochina as three separate regions.
vietnam: Meanwhile, in 1613, the first English attempt to establish contact with Hội An failed following a violent incident involving the East India Company.
vietnam: In 2015, the reserve was approximately 4.4 billion barrels, ranking Vietnam in first place in Southeast Asia, while the proven gas reserves were about 0.6 trillion cubic metres (tcm) and ranking it third in Southeast Asia after Indonesia and Malaysia.
vietnam: Vietnam has also suffered from human trafficking and related issues.
vietnam: The resulting lockdown is widely referred to as the "Bamboo Firewall".
vietnam: Myths consist of stories about supernatural beings, heroes, and creator gods, and reflect the viewpoint of ancient people about human life.
vietnam: Regardless, Vietnam's school enrolment is among the highest in the world.
vietnam: Traditional headwear includes the standard conical nón lá, the "lampshade-like" nón quai thao, and the traditional turban, khăn vấn.
vietnam: It is criss-crossed by a maze of rivers and canals, which carry so much sediment that the delta advances 60 to 80 metres (196.9 to 262.5 ft) into the South China Sea every year.
vietnam: This decline can be attributed to equitable economic policies aimed at improving living standards and preventing the rise of inequality.
vietnam: The country was usually called Annam until 1945, when the imperial government in Huế adopted Việt Nam.
vietnam: It is part of international and intergovernmental institutions, including the ASEAN, the APEC, the Non-Aligned Movement, the OIF, and the WTO.
vietnam: Vietnam's foreign policy is now focused on balancing its ties with China and with the United States due to its close relationships with both countries.
vietnam: Homo erectus fossils dating to around 500,000 BC have been found in caves in Lạng Sơn and Nghệ An provinces in northern Vietnam.
vietnam: French missionaries (from the Paris Foreign Missions Society) and Spanish missionaries (from the Dominican Order) engaged in missionary work in the 18th, 19th, and first half of the 20th century.
vietnam: It has increased its ranking considerably since 2012, when it was ranked 76th.
vietnam: Vietnam was ranked 44th in the Global Innovation Index in 2025.
vietnam: The actual number of HIV-positive individuals is estimated to be much higher.
vietnam: By the following year, Vietnam had diagnosed 101,291 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) cases, of which 16,528 progressed to acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS); 9,554 had died.
vietnam: In recent years, there have been some efforts and collaboration between local and foreign universities to develop access to safe water in the country by introducing water filtration systems.
vietnam: Following the partition of Vietnam in 1954, North Vietnam maintained relations with the Eastern Bloc, while South Vietnam maintained relations with the Western Bloc.
vietnam: One of Vietnam's main messaging apps, Zalo, was developed by Vương Quang Khải, a Vietnamese hacker who later worked with the country's largest information technology service company, the FPT Group.
vietnam: Other human rights issues concern freedom of association, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and freedom of the press.
vietnam: There is a growing concern among local populations over the serious public health issues associated with water contamination caused by pollution as well as the high levels of arsenic in groundwater sources.
vietnam: About 8 to 9% of the population is Christian, made up of Catholics and Protestants.
vietnam: By about 1,000 BC, the development of wet-rice cultivation in the Ma River and Red River floodplains led to the flourishing of Đông Sơn culture, notable for its bronze casting used to make elaborate bronze Đông Sơn drums.
vietnam: Based on the 2019 census, 65.6% of the Vietnamese population lives in rural areas while only 34.4% live in urban areas.
vietnam: A subterranean river also flows within the cave.
vietnam: The country is also affected by tropical depressions, tropical storms and typhoons.
vietnam: Many notable Vietnamese dishes such as gỏi cuốn (salad roll), bánh cuốn (rice noodle roll), bún riêu (rice vermicelli soup) and phở noodles originated in the north and were introduced to central and southern Vietnam by northern migrants.
vietnam: It was extensively expanded and modernised following the partition of Vietnam.
vietnam: Vietnam's land is mostly hilly and densely forested, with level land covering no more than 20%.
vietnam: As the majority ethnic group, the Kinh possess significant political and economic influence over the country.
vietnam: 1200 BC), and later as "越".
vietnam: The malaria mortality rate fell to about five per cent of its 1990s equivalent by 2005 after the country introduced improved antimalarial drugs and treatment.
vietnam: It is generally perceived that the country's media sector is controlled by the government and follows the official communist party line, though some newspapers are relatively outspoken.
vietnam: The Viet Minh sought to consolidate power by terrorizing and purging rival Vietnamese nationalist groups and Trotskyist leaders.
vietnam: Confucianism as a system of social and ethical philosophy still has certain influences in modern Vietnam.
vietnam: Although it is one of the country's minority religions, Protestantism is the fastest-growing religion in Vietnam.
vietnam: Between the 7th and 4th centuries BC, 'Yue'/'Việt' referred to the State of Yue in the lower Yangtze basin and its people.
vietnam: Throughout its history, Vietnam has been the most heavily impacted by the Chinese musical tradition along with those of Japan, Korea and Mongolia.
vietnam: Some literary genres play an important role in theatrical performance, such as hát nói in ca trù.
vietnam: By the 960s, the dynastic Đại Việt (Great Viet) kingdom was established, and Vietnamese society enjoyed a golden era under the Lý and Trần dynasties.
vietnam: Vietnam's year-on-year inflation rate reached 11.8% in December 2010, and the currency, the Vietnamese đồng, was devalued three times.
vietnam: Protestantism was spread by Canadian and American missionaries in the 20th century; the largest Protestant denomination is the Evangelical Church of Vietnam.
vietnam: In recent years, 13 genera, 222 species, and 30 taxa of flora have been newly described in Vietnam.
vietnam: Instead freshwater fish, crustaceans (particularly crabs), and molluscs became widely used.
vietnam: A Western-style system of modern education introduced new humanist values.
vietnam: Comprising five relatively flat plateaus of basalt soil, the highlands account for 16% of the country's arable land and 22% of its total forested land.
vietnam: Six new mammal species, including the saola, giant muntjac, and Tonkin snub-nosed monkey have also been discovered, along with one new bird species, the endangered Edwards's pheasant.
vietnam: The VNPT retained its monopoly until 1986.
vietnam: Nguyễn Ánh unified Vietnam, and established the Nguyễn dynasty, ruling under the name Gia Long.
vietnam: Under strict state control, Vietnam's economy continued to be plagued by inefficiency, corruption in state-owned enterprises, poor quality, and underproduction.
vietnam: Vietnamese folk literature is an intermingling of many forms.
vietnam: Areas comprising what is now Vietnam participated in the Maritime Jade Road, as ascertained by archaeological research.
vietnam: In a series of conquests from 1859 to 1885, France eroded Vietnam's sovereignty.
vietnam: The amount of solid waste generated in urban areas of Vietnam has increased by more than 200% from 2003 to 2008.
vietnam: That summer, the Viet Minh, in collaboration with French forces, eliminated rival nationalist parties.
vietnam: Throughout Vietnam's history, many Chinese people, largely from South China, migrated to the country as administrators, merchants, and even refugees.
vietnam: For the next thousand years, what is now northern Vietnam remained mostly under Chinese rule.
vietnam: Early independence movements, such as those of the Trưng Sisters and Lady Triệu, were temporarily successful, though the region gained a longer period of independence as Vạn Xuân under the Anterior Lý dynasty between AD 544 and 602.
vietnam: Following the Paris Peace Accords of 27 January 1973, all American combat troops were withdrawn by 29 March 1973.
vietnam: Most of their population is concentrated in the country's alluvial deltas and coastal plains.
vietnam: The Vietnamese government spends over VNĐ10 trillion each year ($431.1 million) for monthly allowances and the physical rehabilitation of victims of the chemicals.
vietnam: Throughout its history, Vietnam's main foreign relationship has been with various Chinese dynasties.
vietnam: One of two communist states in Southeast Asia, Vietnam is bordered by China to the north, and Laos and Cambodia to the west; it lies along the Gulf of Thailand to the southwest and the South China Sea to the east, where it has shared and disputed maritime borders with other countries.
vietnam: It already had relations with communist Western countries in the decades prior.
vietnam: The controversial use of herbicides as a chemical weapon by the US military during the war left tangible, long-term impacts upon the Vietnamese people that persist in the country today.
vietnam: Vietnam's energy sector is dominated largely by the state-controlled Vietnam Electricity Group (EVN).
vietnam: Though urbanisation has many benefits, it has some drawbacks since it creates more traffic, and air and water pollution.
vietnam: Any country with higher urbanisation rates has a higher GDP growth rate.
vietnam: The Dutch also tried to establish contact with Cochinchina in 1601 but failed to sustain a presence there after several violent encounters with the locals.
vietnam: Manufacturing, information technology and high-tech industries now form a large and fast-growing part of the national economy.
vietnam: Since the early 2000s, Vietnam has applied sequenced trade liberalisation, a two-track approach opening some sectors of the economy to international markets.
vietnam: Actual power, however, was divided between the northern Trịnh lords and the southern Nguyễn lords, who engaged in a civil war for more than four decades before a truce was called in the 1670s.
vietnam: However, their rule did not last long, and they were defeated by the remnants of the Nguyễn lords, led by Nguyễn Ánh.
vietnam: As a result of the accords signed between the Viet Minh and France, Vietnam was also separated into two parts.
vietnam: In 257 BC, the last Hùng king was defeated by Thục Phán.
vietnam: The main environmental concern that persists in Vietnam today is the legacy of the use of the chemical herbicide Agent Orange, which continues to cause birth defects and many health problems in the Vietnamese population.
vietnam: TB has become the second most infectious disease in the country after respiratory-related illness.
vietnam: With an intensified vaccination programme, better hygiene, and foreign assistance, Vietnam hopes to reduce sharply the number of TB cases and new TB infections.
vietnam: In the modern era, the cultural life of Vietnam has been deeply influenced by government-controlled media and cultural programmes.
vietnam: He consolidated the Lạc Việt and Âu Việt tribes, who came from southern China, to form the Âu Lạc, proclaiming himself An Dương Vương.
vietnam: Following the 2025 administrative reform, Vietnam is divided into 28 provinces (Vietnamese: tỉnh) and 6 municipalities (Vietnamese: thành phố trực thuộc trung ương), which are administratively on the same level as provinces.
vietnam: The origins of Vietnamese classical opera (tuồng) can be traced to the Mongol invasions in the 13th century when the Vietnamese captured a Chinese opera troupe.
vietnam: A significant number of Vietnamese people, especially in the South, are also adherents of two indigenous religions of syncretic Caodaism and semi-Buddhist Hoahaoism.
vietnam: The general secretary of the CPV performs numerous key administrative functions, controlling the party's national organisation.
vietnam: Traditional Vietnamese weddings remain popular.
vietnam: It was revived in the 20th century in Phan Bội Châu's History of the Loss of Vietnam, and by the Vietnamese Nationalist Party (VNQDĐ).
vietnam: In higher education, the government provides subsidised loans for students through the national bank, although there are deep concerns about access to the loans as well as the burden on students to repay them.
vietnam: Vietnam also maintains close military and security relations with Russia.
vietnam: On 21 October 2024, the National Assembly appointed army general Lương Cường as president, succeeding Tô Lâm.
vietnam: Most universities are located in major cities of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, with the country's education system continuously undergoing a series of reforms by the government.
vietnam: The planned railway will be a 1,545 kilometres (960 mi)-long express route serving a total of 23 stations, including Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, with 70% of its route running on bridges and through tunnels.
vietnam: In the highlands, Elephant Race Festivals are held annually in spring; riders will ride their elephants for about 1.6 km (0.99 mi) and the winning elephant will be given sugarcane.
vietnam: Since 1997, Vietnam has regulated public internet access extensively using both legal and technical means.
vietnam: In 1941, the Việt Minh, a communist-led national liberation movement, emerged under Ho Chi Minh's leadership.
vietnam: The lạc is a holy bird representing Vietnam's national mother Âu Cơ.
vietnam: In the years that followed, another NGO called GreenViet was formed by Vietnamese youngsters for the enforcement of wildlife protection.
vietnam: Vietnamese engineers were sent to Japan to receive training in the operation and maintenance of high-speed trains.
vietnam: Other primary exports include tea, rubber and fishery products.
vietnam: According to the General Statistics Office of Vietnam (GSO), growth remained strong despite the late-2000s global recession, holding at 6.8% in 2010.
vietnam: The reforms facilitated Vietnamese reintegration into the global economy and politics.
vietnam: Vietnam's culture has developed over the centuries from the indigenous ancient Đông Sơn culture with wet rice cultivation as its economic base.
vietnam: Hồ chose to take a compromising stance to avoid military conflict with France, asking the French to withdraw their colonial administrators and for French professors and engineers to help build a modern independent Vietnam.
vietnam: A variation of the name, Nanyue (or Nam Việt, 南越), was first documented in the 2nd century BC.
vietnam: Thiệu gradually outmaneuvered Kỳ and cemented his grip on power in fraudulent elections in 1967 and 1971.
vietnam: The French language, a legacy of colonial rule, is spoken by many educated Vietnamese as a second language, especially among those educated in the former South Vietnam, where it was a principal language in administration, education, and commerce.
vietnam: During most of the 17th and 18th centuries, Vietnam was effectively divided into two domains of Đàng Trong and Đàng Ngoài.
vietnam: The French maintained full control of their colonies until World War II, when the war in the Pacific led to the Japanese invasion of French Indochina in 1940.
vietnam: The plan was abandoned in late 2016 when a majority of the National Assembly voted to oppose the project due to widespread public concern over radioactive contamination.
vietnam: The popularity of Japanese, Korean, and Mandarin Chinese has also grown as the country's ties with other East Asian nations have strengthened.
vietnam: The Vietnam People's Armed Forces consists of the Vietnam People's Army (VPA), the Vietnam People's Public Security, and the Vietnam Self-Defence Militia.
vietnam: During the early colonial period, guerrillas of the royalist Cần Vương movement rebelled against French rule and massacred around a third of Vietnam's Christian population.
vietnam: Public buses operated by private companies are the main mode of long-distance travel for much of the population.
vietnam: In Hanoi and the surrounding areas of the Red River Delta, the temperatures are much lower between 15 and 33 °C (59 and 91 °F).
vietnam: And the under-17 achieved fourth place among 10 Teams of the 2000 AFC U-16 Championship.
vietnam: In 2007, 0.4% of the population was estimated to be infected with HIV, and the figure has remained stable since 2005.
vietnam: One of the long-term plans to restore southern Vietnam's damaged ecosystems is through the use of reforestation efforts.
vietnam: The VPA is the official name for the active military services of Vietnam, and is subdivided into the Vietnam People's Ground Forces, the Vietnam People's Navy, the Vietnam People's Air Force, the Vietnam Border Guard, and the Vietnam Coast Guard.
vietnam: Amnesty International described him and his arrested associates as prisoners of conscience.
vietnam: On 22 May 2024, Tô Lâm, who previously served as the Minister of Public Security, was voted as the president of Vietnam by the National Assembly, after Võ Văn Thưởng resigned in March of the same year due to corruption charges against him.
vietnam: Vietnam is home to eight UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
vietnam: All three are ranked in the top 100 most-visited cities in the world.
vietnam: By 1672, the English did establish relations with Tonkin and were allowed to reside in Phố Hiến.
vietnam: In 2012, approximately 50 years after the war, the US began a US$43 million joint clean-up project in the former chemical storage areas in Vietnam to take place in stages.
vietnam: Several other minority faiths exist in Vietnam, these include: Bani, Sunni and non-denominational sections of Islam which is practised primarily among the ethnic Cham minority.
vietnam: In 1963, Buddhist discontent with Diệm's perceived pro-Catholic bias erupted into mass demonstrations, leading to a violent government crackdown.
vietnam: At the Sixth National Congress of the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) in December 1986, reformist politicians replaced the "old guard" government with new leadership.
vietnam: Joint military exercises and war games have been held with Brunei, China, India, Japan, Laos, Russia, Singapore and the US.
vietnam: Traditional Vietnamese music varies between the country's northern and southern regions.
vietnam: They also had less interest in the territory than they did in China and Japan.
vietnam: After the partition of the country in 1954, only South Vietnam competed in the games, sending athletes to the 1956 and 1972 Olympics.
vietnam: The Han dynasty annexed northern and central Vietnam, which were subsequently under Chinese rule from 111 BC until the first dynasty emerged in 939.
vietnam: During winter, snow occasionally falls over the highest peaks of the far northern mountains near the Chinese border.
vietnam: It has high levels of corruption, censorship, environmental issues, and a poor human rights record.
vietnam: Seasonal variations in the mountains, plateaus, and the northernmost areas are much more dramatic, with temperatures varying from 3 °C (37 °F) in December and January to 37 °C (99 °F) in July and August.
vietnam: Vietnam has never participated in the Winter Olympic Games.
vietnam: In tourism, many popular cultural destinations include the former Imperial City of Huế, the World Heritage Sites of Phong Nha – Kẻ Bàng National Park, Hội An and Mỹ Sơn, coastal regions such as Nha Trang, the caves of Hạ Long Bay and the Marble Mountains.
vietnam: In 2009, Vietnam and Japan signed a deal to build a high-speed railway—shinkansen (bullet train)—using Japanese technology.
vietnam: By the early 10th century, northern Vietnam had gained autonomy, but not sovereignty, under the Khúc family.
vietnam: Where the government does not take measures to address the issue, most domestic wastewater is discharged, untreated, back into the environment and pollutes the surface water.
vietnam: Vietnam has also made significant advances in the development of robots, such as the TOPIO humanoid model.
vietnam: In Vietnam's high school graduation examinations, students can take their foreign language exam in one of the above-mentioned languages.
vietnam: Vietnamese authorities became concerned by increasing Christianisation activities, and after several Catholic missionaries were detained, the French Navy intervened in 1843 to free them.
vietnam: This led many of them to leave Vietnam.
vietnam: The French strategy for pacification in Vietnam relied more on alliances with local notables than on Christian missions to establish control and manage resistance.
vietnam: Vietnam's media sector is regulated by the government under the 2004 Law on Publication.
vietnam: Much of Vietnam's modern transportation network can trace its roots to the French colonial era, when it was used to facilitate the transportation of raw materials to its main ports.
vietnam: A nationalist political movement soon emerged, with leaders like Phan Bội Châu, Phan Châu Trinh, Phan Đình Phùng, Emperor Hàm Nghi, and Ho Chi Minh fighting or calling for independence.
vietnam: The influence of Chinese culture is more evident in the north, affecting both elite traditions and popular customs.
vietnam: During this period, the Nguyễn expanded into the Mekong Delta, annexing the Central Highlands and the Khmer lands in the Mekong Delta.
vietnam: It is now the world's largest producer of cashew nuts, with a one-third global share; the largest producer of black pepper, accounting for one-third of the world's market; and the second-largest rice exporter in the world after Thailand since the 1990s.
vietnam: Hang Sơn Đoòng, first surveyed in 2009 by an expedition from the British Cave Research Association, is among the largest caves in the world.
vietnam: The trains will travel at a maximum speed of 350 kilometres (220 mi) per hour.
vietnam: Communist forces supplying the Việt Cộng carried supplies along the Ho Chi Minh trail, which passed through Laos.
vietnam: Meanwhile, China and the Soviet Union provided North Vietnam with significant material aid and 15,000 combat advisers.
vietnam: As the country is located within the Indomalayan realm, Vietnam is one of twenty-five countries considered to possess a uniquely high level of biodiversity.
vietnam: Folk literature usually exists in many versions, passed down orally, and has unknown authors.
vietnam: The planned Long Thanh International Airport will have an annual service capacity of 100 million passengers once it becomes fully operational in 2025.
vietnam: Tuberculosis (TB) cases, however, are on the rise.
vietnam: Several minor earthquakes have been recorded.
vietnam: He died 19 July 2024, and was followed by Tô Lâm as General Secretary of the Communist Party.
vietnam: In 2015, Vietnam's military expenditure totalled approximately US$4.4 billion, equivalent to around 8% of its total government spending.
vietnam: Telecommunications services in Vietnam are wholly provided by the Vietnam Post and Telecommunications General Corporation (now the VNPT Group), which is a state-owned company.
vietnam: The Montagnard peoples of the Central Highlands also speak many distinct languages, some belonging to the Austroasiatic and others to the Malayo-Polynesian language families.
vietnam: From the 16th century onward, civil strife and frequent political infighting engulfed much of Đại Việt.
vietnam: This forest is home to monkeys and other animals not normally found in a subterranean environment.
vietnam: Due to differences in latitude and the marked variety in topographical relief, Vietnam's climate tends to vary considerably for each region.
vietnam: Despite its historical past, today Vietnam has pursued closer ties with the United States, especially in the geopolitical context of its territorial disputes with China in the South China Sea.
vietnam: Catholicism was introduced to Vietnam in the 16th century and was firmly established by Jesuit missionaries (mainly Portuguese and Italian) in the 17th century from nearby Portuguese Macau.
vietnam: This programme incarcerated many non-communists, but was successful at curtailing communist activity in the country, if only for a time.
vietnam: The National Assembly of Vietnam is the unicameral supreme state organ of power composed of 500 members.
vietnam: Several private airlines also operate in Vietnam, including Air Mekong, Bamboo Airways, Jetstar Pacific Airlines, VASCO and VietJet Air.
vietnam: The length of the national road system is about 15,370 kilometres (9,550 mi) with 15,085 kilometres (9,373 mi) of its length paved.
vietnam: At the siege of Tourane in 1858, France was aided by Spain (with Spanish and Filipino troops from the Philippines) and perhaps some Tonkinese Catholics.
vietnam: Vietnamese culture is mainly regarded as part of the Sinosphere.
vietnam: Traffic congestion is a growing problem in both Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, especially with the growth of individual car ownership.
vietnam: Since 2011, the company has also operated five renewable energy power plants, including the Nhơn Trạch 2 Thermal Power Plant (750 MW), Phú Quý Wind Power Plant (6 MW), Hủa Na Hydro-power Plant (180 MW), Dakdrinh Hydro-power Plant (125 MW), and Vũng Áng 1 Thermal Power Plant (1,200 MW).
vietnam: With an area of about 331,000 square kilometres and a population of over 102 million, it is the world's 16th-most populous country.
vietnam: This results in changes to economic structures.
vietnam: Millions fled the country in the aftermath of the war and during the subsidy period.
vietnam: Under the constitution, the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) asserts their role in all sectors of the country's politics.
vietnam: Both provinces and centrally-controlled municipalities are subdivided into wards (phường), communes (xã) and special zones (đặc khu).
vietnam: The communists attacked South Vietnamese targets during the 1968 Tết Offensive.
vietnam: From Hanoi, railway lines branch out to the northeast, north, and west; the eastbound line runs from Hanoi to Hạ Long Bay, the northbound line from Hanoi to Thái Nguyên, and the northeast line from Hanoi to Lào Cai.
vietnam: In 2000, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), Education for Nature – Vietnam, was founded to instill in the population the importance of wildlife conservation in the country.
vietnam: Vietnam has 2,360 rivers with an average annual discharge of 310 billion m3.
vietnam: In the South, Diệm countered North Vietnamese subversion (including the assassination of over 450 South Vietnamese officials in 1956) by detaining tens of thousands of suspected communists in "political reeducation centres".
vietnam: Many Vietnamese also believe in the supernatural and spiritualism where illness can be brought on by a curse or sorcery or caused by non-observance of a religious ethic.
vietnam: The mutiny split the independence movement, as many leading members converted to communism.
vietnam: During this political instability, the communists began to gain ground.
vietnam: Vietnam is a developing country with a lower-middle–income economy.
vietnam: But France did not act on these requests, including the idea of independence, and dispatched the French Far East Expeditionary Corps to restore colonial rule.
vietnam: Regarding sanitation, 78% of Vietnam's population has access to "improved" sanitation—94% of the urban population and 70% of the rural population.
vietnam: The country had a 2019 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 5.35/10, ranking it 104th globally out of 172 countries.
vietnam: It has assumed a seat on the United Nations Security Council twice.
vietnam: Apart from herbicide problems, arsenic in the ground water in the Mekong and Red River Deltas has also become a major concern.
vietnam: Vietnam is a unitary communist state that self-designates as a socialist republic, one of the two communist states (the other being Laos) in Southeast Asia.
vietnam: Only political organisations affiliated with or endorsed by the CPV are permitted to contest elections in Vietnam.
vietnam: A study released in 2018 revealed Vietnam is a destination for the illegal export of rhinoceros horns from South Africa due to the demand for them as a medicine and a status symbol.
vietnam: As a coastal country, Vietnam has many major sea ports, including Cam Ranh, Đà Nẵng, Hải Phòng, Ho Chi Minh City, Hạ Long, Qui Nhơn, Vũng Tàu, Cửa Lò, and Nha Trang.
vietnam: The Republic of Vietnam in the south was supported by the United States, Australia, South Korea, and Thailand, while the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in the north was supported by the Soviet Union, People's Republic of China, Khmer Rouge, and later, Sweden.
vietnam: On 3 August 2024, Tô Lâm, who is also serving as the president, was elected by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam as the general secretary following the death of Nguyễn Phú Trọng on 19 July 2024.
vietnam: Most of the country's urban water supply systems have been developed without proper management within the last 10 years.
vietnam: Successive monarchical dynasties absorbed Chinese influences through Confucianism and Buddhism, and expanded southward to the Mekong Delta, conquering Champa.
vietnam: However, they largely ignored the increasing demands for civil rights and self-governance.
vietnam: Religious beliefs cannot be misused to undermine state law and policies.
vietnam: Plant construction costs were funded by the company itself.
vietnam: US forces became involved in ground combat operations by 1965, and at their peak several years later, numbered more than 500,000.
vietnam: The Vietnamese government, through its construction ministry, forecasts the country will have a 45% urbanisation rate by 2020, although it was confirmed to only be 34.4% according to the 2019 census.
vietnam: The Vietnamese polity reached their zenith in the Lê dynasty of the 15th century, especially during the reign of emperor Lê Thánh Tông (1460–1497).
vietnam: The country has eleven nationally recognised holidays.
vietnam: Vietnam Airlines, the state-owned national airline, maintains a fleet of 86 passenger aircraft and aims to operate 170 by 2020.
vietnam: In 1985, agriculture made up 37.2% of Vietnam's GDP; in 2008, that number had declined to 18.5%.
vietnam: Its capital is Hanoi, while its largest city is Ho Chi Minh City.
vietnam: During the offensive, communist troops massacred over 3,000 civilians at Huế.
vietnam: Vietnam, officially the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam (SRV), is a country at the eastern edge of Mainland Southeast Asia.
vietnam: On average, between 40 and 50 new infections are reported daily in the country.
vietnam: The present Vietnam Olympic Committee was formed in 1976 and recognised by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in 1979.
vietnam: White áo dài is the required uniform for girls in many high schools across the country.
vietnam: Other significant international arrivals by nationality include the United States (614,117) and Australia (370,438).
vietnam: This resulted in the 1930 Yên Bái mutiny by the Vietnamese Nationalist Party (VNQDĐ), which the French quashed.
vietnam: On 11 January 2007,  Vietnam became the 150th member of the WTO (World Trade Organization).
vietnam: Between 1862 and 1867, the southern third of the country became the French colony of Cochinchina.
vietnam: In 1985, industry made up only 26.2% of Vietnam's GDP; by 2008, that number had increased to 43.2%.
vietnam: The US bought the biggest share of Vietnam's exports, while goods from China were the most popular Vietnamese import.
vietnam: At its narrowest point in the central Quảng Bình province, the country is as little as 50 kilometres (31 mi) across, though it widens to around 600 kilometres (370 mi) in the north.
vietnam: Vietnam went through prolonged warfare in the 20th century.
vietnam: They consist of creation stories, stories about their origins (Lạc Long Quân and Âu Cơ), culture heroes (Sơn Tinh and Thủy Tinh) which are referred to as a mountain and water spirit respectively and many other folklore tales.
vietnam: Since 1986, Vietnam retreated from totalitarianism to authoritarianism.
vietnam: The main Vietnamese formal dress, the áo dài, is worn for special occasions such as weddings and religious festivals.
vietnam: During Tết, many Vietnamese from major cities return to their hometowns or villages for family reunions and to pray for dead ancestors.
vietnam: The Vietnamese government spends over VNĐ1 trillion ($44 million) annually on demining operations and additional hundreds of billions of đồng for treatment, assistance, rehabilitation, vocational training, and resettlement of the victims of UXOs.
vietnam: More than 1,000 stores in the capital city of Hanoi were found to be selling both meats.
vietnam: Since the 1990s, Vietnam has taken several key steps to restore diplomatic ties with capitalist Western countries.
vietnam: Throughout the history of Vietnam, its economy has been based largely on agriculture—primarily wet rice cultivation.
vietnam: The number of colleges and universities increased dramatically in the 2000s from 178 in 2000 to 299 in 2005.
vietnam: In AD 938, the Vietnamese lord Ngô Quyền defeated the forces of the Chinese Southern Han state at Bạch Đằng River and achieved full independence for Vietnam in 939 after a millennium of Chinese domination.
vietnam: The Vietnam War later broke out between the communist North Vietnam, supported by the Soviet Union and China, and the anti-communist South Vietnam, supported by the United States.
vietnam: Many foreign universities operate private campuses in Vietnam, including Harvard University (United States) and the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (Australia).
vietnam: The average growth rate of the urban population has recently increased, which is attributed mainly to migration and rapid urbanisation.
vietnam: The partition of Vietnam by the Geneva Accords was not intended to be permanent, and stipulated that Vietnam would be reunited after the elections.
vietnam: The government's strong commitment to education has fostered significant growth, but it still needs to be sustained to retain academics.
vietnam: Publications focus mainly on life sciences (22%), physics (13%), and engineering (13%), which is consistent with recent advances in the production of diagnostic equipment and shipbuilding.
vietnam: Most French settlers in Indochina were concentrated in Cochinchina, particularly in Saigon, and in Hanoi, the colony's capital.
vietnam: The Supreme People's Court of Vietnam, headed by a chief justice, is the country's highest court of appeal, though it is also answerable to the National Assembly.
vietnam: The Dutch East India Company only managed to establish official relations with Tonkin in the spring of 1637 after leaving Dejima in Japan to establish trade for silk.
vietnam: Since the establishment of the Vietnam Academy of Science and Technology (VAST) by the government in 1975, the country is working to develop its first national space flight programme especially after the completion of the infrastructure at the Vietnam Space Centre (VSC) in 2018.
vietnam: In terms of access to fresh water, data from 65 utility companies show that only 12% of households in the area covered by them had access to the water network in 2002; by 2007, more than 70% of the population was connected.
vietnam: The household gas sector in Vietnam is dominated by PetroVietnam, which controls nearly 70% of the country's domestic market for liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).
vietnam: In 179 BC, a Chinese general named Zhao Tuo (Triệu Đà) defeated An Dương Vương and consolidated Âu Lạc into Nanyue.
vietnam: This also entailed an unsuccessful effort to strengthen and stabilise South Vietnam.
vietnam: The government is intervening and attempting solutions to decrease air pollution by decreasing the number of motorcycles while increasing public transportation.
vietnam: Other religions include Islam, Bahaʼís, and Hinduism, representing less than 0.2% of the population.
vietnam: There are also a few Kinh adherents of Islam, other minority adherents of Baháʼí, as well as Hindus among the Cham.
vietnam: Nhạc dân tộc cải biên is a modern form of Vietnamese folk music which arose in the 1950s, while ca trù is a complex form of sung poetry.
vietnam: And most notoriously, unexploded ordnances (UXO) pose dangers to humans and wildlife—another bitter legacy from the long wars.
vietnam: Vietnam's road system includes national roads administered at the central level, provincial roads managed at the provincial level, district roads managed at the district level, urban roads managed by cities and towns, and commune roads managed at the commune level.
vietnam: Many Vietnamese use mopeds for transportation, since they are relatively cheap and easy to operate.
vietnam: With the shift towards a more market-oriented economy, Vietnam's telecommunications market is continuously being reformed to attract foreign investment, which includes the supply of services and the establishment of nationwide telecom infrastructure.
vietnam: 15,986 species of flora have been identified in the country, of which 10% are endemic.
vietnam: Vietnamese literature has been influenced by Western styles in recent times, with the first literary transformation movement of thơ mới emerging in 1932.
vietnam: The division of the country ended a century later when the Tây Sơn brothers helped Trịnh to end Nguyễn; they also established a new dynasty and ended Trịnh.
vietnam: Nhã nhạc is a refined form of imperial court music, chèo is a form of generally satirical musical theatre, while xẩm is a type of Vietnamese folk music.
vietnam: This was noted in the country's National Environmental Condition Report in 2005.
vietnam: It is ranked 16th worldwide in biological diversity, being home to approximately 16% of the world's species.
vietnam: In October 1955, Ngô Đình Diệm toppled Bảo Đại in a fraudulent referendum organised by his brother Ngô Đình Nhu, and proclaimed himself president of the Republic of Vietnam.
vietnam: As of 2010, Vietnam had established diplomatic relations with 178 countries.
vietnam: The government will continue investing in education, especially for the poor, to have access to basic education.
vietnam: Upon the North Vietnamese victory in 1975, Vietnam reunified as a communist state that self-designated as a socialist state under the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) in 1976.
vietnam: The term "Việt" (Yue) (Chinese: 越; pinyin: Yuè; Cantonese Yale: Yuht; Wade–Giles: Yüeh4; Vietnamese: Việt) in Early Middle Chinese was first written using the logograph "戉" for an axe (a homophone), in oracle bone and bronze inscriptions of the Shang dynasty (c.
vietnam: By 1533, they began landing in the Vietnamese delta but were forced to leave because of local turmoil and fighting.
vietnam: Following the 1406–7 Ming–Hồ War, which overthrew the Hồ dynasty, Vietnamese independence was interrupted briefly by the Chinese Ming dynasty, but was restored by Lê Lợi, the founder of the Lê dynasty.
vietnam: The dominant Viet or Kinh ethnic group constitute 82,085,826 people or 85.32% of the population.
vietnam: Vietnam operates 20 major civil airports, including three international gateways: Noi Bai in Hanoi, Da Nang International Airport in Đà Nẵng, and Tan Son Nhat in Ho Chi Minh City.
vietnam: Vietnam remains a full member of the International Organisation of the Francophonie (La Francophonie) and education has revived some interest in the language.
vietnam: Mass political mobilization intensified during the Japanese military occupation of Indochina, and nationalist parties fostered a stronger sense of national identity.
vietnam: Northern classical music is Vietnam's oldest musical form and is traditionally more formal.
vietnam: From 1960, the Soviet Union and North Vietnam signed treaties providing for further Soviet military support.
vietnam: President Võ Văn Thưởng, Prime Minister Phạm Minh Chính (since 2021) and the most powerful leader Nguyễn Phú Trọng (since 2011) as the Communist Party of Vietnam's General Secretary.
vietnam: Plans for the high-speed rail line, however, have been postponed after the Vietnamese government decided to prioritise the development of both the Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City metros and expand road networks instead.
vietnam: There is a range of traditional instruments, including the đàn bầu (a monochord zither), the đàn gáo (a two-stringed fiddle with coconut body), and the đàn nguyệt (a two-stringed fretted moon lute).
vietnam: It has an enormous sinkhole, more than 183 m (600 ft) in depth, beneath which grows a tropical rainforest containing trees nearly 30 m (98 ft) tall.
vietnam: According to the UNESCO Institute for Statistics, Vietnam devoted 0.19% of its GDP to science research and development in 2011.
vietnam: The output of Vietnam's fisheries sector has seen strong growth, which could be attributed to the continued expansion of the aquaculture sub-sector.
vietnam: This led to the collapse of Diệm's relationship with the United States, and ultimately to a 1963 coup in which he and Nhu were assassinated.
vietnam: An increasing dissatisfaction even led to half-hearted, badly coordinated, and still worse executed plots to oust the French, such as the Hanoi Poison Plot of 1908 and the Thái Nguyên uprising of 1917.
vietnam: Tan Son Nhat is the country's largest airport, handling the majority of international passenger traffic.
vietnam: Vietnam is one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, with 55% of its population living in low-elevation coastal areas.
vietnam: Bauxite, an important material in the production of aluminium, is mined in central Vietnam.
vietnam: Headed by a chairman, it holds the unified powers of the state (meaning that it is superior to both the executive and judicial organs), with all central state officials being appointed from members of the National Assembly.
vietnam: The two countries maintain extensive economic and political ties.
vietnam: Based on a 2008 survey by the Vietnam Water Supply and Sewerage Association (VWSA), existing water production capacity exceeded demand, but service coverage is still sparse.
vietnam: In the late 1980s, a small population of Javan rhinoceros was found in Cát Tiên National Park.
vietnam: The Diệm era was followed by more than a dozen successive military governments, before the pairing of Air Marshal Nguyễn Cao Kỳ and General Nguyễn Văn Thiệu took control in mid-1965.
vietnam: Vietnam's minority groups speak a variety of languages, including: Tày, Mường, Cham, Khmer, Chinese languages (largely Cantonese), Nùng, and Hmong.
vietnam: Based on findings by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in 2022, the unemployment rate in Vietnam was 2.3%, the nominal GDP US$406.452 billion, and a nominal GDP per capita $4,086.
vietnam: Vietnam's fauna includes 307 nematode species, 200 oligochaeta, 145 acarina, 113 springtails, 7,750 insects, 260 reptiles, and 120 amphibians.
vietnam: According to statistics from BP, Vietnam is listed among the 52 countries that have proven crude oil reserves.
vietnam: In 2018, the Japanese engineering group Shimizu Corporation, working with the Vietnamese military, built a plant for the treatment of soil polluted by Agent Orange.
vietnam: In 2021, General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam, Nguyễn Phú Trọng, was re-elected for his third term in office, meaning he was Vietnam's most powerful leader in decades.
vietnam: The form Việt Nam (越南) is first recorded in the 16th-century oracular poem Sấm Trạng Trình.
vietnam: The Allies agreed that Indochina still belonged to France.
vietnam: In 1986, the CPV launched economic and political reforms similar to the Chinese economic reform, transforming the country to a socialist-oriented market economy.
vietnam: To support South Vietnam's struggle against the communist insurgency, the United States used the 1964 Gulf of Tonkin incident as a pretext for increasing its contribution of military advisers.
vietnam: The decision prompted positive comments among Vietnamese on social media, though some noted that the consumption of dog meat will remain an ingrained habit among many people.
vietnam: A study also shows that rural-to-urban area migrants have a higher standard of living than both non-migrants in rural areas and non-migrants in urban areas.
vietnam: Subsequently, Vietnam is also the world's second largest exporter of coffee.
vietnam: The government embarked on a mass campaign of collectivisation of farms and factories.
vietnam: VNPT's monopoly was finally ended by the government in 2003 with the issuance of a decree.
vietnam: Quan họ (alternate singing) is popular in the Bắc Ninh province.
vietnam: On 2 July 1976, North and South Vietnam were merged to form the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
vietnam: In 2010, Vietnam was ranked as the eighth-largest crude petroleum producer in the Asia and Pacific region.
vietnam: More global aid is being delivered through The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to fight the spread of the disease in the country.
vietnam: Vietnam also attracts large numbers of visitors from Europe, with almost 1.9 million visitors in 2017; most European visitors came from Russia (574,164), followed by the United Kingdom (283,537), France (255,396), and Germany (199,872).
vietnam: The North Vietnamese government claimed that 2,148 people were killed in the process by November 1957.
vietnam: Other prominent images that are also revered are the turtle, buffalo, and horse.
vietnam: It has introduced more regulations for waste handling.
vietnam: Around 770,000 of the country's Protestants are members of ethnic minorities, particularly the highland Montagnards and Hmong people.
vietnam: The majority of Vietnamese do not follow any organised religion, though many of them observe some form of Vietnamese folk religion and elements of Buddhism.
vietnam: Article 70 of the 1992 Constitution of Vietnam declares freedom of belief and religion for all citizens.
vietnam: However, Nanyue was itself incorporated into the empire of the Chinese Han dynasty in 111 BC after the Han–Nanyue War.
vietnam: By 2012, the top three telecom operators in Vietnam were Viettel, Vinaphone, and MobiFone.
vietnam: Many ethnic minorities, such as the Muong, who are closely related to the Kinh, dwell in the highlands, which cover two-thirds of Vietnam's territory.
vietnam: The traditional focuses of Vietnamese culture are based on humanity (nhân nghĩa) and harmony (hòa), in which family and community values are highly regarded.
vietnam: Vietnamese scientists have made many significant contributions in various fields of study, most notably in mathematics.
vietnam: The government of Netherlands has been providing aid focusing its investments mainly on water-related sectors including water treatment projects.
vietnam: Although the authority of the state remained unchallenged under Đổi Mới, the government encouraged private ownership of farms and factories, economic deregulation, and foreign investment, while maintaining control over strategic industries.
vietnam: In 2018, Travel + Leisure ranked Hội An as one of the world's top 15 best destinations to visit.
vietnam: Agriculture's share of Vietnam's GDP has fallen in recent decades, declining from 42% in 1989 to 20% in 2006 as production in other sectors of the economy has risen.
vietnam: Japan exploited Vietnam's natural resources to support its military campaigns, culminating in a full-scale takeover of the country in March 1945.
vietnam: This included 13,500 to as many as 100,000 executions.
vietnam: The collaborative project OpenNet Initiative classifies Vietnam's level of online political censorship to be "pervasive", while Reporters Without Borders (RWB) considers Vietnam to be one of 15 global "internet enemies".
vietnam: Private ownership began to be encouraged in industry, commerce, and agriculture, and state enterprises were restructured to operate under market constraints.
vietnam: During the winter or dry season, extending roughly from November to April, the monsoon winds usually blow from the northeast along the Chinese coast and across the Gulf of Tonkin, picking up considerable moisture.
vietnam: In the 8th century BC, a tribe on the middle Yangtze were called the Yangyue, a term later used for peoples further south.
vietnam: Văn Lang was established by Lạc Việt tribes, who were likely a confederacy of multilingual Austroasiatic and Kra-Dai speakers who occupied the Red River Delta in northern Vietnam.
vietnam: During the rule of the Trần dynasty, Đại Việt repelled three Mongol invasions.
vietnam: The Vietnamese government began doing this at the end of the war.
vietnam: Stone artefacts excavated in Gia Lai province have been claimed to date to 780,000 years ago, based on associated find of tektites, however this claim has been challenged because tektites are often found in archaeological sites of various ages in Vietnam.
vietnam: Vietnam receives high rates of precipitation in the form of rainfall with an average amount from 1,500 to 2,000 mm (60 to 80 in) during the monsoon seasons; this often causes flooding, especially in the cities with poor drainage systems.
vietnam: In December 1974, North Vietnam captured the province of Phước Long and started a full-scale offensive, culminating in the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975.
vietnam: Following the completion of the first phase in Đà Nẵng in late 2017, the US announced its commitment to clean other sites, especially in the heavily impacted site of Biên Hòa.
vietnam: This culture spread to the rest of Southeast Asia, including Maritime Southeast Asia, throughout the first millennium BC.
vietnam: Between 1804-13, the name Vietnam was used officially by Emperor Gia Long.
vietnam: The northern part of the country consists mostly of highlands and the Red River Delta.
vietnam: Other energy sources are PetroVietnam (4,435 MW), Vinacomin (1,785 MW) and 10,031 MW from build–operate–transfer (BOT) investors.
vietnam: In the 21st century, the modern Vietnamese pop music industry known as V-pop incorporates elements of many popular genres worldwide, such as electronic, dance and R&B.
vietnam: The intervention was a success, resulting in the establishment of a new, pro-Vietnam socialist government, the People's Republic of Kampuchea, which ruled until 1989.
vietnam: Their large numbers have been known to cause traffic congestion and air pollution in Vietnam.
vietnam: Vietnamese literature has a centuries-deep history and the country has a rich tradition of folk literature based on the typical–to-eight-verse poetic form (lục bát) called ca dao, which usually focuses on village ancestors and heroes.
vietnam: Since the partition of Vietnam, the population of the Central Highlands was almost exclusively Degar (including more than 40 tribal groups); however, the South Vietnamese government at the time enacted a programme of resettling Kinh in indigenous areas.
vietnam: The use of meats such as pork, beef, and chicken was relatively limited in the past.
vietnam: The name Việt Nam (pronounced [viə̂tˀ nāːm], chữ Hán: 越南), literally "Viet South", means per Vietnamese word order "Viet of the South"; meanwhile, per Classical Chinese word order, "Việt Nam" ambiguously means either "South of the Viet" or "Viet people's Southern country".
vietnam: After World War II, France returned to reassert colonial control in the First Indochina War, but was defeated in 1954 amid the global Cold War.
vietnam: Hoàng Tụy pioneered the applied mathematics field of global optimisation in the 20th century, while Ngô Bảo Châu won the 2010 Fields Medal for his proof of fundamental lemma in the theory of automorphic forms.
vietnam: Its principles of sovereignty and insistence on cultural independence are reflected in historical documents such as the 11th-century poem Nam quốc sơn hà and the 1428 proclamation Bình Ngô đại cáo.
vietnam: Beneath the Supreme People's Court stand the provincial municipal courts and many local courts.
vietnam: That year, the United States announced Vietnam would be one of 15 states to receive funding as part of its global AIDS relief plan.
vietnam: Though the government of Vietnam maintains that such censorship is necessary to safeguard the country against obscene or sexually explicit content, many political and religious websites that are deemed to be undermining state authority are also blocked.
vietnam: From its foundation, the Paris Foreign Missions Society under Propaganda Fide actively sent missionaries to Vietnam, entering Cochinchina  in 1664 and Tonkin  in 1666.
vietnam: The pro-Hanoi Viet Cong began a guerrilla campaign in South Vietnam in the late 1950s to overthrow Diệm's government.
vietnam: It is not only an oral tradition, but a mixing of three media: hidden (only retained in the memory of folk authors), fixed (written), and shown (performed).
vietnam: Traditionally, Vietnamese cuisine is based around five fundamental taste "elements" (Vietnamese: ngũ vị): spicy (metal), sour (wood), salty (water), bitter (fire), and sweet (earth).
vietnam: The average annual temperature is generally higher in the plains than in the mountains, especially in southern Vietnam compared to the north.
vietnam: In 1986, the Sixth National Congress of the CPV introduced socialist-oriented market economic reforms as part of the Đổi Mới reform programme.
vietnam: Though China and Vietnam are now formally at peace, significant territorial tensions remain between the two countries over the South China Sea.
vietnam: Urbanisation also helps to improve basic services, which increase people's standards of living.
vietnam: Fansipan (Vietnamese: Phan Xi Păng), the summit of which is located on the border between Lào Cai and Lai Châu provinces, is the highest mountain on the Indochinese Peninsula, standing 3,143 m (10,312 ft) high.
vietnam: The number of people who live in urbanised areas in 2019 was 33,122,548 people (with the urbanisation rate at 34.4%).
vietnam: The French developed a plantation economy to promote export of tobacco, indigo, tea and coffee.
vietnam: From 1953 to 1956, the North Vietnamese government instituted agrarian reforms including "rent reduction" and "land reform", which resulted in significant political repression.
vietnam: In 2009, Vietnamese lawyer Lê Công Định was arrested and charged with the capital crime of subversion; several of his associates were also arrested.
vietnam: The reformers were led by 71-year-old Nguyễn Văn Linh, who became the party's new general secretary.
vietnam: Historically, Vietnamese society has been structured around làng (villages).
vietnam: Basketball has become an increasingly popular sport in Vietnam, especially in Ho Chi Minh City, Hanoi and Sóc Trăng.
vietnam: Southern Vietnam is divided into coastal lowlands, the mountains of the Annamite Range, and extensive forests.
vietnam: Furthermore, the urbanisation movement in Vietnam is mainly between the rural areas and the country's Southeast region.
vietnam: The population had grown significantly from the 1979 census, which showed the total population of reunified Vietnam to be 52.7 million.
vietnam: Facing an increasing casualty count, rising domestic opposition to the war, and growing international condemnation, the US began withdrawing from ground combat roles in the early 1970s.
vietnam: In recent years, a number of sign languages have developed in the major cities.
vietnam: This led to the five-year economic plans being replaced by the socialist-oriented market mechanism.
vietnam: After Japan's defeat in World War II, the Việt Minh seized Hanoi and Huế in August 1945, dissolved the Empire of Vietnam, and established a provisional government that declared national independence on 2 September.
vietnam: In the southern and central areas affected most by the chemical's use during the Vietnam War, nearly 4.8 million Vietnamese people have been exposed to it and suffered from its effects.
vietnam: The first French missionaries arrived in 1658, under the Portuguese Padroado.
vietnam: Although Vietnam is a relative newcomer to the oil industry, it is the third-largest oil producer in Southeast Asia with a total 2011 output of 318,000 barrels per day (50,600 m3/d).
vietnam: The country has the highest proportion of land use for permanent crops together with other states in the Greater Mekong Subregion.
vietnam: Relations with the United States began improving in August 1995 with both states upgrading their liaison offices to embassy status.
vietnam: Vietnam is also home to 1,438 species of freshwater microalgae, constituting 9.6% of all microalgae species, as well as 794 aquatic invertebrates and 2,458 species of sea fish.
vietnam: Gia Long asked the Jiaqing Emperor of the Qing dynasty to confer on him the title 'King of Nam Việt / Nanyue' (南越 in Chinese character) after seizing power in Annam.
vietnam: The US also engaged in sustained aerial bombing.
vietnam: Afterwards, the Japanese Empire was allowed to station its troops in Vietnam while the pro-Vichy French colonial administration continued.
vietnam: With improved relations with Western countries and recent reforms in Vietnamese administration, English has been increasingly used as a second language, and the study of English is now obligatory in most schools either alongside or in place of French.
vietnam: Vietnam was divided into North (Trịnh) and South (Nguyễn) from 1600 to 1777.
vietnam: In southern and central areas, the climate is tropical monsoon with only two seasons (rainy and dry).
vietnam: The provincial road system has around 27,976 kilometres (17,383 mi) of paved roads, while 50,474 kilometres (31,363 mi) district roads are paved.
vietnam: The oldest Homo sapiens fossils from Mainland Southeast Asia are of Middle Pleistocene provenance, and include isolated tooth fragments from Tham Om and Hang Hum.
vietnam: Vietnamese recipes use lemongrass, ginger, mint, rau răm, long coriander, Saigon cinnamon, bird's eye chilli, lime and basil leaves.
vietnam: In 2023, a three-person collective leadership was responsible for governing Vietnam.
vietnam: The Vietnam National Cultivar Gene Bank preserves 12,300 cultivars of 115 species.
vietnam: Tourism is an important element of economic activity in the nation, contributing 7.5% of the total GDP.
vietnam: Other festivals includeTết Nguyên Tiêu, Tết Trung Thu, and various temple and nature festivals.
vietnam: The Vovinam, Kim Kê and Võ Bình Định are widespread in Vietnam, while football is the country's most popular sport.
vietnam: From north to south Vietnam, the country also has numerous islands; Phú Quốc is the largest.
vietnam: As of 2021, the population of Vietnam stands at approximately 97.5 million people.
vietnam: The three entities were formally integrated into the union of French Indochina in 1887.
vietnam: Traffic collisions remain the major safety issue of Vietnamese transportation, with an average of 30 people losing their lives daily.
vietnam: In 1978, in response to the Khmer Rouge government of Cambodia ordering massacres of Vietnamese residents in the border villages in the districts of An Giang and Kiên Giang, the Vietnamese military invaded Cambodia and removed them from power after occupying Phnom Penh.
vietnam: In 2016, Vietnam won its first gold medal at the Olympics.
vietnam: It started by replanting mangrove forests in the Mekong Delta regions and in Cần Giờ outside Ho Chi Minh City, where mangroves are important to ease (though not eliminate) flood conditions during monsoon seasons.
vietnam: Inadequate funding has also contributed to a shortage of nurses, midwives and hospital beds; in 2000, Vietnam had only 24.7 hospital beds per 10,000 people before declining to 23.7 in 2005 as stated in the annual report of Vietnamese Health Ministry.
vietnam: In recent centuries, Western cultures have become popular among recent generations of Vietnamese.
vietnam: As a result, Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City (the two major cities in the Red River Delta and Southeast regions, respectively) increased their share of the total urban population from 8.5% and 24.9% to 15.9% and 31% respectively.
vietnam: The Red River Delta is a flat, roughly triangular low-level plain covering 15,000 km2 (5,792 sq mi).
vietnam: Vietnam reveres a number of key cultural symbols, such as the Vietnamese dragon which is derived from crocodile and snake imagery; Vietnam's national father, Lạc Long Quân is depicted as a holy dragon.
vietnam: In the central and southern parts of Vietnam, traces of Champa and Khmer culture are evidenced through the remains of ruins, artefacts, as well as within their population as the successor of the ancient Sa Huỳnh culture.
vietnam: It also maintains relations with over 650 non-governmental organisations.
vietnam: Third-graders can choose one of seven languages (English, Russian, French, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, German) as their first foreign language.
vietnam: Urbanisation is said to have a positive correlation with economic growth.
vietnam: In August 1945, the Allies had decided to divide Indochina at the 16th parallel to allow Chiang Kai-shek of the Republic of China to receive the Japanese surrender in the north while Britain's Lord Louis Mountbatten received their surrender in the south.
vietnam: The VPA has an active manpower of around 450,000, but its total strength, including paramilitary forces, may be as high as 5,000,000.
vietnam: Mountains account for 40% of the country's land area, and tropical forests cover around 42%.
vietnam: During this period, the French administration imposed significant political and cultural changes on Vietnamese society.
vietnam: Ba Bể Lake is the largest natural lake in Vietnam, and the Mekong River is the longest river in the country.
vietnam: The term 'Baiyue'/'Bách Việt' first appeared in the book Lüshi Chunqiu compiled around 239 BC.
vietnam: The soil in much of the southern part of Vietnam is relatively low in nutrients as a result of intense cultivation.
vietnam: Vietnam's pre-1986 communist system has been described either as totalitarian or not totalitarian but autocratic.
vietnam: The most visited destinations in Vietnam are the largest city, Ho Chi Minh City, with over 5.8 million international arrivals, followed by Hanoi with 4.6 million and Hạ Long, including Hạ Long Bay with 4.4 million arrivals.
vietnam: An ineffective planned economy, a trade embargo by the West, and wars with Cambodia and China crippled the country further.
vietnam: These include the Vietnamese Fatherland Front and worker and trade unionist parties.
vietnam: With negotiations having broken down, tensions between the Viet Minh and French authorities erupted into the full-scale First Indochina War in December 1946.
vietnam: Vietnam has participated in the Summer Olympic Games since 1952.
vietnam: With rapid development, factories have sprung up which indirectly pollute the air and water, for example, in the 2016 Vietnam marine life disaster.
vietnam: A large number of public schools have been constructed across the country to raise the national literacy rate, which stood at 90% in 2008.
vietnam: Under the current constitution, the CPV is the only party allowed to rule, the operation of all other political parties being outlawed.
vietnam: Since the partition, North Vietnam has established a public health system that has reached down to the hamlet level.
vietnam: Since the early 2000s, Vietnam has made significant progress in combating malaria.
vietnam: Vietnam's primary cross-country rail service is the Reunification Express from Ho Chi Minh City to Hanoi, a distance of nearly 1,726 kilometres (1,072 mi).
vietnam: In 1802, Nguyễn Phúc Ánh, who became Emperor Gia Long, established the Nguyễn dynasty.
vietnam: Due to the ambiguity of what constitutes being Buddhist and the influence of Buddhism on Vietnamese culture, estimates of the Buddhist population vary widely, with the Vietnam Buddhist Sangha claiming about 10 million adherents in 2010.
vietnam: Vietnamese mark a common ancestral anniversary on the tenth day of the third lunar month.
vietnam: In recent times, there have been some efforts at mixing Vietnamese traditional music—especially folk music—with modern music to revive and promote national music in the modern context and educate the younger generations about Vietnam's traditional musical instruments and singing styles.
vietnam: The country also held a national multi-sport event, the Vietnam National Games, held every four years.
vietnam: This migration was in large part aided by the United States military through Operation Passage to Freedom.
vietnam: There are 840 birds and 310 mammals found in Vietnam, of which 100 birds and 78 mammals are endemic.
vietnam: According to the white paper Religions and Religious Policy in Vietnam (2023), Vietnam has 43 denominational organizations belonging to 16 religions that have received state recognition and registration to operate, with 27.7 million adherents, accounting for nearly 28% of the population.
vietnam: It covers a total area of 331,210 km2 (127,881 sq mi) or 331,699 km2 (128,070 sq mi).
vietnam: The northern region experiences a monsoonal and humid subtropical climate with four distinct seasons (spring, summer, autumn, and winter), with winters typically dry and summers ranging from hot to mild.
vietnam: After the national reunification in 1975, a nationwide health service was established.
vietnam: Another form of music called chầu văn is used to invoke spirits during ceremonies.
vietnam: In Vietnam, wildlife poaching has become a major concern.
vietnam: Portuguese traders and Jesuit missionaries under the Padroado system were active in both Vietnamese realms of Đàng Trong (Cochinchina) and Đàng Ngoài (Tonkin) in the 17th century.
vietnam: The combined length of the country's land boundaries is 4,639 km (2,883 mi), and its coastline is 3,444 km (2,140 mi) long.
vietnam: The health ministry has also announced that water inspection units will be established nationwide beginning in June 2019.
vietnam: As of 2017, EVN made up about 61.4% of the country's power generation system with a total power capacity of 25,884 MW.
vietnam: Most of the clean water supply infrastructure is not widely developed.
vietnam: But since the recent reformation, Vietnam has seen a greater exposure to neighbouring Southeast Asian, East Asian, as well as Western culture and media.
vietnam: Older people usually give the young a lì xì (red envelope), while special holiday food, such as bánh chưng (rice cake) in a square shape together with variety of dried fruits, are presented in the house for visitors.
vietnam: However, the last individual of the species in Vietnam was reportedly shot in 2010.
vietnam: One of the government's efforts includes attempting to promote campaigns that encourage locals to sort household waste, since waste sorting is still not practised by most of Vietnamese society.
vietnam: Vietnam maintains the death penalty for numerous offences.
vietnam: Spanish Dominicans joined the Tonkin mission in 1676, and Franciscans were in Cochinchina from 1719 to 1834.
vietnam: Since the reunification in 1976, an increase in communist policies nationwide resulted in the nationalisation and confiscation of property, especially from the Hoa in the south and the wealthy in cities.
vietnam: In the capital city alone, the number of mopeds increased from 0.5 million in 2001 to 4.7 million in 2013.
vietnam: This led to the Vietnamese famine of 1944–1945, which killed up to two million people.
vietnam: 'Hundred Yue/Viet').
vietnam: In 2010, Vietnam's total state spending on science and technology amounted to roughly 0.45% of its GDP.
vietnam: In the late 1980s, the quality of healthcare declined to some degree as a result of budgetary constraints, a shift of responsibility to the provinces, and the introduction of charges.
vietnam: The exclusive economic zone of Vietnam covers 417,663 km2 (161,261 sq mi) in the South China Sea.
vietnam: 300 days of free movement were permitted, during which almost a million northerners, including at least 500,000 Catholics and approximately 200,000 Buddhists, moved south, fearing persecution by the communists.
vietnam: Meanwhile, the Mahāyāna branch of Buddhism flourished and became the state religion.
vietnam: Teeth attributed to Homo sapiens from the Late Pleistocene have been found at Dong Can, and from the Early Holocene at Mai Da Dieu, Lang Gao and Lang Cuom.
vietnam: Hò is a diverse genre of work songs performed in central and southern Vietnam.
vietnam: The prime minister is the head of government, presiding over a council of ministers composed of five deputy prime ministers and the heads of 26 ministries and commissions.
vietnam: According to Vietnamese legends, the Hồng Bàng dynasty of the Hùng kings, first established in 2879 BC, is considered the first state established in Vietnam (then known as Xích Quỷ and later Văn Lang).
vietnam: Industrial solid waste accounted for 181% of that increase.
vietnam: Vietnam has an extensive state-controlled network of schools, colleges, and universities, and a growing number of privately run and partially privatised institutions.
vietnam: Black pepper is frequently used in place of chillis to produce spicy flavours.
vietnam: Russian, and to a lesser extent German, Czech, and Polish are known among some northern Vietnamese whose families had ties with the Eastern Bloc during the Cold War.
vietnam: After the 1862 Treaty of Saigon, and especially after France completely conquered Lower Cochinchina in 1867, the Văn Thân movement of scholar-gentry class arose and committed violence against Catholics across central and northern Vietnam.
vietnam: In May 2016, US President Barack Obama further normalised relations with Vietnam after he announced the lifting of an arms embargo on sales of lethal arms to Vietnam.
vietnam: The remaining companies included: EVNTelecom, Vietnammobile and S-Fone.
vietnam: Deep poverty, defined as the percentage of the population living on less than $1 per day, has declined significantly in Vietnam, and the relative poverty rate is now less than that of China, India, and the Philippines.
vietnam: Written literature has been found dating back to the 10th century Ngô dynasty, with notable ancient authors including Nguyễn Trãi, Hồ Xuân Hương, Nguyễn Du and Nguyễn Đình Chiểu.
vietnam: For many decades, foreign cultural influences, especially those of Western origin, were shunned.
vietnam: While drinks are usually served cold with ice cubes, especially during the summer, hot drinks, such as tea, may be served to treat illnesses and welcome guests.
vietnam: Inspections are to be conducted without notice, since there have been many cases involving health issues caused by poor or polluted water supplies, as well as unhygienic conditions reported every year.
vietnam: The Red River flows past Hanoi in Northern Vietnam before emptying into the Gulf of Tonkin.
vietnam: However, this worsened relations with China, which had supported the Khmer Rouge.
vietnam: Based on government findings in 2009, the number of religious people increased by 932,000.
vietnam: In the immediate aftermath of World War II, the communist-led Viet Minh coalition front launched the August Revolution and declared Vietnam's independence from the Empire of Japan in 1945.
vietnam: All religions are equal before the law and each place of worship is protected under Vietnamese state law.
vietnam: Some examples of basic Vietnamese drinks include cà phê đá (Vietnamese iced coffee), cà phê trứng (egg coffee), chanh muối (salted pickled lime juice), cơm rượu (glutinous rice wine), nước mía (sugarcane juice) and trà sen (Vietnamese lotus tea).
vietnam: As a result of several market liberalization measures, Vietnam has become a major exporter of agricultural products.
vietnam: In 2016, Vietnam's national life expectancy stood at 80.9 years for women and 71.5 for men, and the infant mortality rate was 17 per 1,000 live births.
vietnam: The women's national football team had first appearance at the FIFA Women's World Cup in 2023, became the first 11-a-side national football team to participate in a World Cup tournament, and also traditionally dominates the Southeast Asian Games, along with its chief rival, Thailand.
vietnam: The rainy season accounts for 70% of the year's discharge.
vietnam: South Vietnam was ruled by a provisional government for 14 months under North Vietnamese control.
vietnam: Temperatures vary less in the southern plains around Ho Chi Minh City and the Mekong Delta, ranging from between 21 and 35 °C (70 and 95 °F) over the year.
vietnam: Most of Vietnam's power is generated by either hydropower or fossil fuel power such as coal, oil and gas, while diesel, small hydropower and renewable energy supplies the remainder.
vietnam: In July 1955, the State of Vietnam's prime minister Ngô Đình Diệm announced in a broadcast that South Vietnam would not participate in the elections, as they had not signed the accords and therefore were not bound by them.
vietnam: Anti-Catholic violence persisted in Nam Định, Quảng Trị, and Bình Định during the 1880s.
vietnam: In 2004, government subsidies covered about 15% of health care expenses.
vietnam: But as the French were weakened by the German occupation, British-Indian forces and the remaining Japanese Southern Expeditionary Army Group were used to maintain order and help France reestablish control through the 1945–1946 War in Vietnam, south of the 16th parallel.
vietnam: The Vietnamese government had planned to develop a nuclear reactor as the path to establish another source for electricity from nuclear power.
vietnam: The Hoa (ethnic Chinese) and Khmer Krom people are mainly lowlanders.
vietnam: The vast majority of the tourists in the country, some 9.7 million, came from Asia; namely China (4 million), South Korea (2.6 million), and Japan (798,119).
vietnam: Vietnam's current foreign policy is to consistently implement a policy of independence, self-reliance, peace, co-operation, and development, as well as openness, diversification, multilateralisation with international relations.
vietnam: According to the 2019 census, the country's population was 96,208,984.
vietnam: Although the 1997 Asian financial crisis caused an economic slowdown to 4–5% growth per year, its economy began to recover in 1999, and grew at around 7% per year from 2000 to 2005, one of the fastest in the world.
vietnam: The name has also been found on 12 steles carved in the 16th and 17th centuries, including one at Bao Lam Pagoda in Hải Phòng that dates to 1558.
vietnam: In the south, Saigon's administrative services collapsed, and chaos, riots, and murder were widespread.
vietnam: The campaign failed militarily, but shocked the American establishment and turned US public opinion against the war.
vietnam: The war had devastated Vietnam and killed 966,000 to 3.8 million people.
vietnam: The Vietnamese government spent US$49.07 million on the preservation of biodiversity in 2004 alone and has established 126 conservation areas, including 30 national parks.
vietnam: Vietnam has two World Natural Heritage Sites—the Hạ Long Bay and Phong Nha-Kẻ Bàng National Park—together with nine biosphere reserves, including Cần Giờ Mangrove Forest, Cát Tiên, Cát Bà, Kiên Giang, the Red River Delta, Mekong Delta, Western Nghệ An, Cà Mau, and Cu Lao Cham Marine Park.
vietnam: It is only available to a small proportion of the population, with about one-third of 727 district towns having some form of piped water supply.
vietnam: Despite this, Vietnam is also home to various ethnic groups, of which 54 are officially recognised, including the Hmong, Dao, Tày, Thái and Nùng.
vietnam: General education in Vietnam is divided into five categories: kindergarten, elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, and universities.
vietnam: Local foods in the north are often less spicy than southern dishes, as the colder northern climate limits the production and availability of spices.
vietnam: Vietnam profile from BBC News
Vietnam at Encyclopædia Britannica
 Wikimedia Atlas of Vietnam
vietnam: A 1974 US Senate subcommittee estimated nearly 1.4 million Vietnamese civilians were killed or wounded between 1965 and 1974—including 415,000 killed.
vietnam: Since 1986, Vietnam's urbanisation rates have surged rapidly after the Vietnamese government implemented the Đổi Mới economic programme, changing the system into a socialist one and liberalising property rights.
vietnam: Between 2005 and 2014, the number of Vietnamese scientific publications recorded in Thomson Reuters' Web of Science increased at a rate well above the average for Southeast Asia, albeit from a modest starting point.
vietnam: It referred to a people or chieftain to the northwest of the Shang.
vietnam: Vietnam has a strong street food culture, with 40 popular dishes commonly found throughout the country.
vietnam: In the 1500s, the Portuguese explored the Vietnamese coast and reportedly erected a stele on the Chàm Islands to mark their presence.
vietnam: As a result of these reforms, Vietnam achieved approximately 8% annual gross domestic product (GDP) growth between 1990 and 1997.
vietnam: Through Han rule, Confucianism was introduced into the region and came to influence Vietnamese societal norms and governance.
vietnam: Common ingredients include fish sauce, shrimp paste, soy sauce, rice, fresh herbs, fruits, and vegetables.
vietnam: Vietnam is located on the eastern Indochinese Peninsula between the latitudes 8° and 24°N, and the longitudes 102° and 110°E.
vietnam: First, the Chinese-supported Mạc dynasty challenged the Lê dynasty's power.
vietnam: It has the smallest area but the highest population and population density of all regions in Vietnam.
vietnam: Vietnam hosted roughly 13 million tourists in 2017, an increase of 29.1% over the previous year, making it one of the fastest-growing tourist destinations in the world.
vietnam: Access to electricity grew from 14% of total households with electricity in 1993 to above 96% in 2009.
vietnam: Military courts possess special jurisdiction in matters of state security.
vietnam: Other Western sports such as badminton, tennis, volleyball, ping-pong and chess are also widely popular.
vietnam: As part of the continuous campaign to demine/remove UXOs, several international bomb removal agencies from the United Kingdom, Denmark, South Korea and the US have been providing assistance.
vietnam: According to the General Statistics Office of Vietnam in 2019, Buddhists account for 4.79% of the total population, Catholics 6.1%, Protestants 1.0%, Hoahao Buddhists 1.02%, and Caodaism followers 0.58%.
vietnam: Bicycles, motorcycles, and motor scooters remain the most popular forms of road transport in the country, a legacy of the French, though the number of privately owned cars has been increasing in recent years.
vietnam: According to a 2007 survey 81% of Vietnamese people did not believe in a god.
vietnam: Between 1615 and 1753, French traders also engaged in trade in Vietnam.
vietnam: Vietnam was inhabited by the Paleolithic age, with states established in the first millennium BC on the Red River Delta in modern-day northern Vietnam.
vietnam: Traditional medical practitioners, amulets, and other forms of spiritual protection and religious practices may be employed to treat the ill person.
vietnam: In 1946, the Franco-Chinese and Ho–Sainteny Agreements enabled French forces to replace the Chinese north of the 16th parallel and facilitated a coexistence between the DRV and the French that strengthened the Viet Minh while undermining the nationalists.
vietnam: By 1884, the entire country was under French rule, with the central and northern parts of Vietnam separated into the two protectorates of Annam and Tonkin.
vietnam: The defeat of French Union forces in the 1954 Battle of Điện Biên Phủ allowed Hồ to negotiate a ceasefire from a favourable position at the subsequent Geneva Conference.
vietnam: He and the reformers implemented a series of market reforms known as Đổi Mới ("Renovation") that carefully managed the transition from a planned economy to a "socialist-oriented market economy".
vietnam: Vietnam holds membership in 63 international organisations, including the United Nations (UN), Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), International Organisation of the Francophonie (La Francophonie), and World Trade Organization (WTO).
vietnam: The collectivisation of farms, factories, and capital goods was carried out as part of the establishment of central planning, with millions of people working for state enterprises.
vietnam: Fish sauce, soy sauce, prawn sauce, and limes are among the main flavouring ingredients.
vietnam: Many elements of the nation's culture have Chinese origins, drawing on elements of Confucianism, Mahāyāna Buddhism, and Taoism in its traditional political system and philosophy.
vietnam: By 2015, 97% of the population had access to improved water sources.
vietnam: Although Vietnam remains officially committed to socialism as its defining creed, external observers have stated its economic policies have grown increasingly capitalist, with The Economist characterising its leadership as "ardently capitalist communists".
vietnam: In September 2018, the Hanoi People's Committee urged the citizens of the country to stop eating dog and cat meat as it can cause diseases like rabies and leptospirosis.
vietnam: Further inland, the country's extensive network of rivers plays a key role in rural transportation with over 47,130 kilometres (29,290 mi) of navigable waterways carrying ferries, barges, and water taxis.
vietnam: The president is the elected head of state and the commander-in-chief of the military, serving as the chairman of the Council of Supreme Defence and Security, and holds the second highest office in Vietnam as well as performing executive functions and state appointments and setting policy.
vietnam: Traditional Vietnamese cooking is known for its fresh ingredients, minimal use of oil, and reliance on herbs and vegetables; it is considered one of the healthiest cuisines worldwide.
