virus: Antibodies can continue to be an effective defence mechanism even after viruses have managed to gain entry to the host cell.
virus: Many viruses have a replication strategy that involves double-stranded RNA (dsRNA).
virus: Orthomyxoviruses, Rhabdoviruses)
VI: ssRNA-RT viruses (+ strand or sense) RNA with DNA intermediate in life-cycle (e.g.
virus: Instead, they use the machinery and metabolism of a host cell to produce multiple copies of themselves, and they assemble in the cell.
virus: The rate or speed of transmission of viral infections depends on factors that include population density, the number of susceptible individuals (i.e., those not immune), the quality of healthcare and the weather.
virus: The study of viruses is known as virology, a subspeciality of microbiology.
virus: Several highly lethal viral pathogens are members of the Filoviridae.
virus: Some filoviruses, which are filaments, have a total length of up to 1400 nm; their diameters are only about 80 nm.
virus: Plant viruses cannot infect humans and other animals because they can reproduce only in living plant cells.
virus: They infect and destroy bacteria in aquatic microbial communities, and are one of the most important mechanisms of recycling carbon and nutrient cycling in marine environments.
virus: The capsid appears hexagonal under an electron microscope, therefore the capsid is probably icosahedral.
virus: Having completed successful clinical trials, the virus gained approval for the treatment of melanoma in late 2015.
virus: The victims were often healthy young adults, in contrast to most influenza outbreaks, which predominantly affect juvenile, elderly, or otherwise-weakened patients.
virus: The development of cancer is determined by a variety of factors such as host immunity and mutations in the host.
virus: In populations with a high proportion of carriers, the disease is said to be endemic.
virus: Other antiviral drugs in use target different stages of the viral life cycle.
virus: When they are infected, plants often produce natural disinfectants that kill viruses, such as salicylic acid, nitric oxide, and reactive oxygen molecules.
virus: Such viruses are called attenuated.
virus: Some viruses can cause lifelong or chronic infections, where the viruses continue to replicate in the body despite the host's defence mechanisms.
virus: Since Dmitri Ivanovsky's 1892 article describing a non-bacterial pathogen infecting tobacco plants and the discovery of the tobacco mosaic virus by Martinus Beijerinck in 1898, more than 16,000 of the millions of virus species have been described in detail.
virus: The subsequent discovery and partial characterization of bacteriophages by Frederick Twort and Félix d'Herelle further catalyzed the field, and by the early 20th century many viruses had been discovered.
virus: Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) are caused by new types of coronaviruses.
virus: Although hepatitis delta virus genome may replicate independently once inside a host cell, it requires the help of hepatitis B virus to provide a protein coat so that it can be transmitted to new cells.
virus: This is useful for making the cell produce a foreign substance, or to study the effect of introducing a new gene into the genome.
virus: Over time, genes not required by their parasitism were lost.
virus: These vaccines use only the capsid proteins of the virus.
virus: The most recently discovered human cancer virus is a polyomavirus (Merkel cell polyomavirus) that causes most cases of a rare form of skin cancer called Merkel cell carcinoma.
virus: Coronaviruses, Picornaviruses, Togaviruses)
V: (−)ssRNA viruses (− strand or antisense) RNA (e.g.
virus: Cancer viruses come from a range of virus families, including both RNA and DNA viruses, and so there is no single type of "oncovirus" (an obsolete term originally used for acutely transforming retroviruses).
virus: There were about 770,000 deaths from AIDS in 2018.
virus: All RNA viruses use their own RNA replicase enzymes to create copies of their genomes.
virus: The smallest—the ssDNA circoviruses, family Circoviridae—code for only two proteins and have a genome size of only two kilobases; the largest—the pandoraviruses—have genome sizes of around two megabases which code for about 2500 proteins.
virus: These persistent viruses evade immune control by sequestration, blockade of antigen presentation, cytokine resistance, evasion of natural killer cell activities, escape from apoptosis, and antigenic shift.
virus: Uncoating is a process in which the viral capsid is removed: This may be by degradation by viral enzymes or host enzymes or by simple dissociation; the end-result is the releasing of the viral genomic nucleic acid.
virus: For example, viruses have been useful in the study of genetics and helped our understanding of the basic mechanisms of molecular genetics, such as DNA replication, transcription, RNA processing, translation, protein transport, and immunology.
virus: For RNA viruses, each segment often codes for only one protein and they are usually found together in one capsid.
virus: In 80% of people infected, the disease is chronic, and without treatment, they are infected for the remainder of their lives.
virus: These are usually insects, but some fungi, nematode worms, single-celled organisms, and parasitic plants are vectors.
virus: To control the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in cattle in Britain in 2001, thousands of cattle were slaughtered.
virus: The study and use of viruses have provided valuable information about aspects of cell biology.
virus: This is known as "escape mutation" as the viral epitopes escape recognition by the host immune response.
virus: Such quasispecies are a prime target for natural selection.
virus: Vaccines were used to prevent viral infections long before the discovery of the actual viruses.
virus: IgG antibody is measured when tests for immunity are carried out.
virus: Provisionally named Megavirus chilensis, it can be seen with a basic optical microscope.
virus: For most viruses with RNA genomes and some with single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) genomes, the single strands are said to be either positive-sense (called the 'plus-strand') or negative-sense (called the 'minus-strand'), depending on if they are complementary to the viral messenger RNA (mRNA).
virus: Most researchers believe that HIV originated in sub-Saharan Africa during the 20th century; it is now a pandemic, with an estimated 37.9 million people now living with the disease worldwide.
virus: It is important to find the source, or sources, of the outbreak and to identify the virus.
virus: When virions are coated with stain (positive staining), fine detail is obscured.
virus: Plant virus particles can be modified genetically and chemically to encapsulate foreign material and can be incorporated into supramolecular structures for use in biotechnology.
virus: Overall, the length of a helical capsid is related to the length of the nucleic acid contained within it, and the diameter is dependent on the size and arrangement of capsomeres.
virus: Microorganisms constitute more than 90% of the biomass in the sea.
virus: Release – Viruses can be released from the host cell by lysis, a process that kills the cell by bursting its membrane and cell wall if present: this is a feature of many bacterial and some animal viruses.
virus: For example, HIV infects a limited range of human leucocytes.
virus: I: dsDNA viruses (e.g.
virus: Penetration or viral entry follows attachment: Virions enter the host cell through receptor-mediated endocytosis or membrane fusion.
virus: This is common in hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus infections.
virus: To achieve this, the capsomeres at the apices are surrounded by five other capsomeres and are called pentons.
virus: Many viruses spread in the air by coughing and sneezing, including influenza viruses, SARS-CoV-2, chickenpox, smallpox, and measles.
virus: Enveloped viruses (e.g., HIV) typically are released from the host cell by budding.
virus: In addition, ssRNA viruses may be either sense (+) or antisense (−).
virus: These are solutions of salts of heavy metals, such as tungsten, that scatter the electrons from regions covered with the stain.
virus: Complex viruses code for proteins that assist in the construction of their capsid.
virus: Some RNA viruses, for example retroviruses, have a stage in their replication cycle where the genome is encoded in DNA.
virus: They therefore cannot naturally reproduce outside a host cell—although some bacteria such as rickettsia and chlamydia are considered living organisms despite the same limitation.
virus: Regressive hypothesis
Viruses may have once been small cells that parasitised larger cells.
virus: Like any organism, marine mammals are susceptible to viral infections.
virus: The potato virus Y causes disease in potatoes and related species including tomatoes and peppers.
virus: Bacteria, like plants, have strong cell walls that a virus must breach to infect the cell.
virus: In similar manner, the sputnik virophage is dependent on mimivirus, which infects the protozoan Acanthamoeba castellanii.
virus: People chronically infected are known as carriers, as they serve as reservoirs of infectious virus.
virus: Bacteriophages are a common and diverse group of viruses and are the most abundant biological entity in aquatic environments—there are up to ten times more of these viruses in the oceans than there are bacteria, reaching levels of 250,000,000 bacteriophages per millilitre of seawater.
virus: The whole virion is slightly pleomorphic, ranging from ovoid to brick-shaped.
virus: Media related to Viruses at Wikimedia Commons
 Data related to Virus at Wikispecies
ViralZone A Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics resource for all viral families, providing general molecular and epidemiological information
virus: To date, such analyses have not proved which of these hypotheses is correct.
virus: The life-cycle of the virus is then halted because the newly synthesised DNA is inactive.
virus: These include a process called antigenic drift where individual bases in the DNA or RNA mutate to other bases.
virus: Marburg virus, first discovered in 1967, attracted widespread press attention in April 2005 for an outbreak in Angola.
virus: As of 2022, the ranks of subrealm, subkingdom, and subclass are unused, whereas all other ranks are in use.
virus: Some, such as smallpox virus for example, can infect only one species—in this case humans, and are said to have a narrow host range.
virus: Examples include the work at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C., using Cowpea mosaic virus (CPMV) particles to amplify signals in DNA microarray based sensors.
virus: Instead, their DNA is incorporated with the host cell's as a prophage.
virus: Ebola virus disease has also caused intermittent outbreaks with high mortality rates since 1976 when it was first identified.
virus: This causes persistent infections and the virus is often dormant for many months or years.
virus: Virus genes rarely have introns and often are arranged in the genome so that they overlap.
virus: All giant viruses have dsDNA genomes and they are classified into several families: Mimiviridae, Pithoviridae, Pandoraviridae, Phycodnaviridae, and the Mollivirus genus.
virus: Replication of viruses involves primarily multiplication of the genome.
virus: HIV evades the immune system by constantly changing the amino acid sequence of the proteins on the surface of the virion.
virus: The number of viruses in the oceans decreases further offshore and deeper into the water, where there are fewer host organisms.
virus: The virus has an outer envelope with a thick layer of protein studded over its surface.
virus: These "emergent" viruses are usually mutants of less harmful viruses that have circulated previously either in humans or other animals.
virus: Most of these point mutations are "silent"—they do not change the protein that the gene encodes—but others can confer evolutionary advantages such as resistance to antiviral drugs.
virus: The virus particles of some virus families, such as those belonging to the Hepadnaviridae, contain a genome that is partially double-stranded and partially single-stranded.
virus: Many other viruses, including caliciviruses, herpesviruses, adenoviruses and parvoviruses, circulate in marine mammal populations.
virus: The bacteria rickettsia and chlamydia are living cells that, like viruses, can reproduce only inside host cells.
virus: When the adaptive immune system of a vertebrate encounters a virus, it produces specific antibodies that bind to the virus and often render it non-infectious.
virus: These viruses, which are dependent on the presence of other virus species in the host cell, are called "satellites" and may represent evolutionary intermediates of viroids and viruses.
virus: The body's cells constantly display short fragments of their proteins on the cell's surface, and, if a T cell recognises a suspicious viral fragment there, the host cell is destroyed by 'killer T' cells and the virus-specific T-cells proliferate.
virus: Most types of viruses are restricted to just one or two of these mechanisms and they are referred to as "respiratory viruses" or "enteric viruses" and so forth.
virus: An enormous variety of genomic structures can be seen among viral species; as a group, they contain more structural genomic diversity than plants, animals, archaea, or bacteria.
virus: HIV is dependent on a proteolytic enzyme called the HIV-1 protease for it to become fully infectious.
virus: The relative ability of viruses to cause disease is described in terms of virulence.
virus: Additionally, some species within the same genus are grouped into a genogroup.
virus: Complex
These viruses possess a capsid that is neither purely helical nor purely icosahedral, and that may possess extra structures such as protein tails or a complex outer wall.
virus: In general, viruses are much smaller than bacteria and more than a thousand bacteriophage viruses would fit inside an Escherichia coli bacterium's cell.
virus: The adjective viral dates to 1948.
virus: RNA interference is an important innate defence against viruses.
virus: RNA viruses can be placed into four different groups depending on their modes of replication.
virus: When infected, a host cell is often forced to rapidly produce thousands of copies of the original virus.
virus: Once called "jumping genes", transposons are examples of mobile genetic elements and could be the origin of some viruses.
virus: A pandemic is a worldwide epidemic.
virus: There is a large class of drugs called protease inhibitors that inactivate this enzyme.
virus: Capsomeres on the triangular faces are surrounded by six others and are called hexons.
virus: In 1962, André Lwoff, Robert Horne, and Paul Tournier were the first to develop a means of virus classification, based on the Linnaean hierarchical system.
virus: The production of interferon is an important host defence mechanism.
virus: The first attested use of "virus" in English appeared in 1398 in John Trevisa's translation of Bartholomeus Anglicus's De Proprietatibus Rerum.
virus: Horizontal transmission can occur when body fluids are exchanged during sexual activity, by exchange of saliva or when contaminated food or water is ingested.
virus: The SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus that caused the COVID-19 pandemic is an example of a novel virus.
virus: These enzymes, called restriction endonucleases, cut up the viral DNA that bacteriophages inject into bacterial cells.
virus: During the 20th century there were four pandemics caused by influenza virus and those that occurred in 1918, 1957 and 1968 were severe.
virus: The polarity (whether or not it can be used directly by ribosomes to make proteins) of single-stranded RNA viruses largely determines the replicative mechanism; the other major criterion is whether the genetic material is single-stranded or double-stranded.
virus: The powerful techniques developed by life sciences are becoming the basis of engineering approaches towards nanomaterials, opening a wide range of applications far beyond biology and medicine.
virus: Viroids are molecules of RNA that are not classified as viruses because they lack a protein coat.
virus: These proteins go on to become either new virions within the cell, helper proteins, which help assembly of new virions, or proteins involved in cell lysis.
virus: Segmented genomes confer evolutionary advantages; different strains of a virus with a segmented genome can shuffle and combine genes and produce progeny viruses (or offspring) that have unique characteristics.
virus: There are only two centres in the world authorised by the WHO to keep stocks of smallpox virus: the State Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology VECTOR in Russia and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States.
virus: Examples of common human diseases caused by viruses include the common cold, influenza, chickenpox, and cold sores.
virus: These viruses have been studied in most detail in the thermophilic archaea, particularly the orders Sulfolobales and Thermoproteales.
virus: Martinus Beijerinck called the filtered, infectious substance a "virus" and this discovery is considered to be the beginning of virology.
virus: For many virus families the naked synthetic DNA or RNA (once enzymatically converted back from the synthetic cDNA) is infectious when introduced into a cell.
virus: Live vaccines can be dangerous when given to people with a weak immunity (who are described as immunocompromised), because in these people, the weakened virus can cause the original disease.
virus: Although the living versus non-living debate continues, the virocell model has gained some acceptance.
virus: Norovirus and rotavirus, common causes of viral gastroenteritis, are transmitted by the faecal–oral route, passed by hand-to-mouth contact or in food or water.
virus: The yellow fever virus vaccine, a live-attenuated strain called 17D, is probably the safest and most effective vaccine ever generated.
virus: In December 2022, scientists reported the first observation of virovory via an experiment on pond water containing chlorovirus, which commonly infects green algae in freshwater environments.
virus: Two types of antibodies are important.
virus: This arrangement results in virions which can be short and highly rigid rods, or long and very flexible filaments.
virus: Their life cycle differs greatly between species, but there are six basic stages in their life cycle:
Attachment is a specific binding between viral capsid proteins and specific receptors on the host cellular surface.
virus: Reverse transcribing viruses
Reverse transcribing viruses have ssRNA (Retroviridae, Metaviridae, Pseudoviridae) or dsDNA (Caulimoviridae, and Hepadnaviridae) in their particles.
virus: When control of plant virus infections is considered economical, for perennial fruits, for example, efforts are concentrated on killing the vectors and removing alternate hosts such as weeds.
virus: Filoviruses are filament-like viruses that cause viral hemorrhagic fever, and include ebolaviruses and marburgviruses.
virus: This comprises cells and other mechanisms that defend the host from infection in a non-specific manner.
virus: It is, therefore, a defective virus.
virus: It may be used as a weapon, as the vaccine for smallpox sometimes had severe side-effects, it is no longer used routinely in any country.
virus: Vaccines can consist of live-attenuated or killed viruses, viral proteins (antigens), or RNA.
virus: Other diseases are under investigation to discover if they have a virus as the causative agent, such as the possible connection between human herpesvirus 6 (HHV6) and neurological diseases such as multiple sclerosis and chronic fatigue syndrome.
virus: A biochemical pathway—the RISC complex—is activated, which ensures cell survival by degrading the viral mRNA.
virus: Negative staining overcomes this problem by staining the background only.
virus: The smallpox virus devastated numerous societies throughout history before its eradication.
virus: The viruses that infect plants are harmless to animals, and most viruses that infect other animals are harmless to humans.
virus: The virocell model first proposed by Patrick Forterre considers the infected cell to be the "living form" of viruses and that virus particles (virions) are analogous to spores.
virus: The general taxonomic structure of taxon ranges and the suffixes used in taxonomic names are shown hereafter.
virus: Hepatitis viruses can develop into a chronic viral infection that leads to liver cancer.
virus: Somewhat overlapping, but mainly following the incubation period, there is a period of communicability—a time when an infected individual or animal is contagious and can infect another person or animal.
virus: Hepatitis C is caused by an RNA virus.
virus: The infection of plant and fungal cells is different from that of animal cells.
virus: Viral populations do not grow through cell division, because they are acellular.
virus: These enable archaea to retain sections of viral DNA, which are then used to target and eliminate subsequent infections by the virus using a process similar to RNA interference.
virus: When outbreaks cause an unusually high proportion of cases in a population, community, or region, they are called epidemics.
virus: A virus has either a DNA or an RNA genome and is called a DNA virus or an RNA virus, respectively.
virus: As of January 2021, the NCBI Virus genome database has more than 193,000 complete genome sequences, but there are doubtlessly many more to be discovered.
virus: Proteins associated with nucleic acid are known as nucleoproteins, and the association of viral capsid proteins with viral nucleic acid is called a nucleocapsid.
virus: This genetic system provides bacteria with acquired immunity to infection.
virus: The viral genome is mostly silent within the host.
virus: Viruses undergo genetic change by several mechanisms.
virus: This is a hormone produced by the body when viruses are present.
virus: Viruses are important pathogens of livestock.
virus: Classification seeks to describe the diversity of viruses by naming and grouping them on the basis of similarities.
virus: Merkel cell polyomavirus closely related to SV40 and mouse polyomaviruses that have been used as animal models for cancer viruses for over 50 years.
virus: That is, they contain all the necessary information to produce new viruses.
virus: Vīrus comes from the same Indo-European root as Sanskrit वि॒ष (viṣa), and Ancient Greek ἰός (iós), which all mean 'poison'.
virus: Some viruses, such as Epstein–Barr virus, can cause cells to proliferate without causing malignancy, while others, such as papillomaviruses, are established causes of cancer.
virus: Other viruses, called 'neurotropic viruses', are disseminated by neural spread where the immune system may be unable to reach them due to immune privilege.
virus: Viral activity may also affect the biological pump, the process whereby carbon is sequestered in the deep ocean.
virus: Influenza virus, HIV (which causes AIDS), and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (which causes COVID-19) use this strategy.
virus: Viruses must generate mRNAs from their genomes to produce proteins and replicate themselves, but different mechanisms are used to achieve this in each virus family.
virus: DNA viruses
The genome replication of most DNA viruses takes place in the cell's nucleus.
virus: In 2007 there were 2.7 million new HIV infections and 2 million HIV-related deaths.
virus: In 1892, Dmitri Ivanovsky used one of these filters to show that sap from a diseased tobacco plant remained infectious to healthy tobacco plants despite having been filtered.
virus: This can occur when viruses infect cells simultaneously and studies of viral evolution have shown that recombination has been rampant in the species studied.
virus: This means that the cells of the innate system recognise, and respond to, pathogens in a generic way, but, unlike the adaptive immune system, it does not confer long-lasting or protective immunity to the host.
virus: The nucleoid is surrounded by a membrane and two lateral bodies of unknown function.
virus: Unprecedented restrictions in peacetime were placed on international travel, and curfews were imposed in several major cities worldwide in response to the pandemic.
virus: Within a short amount of time, in some cases, just minutes, bacterial polymerase starts translating viral mRNA into protein.
virus: Viruses are still one of the largest reservoirs of unexplored genetic diversity on Earth.
virus: A complete virus particle, known as a virion, consists of nucleic acid surrounded by a protective coat of protein called a capsid.
virus: Most viruses have RNA genomes.
virus: Originally from Peru, the potato has become a staple crop worldwide.
virus: In contrast, DNA viruses generally have larger genomes because of the high fidelity of their replication enzymes.
virus: These are called 'cytopathic effects'.
virus: Other coronaviruses are known to cause mild infections in humans, so the virulence and rapid spread of SARS infections—that by July 2003 had caused around 8,000 cases and 800 deaths—was unexpected and most countries were not prepared.
virus: Realm (-viria)
Subrealm (-vira)
Kingdom (-virae)
Subkingdom (-virites)
Phylum (-viricota)
Subphylum (-viricotina)
Class (-viricetes)
Subclass (-viricetidae)
Order (-virales)
Suborder (-virineae)
Family (-viridae)
Subfamily (-virinae)
Genus (-virus)
Subgenus (-virus)
Species
virus: Subunit vaccines are safe for immunocompromised patients because they cannot cause the disease.
virus: Most enveloped viruses are dependent on the envelope for their infectivity.
virus: An example would include the ability of the herpes simplex virus, which causes cold sores, to remain in a dormant state within the human body.
virus: Most viral infections of humans and other animals have incubation periods during which the infection causes no signs or symptoms.
virus: This discovery has led modern virologists to reconsider and re-evaluate these three classical hypotheses.
virus: Geneticists often use viruses as vectors to introduce genes into cells that they are studying.
virus: They have been described as "organisms at the edge of life", since they resemble organisms in that they possess genes, evolve by natural selection, and reproduce by creating multiple copies of themselves through self-assembly.
virus: Except for smallpox, most pandemics are caused by newly evolved viruses.
virus: The body's first line of defence against viruses is the innate immune system.
virus: Replication of the genome is catalyzed by an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.
virus: Viral enzymes aid in the breakdown of the cell membrane, and, in the case of the T4 phage, in just over twenty minutes after injection over three hundred phages could be released.
virus: Canine parvovirus is caused by a small DNA virus and infections are often fatal in pups.
virus: The shapes of these virus particles range from simple helical and icosahedral forms to more complex structures.
virus: Viruses are considered by some biologists to be a life form, because they carry genetic material, reproduce, and evolve through natural selection, although they lack some key characteristics, such as cell structure, that are generally considered necessary criteria for defining life.
virus: A related coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), thought to have originated in bats, emerged in Wuhan, China in November 2019 and spread rapidly around the world.
virus: In 2013, the Pandoravirus genus was discovered in Chile and Australia, and has genomes about twice as large as Megavirus and Mimivirus.
virus: Although somewhat of a misconception, it is not the actual virus that is synthesised, but rather its DNA genome (in case of a DNA virus), or a cDNA copy of its genome (in case of RNA viruses).
virus: Viral genomes are circular, as in the polyomaviruses, or linear, as in the adenoviruses.
virus: In addition, viral genetic material occasionally integrates into the germline of the host organisms, by which they can be passed on vertically to the offspring of the host for many generations.
virus: Icosahedral
Most animal viruses are icosahedral or near-spherical with chiral icosahedral symmetry.
virus: Coronaviruses have a single-strand positive-sense RNA genome.
virus: Immune responses can also be produced by vaccines, which confer an artificially acquired immunity to the specific viral infection.
virus: If outbreaks spread worldwide, they are called pandemics.
virus: Human papillomaviruses are an established cause of cancers of cervix, skin, anus, and penis.
virus: As of June 2021, the full-length genome sequences of 11,464 different viruses, including smallpox, are publicly available in an online database maintained by the National Institutes of Health.
virus: The dendritic cells process the dead cancer cells and present components of them to other cells of the immune system.
virus: HIV is one of several viruses transmitted through sexual contact and by exposure to infected blood.
virus: The well-studied tobacco mosaic virusand inovirus are examples of helical viruses.
virus: Many viruses, such as rotavirus, have more than 60 capsomers and appear spherical but they retain this symmetry.
virus: Parvoviruses)
III: dsRNA viruses (e.g.
virus: If the cell has the appropriate receptor on its surface, these viruses enter the cell either by direct fusion with the cell membrane (e.g., herpesviruses) or—more usually—by receptor-mediated endocytosis.
virus: The poxviruses are large, complex viruses that have an unusual morphology.
virus: In multicellular organisms, if enough cells die, the whole organism will start to suffer the effects.
virus: As such, the Baltimore classification system has come to be used to supplement the more traditional hierarchy.
virus: These are formed from protein subunits called capsomeres.
virus: Often cell death is caused by cessation of its normal activities because of suppression by virus-specific proteins, not all of which are components of the virus particle.
virus: This membrane is studded with proteins coded for by the viral genome and host genome; the lipid membrane itself and any carbohydrates present originate entirely from the host.
virus: This is called latency and is a characteristic of the herpes viruses, including Epstein–Barr virus, which causes glandular fever, and varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox and shingles.
virus: Plants have a rigid cell wall made of cellulose, and fungi one of chitin, so most viruses can get inside these cells only after trauma to the cell wall.
virus: This provides an invaluable source of information for paleovirologists to trace back ancient viruses that existed as far back as millions of years ago.
virus: Several classes of antiviral drugs have been developed and around 100 individual antiviral drugs or combinations of them are used worldwide.
virus: Several types of ssDNA and ssRNA viruses have genomes that are ambisense in that transcription can occur off both strands in a double-stranded replicative intermediate.
virus: The viral genome is then known as a "provirus" or, in the case of bacteriophages a "prophage".
virus: The causes of death include cell lysis, alterations to the cell's surface membrane and apoptosis.
virus: The origins of viruses in the evolutionary history of life are still unclear.
virus: The evidence for an ancestral world of RNA cells and computer analysis of viral and host DNA sequences give a better understanding of the evolutionary relationships between different viruses and may help identify the ancestors of modern viruses.
virus: Whenever the host divides, the viral genome is also replicated.
virus: A viral genome, irrespective of nucleic acid type, is almost always either single-stranded (ss) or double-stranded (ds).
virus: Examples of nucleoside analogues are aciclovir for Herpes simplex virus infections and lamivudine for HIV and hepatitis B virus infections.
virus: The hepatitis delta virus of humans has an RNA genome similar to viroids but has a protein coat derived from hepatitis B virus and cannot produce one of its own.
virus: Most virus infections eventually result in the death of the host cell.
virus: Talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC), for example, is a modified herpes simplex virus that has had a gene, which is required for viruses to replicate in healthy cells, deleted and replaced with a human gene (GM-CSF) that stimulates immunity.
virus: Some bacteriophages, such as Enterobacteria phage T4, have a complex structure consisting of an icosahedral head bound to a helical tail, which may have a hexagonal base plate with protruding protein tail fibres.
virus: Examples include geminiviruses, which are ssDNA plant viruses and arenaviruses, which are ssRNA viruses of animals.
virus: This can be a result of recombination or reassortment.
virus: They have characteristics that are common to several viruses and are often called subviral agents.
virus: When infected, the host cell is forced to rapidly produce thousands of copies of the original virus.
virus: Hexons are in essence flat and pentons, which form the 12 vertices, are curved.
virus: Their genomic dsRNA remains protected inside the core of the virion.
virus: Viruses that have been reprogrammed to kill cancer cells are called oncolytic viruses.
virus: It shows promising use in the treatment of cancer and in gene therapy.
virus: All segments are not required to be in the same virion for the virus to be infectious, as demonstrated by brome mosaic virus and several other plant viruses.
virus: They lend support to this hypothesis, as their dependence on parasitism is likely to have caused the loss of genes that enabled them to survive outside a cell.
virus: The mechanism of recombination used by coronaviruses likely involves template switching by the polymerase during genome replication.
virus: This is sometimes called the "vagrancy hypothesis", or the "escape hypothesis".
virus: Most virus species have virions too small to be seen with an optical microscope and are one-hundredth the size of most bacteria.
virus: It is estimated that viruses kill approximately 20% of this biomass each day and that there are 10 to 15 times as many viruses in the oceans as there are bacteria and archaea.
virus: The capsid is made from proteins encoded by the viral genome and its shape serves as the basis for morphological distinction.
virus: Only a small part of the total diversity of viruses has been studied.
virus: Viruses have different mechanisms by which they produce disease in an organism, which depends largely on the viral species.
virus: The treatment of chronic carriers of the hepatitis B virus has also been developed by using similar strategies that include lamivudine and other anti-viral drugs.
virus: When this virus infects cancer cells, it destroys them and in doing so the presence of GM-CSF gene attracts dendritic cells from the surrounding tissues of the body.
virus: Many serious diseases such as rabies, Ebola virus disease, AIDS (HIV), avian influenza, and SARS are caused by viruses.
virus: This is called reassortment or 'viral sex'.
virus: The term virion (plural virions), which dates from 1959, is also used to refer to a single viral particle that is released from the cell and is capable of infecting other cells of the same type.
virus: During this process, the virus acquires its envelope, which is a modified piece of the host's plasma or other, internal membrane.
virus: It seems unlikely that all currently known viruses have a common ancestor, and viruses have probably arisen numerous times in the past by one or more mechanisms.
virus: Although viruses cause disruption of healthy homeostasis, resulting in disease, they may exist relatively harmlessly within an organism.
virus: Viruses are important to the study of molecular and cell biology as they provide simple systems that can be used to manipulate and investigate the functions of cells.
virus: There are about ten million of them in a teaspoon of seawater.
virus: The most effective medical approaches to viral diseases are vaccinations to provide immunity to infection, and antiviral drugs that selectively interfere with viral replication.
virus: This technology is now being used to investigate novel vaccine strategies.
virus: Plant viruses tend to have single-stranded RNA genomes and bacteriophages tend to have double-stranded DNA genomes.
virus: Retroviruses)
VII: dsDNA-RT viruses DNA with RNA intermediate in life-cycle (e.g.
virus: The size and shape of viruses and the number and nature of the functional groups on their surface are precisely defined.
virus: Other archaeal viruses resemble the tailed bacteriophages, and can have multiple tail structures.
virus: Transmission of viruses can be vertical, which means from mother to child, or horizontal, which means from person to person.
virus: Viral genomes may be single-stranded (ss) or double-stranded (ds), RNA or DNA, and may or may not use reverse transcriptase (RT).
virus: Nearly all plant viruses (such as tobacco mosaic virus) can also move directly from cell to cell, in the form of single-stranded nucleoprotein complexes, through pores called plasmodesmata.
virus: Most viruses cannot be seen with an optical microscope, so scanning and transmission electron microscopes are used to visualise them.
virus: Viroids are significant pathogens of plants.
virus: Co-evolution hypothesis
This is also called the "virus-first" hypothesis" and proposes that viruses may have evolved from complex molecules of protein and nucleic acid at the same time that cells first appeared on Earth and would have been dependent on cellular life for billions of years.
virus: Single-strand DNA viruses are an exception to this rule, as mutation rates for these genomes can approach the extreme of the ssRNA virus case.
virus: Their use has resulted in a dramatic decline in morbidity (illness) and mortality (death) associated with viral infections such as polio, measles, mumps and rubella.
virus: To compensate, RNA viruses often have segmented genomes—the genome is split into smaller molecules—thus reducing the chance that an error in a single-component genome will incapacitate the entire genome.
virus: The worst and most recent one is the 2013–2016 West Africa epidemic.
virus: Thus, much of the modern human population has almost no established resistance to smallpox and would be vulnerable to the virus.
virus: Positive-sense viral RNA is in the same sense as viral mRNA and thus at least a part of it can be immediately translated by the host cell.
virus: One of the most effective is the presence of so-called resistance (R) genes.
virus: Other viruses, such as rabies virus, can infect different species of mammals and are said to have a broad range.
virus: The Influenza A virus is highly prone to reassortment; occasionally this has resulted in novel strains which have caused pandemics.
virus: Smallpox infections have been eradicated.
virus: Incubation periods for viral diseases range from a few days to weeks, but are known for most infections.
virus: The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and the World Health Organization (WHO) estimate that AIDS has killed more than 25 million people since it was first recognised on 5 June 1981, making it one of the most destructive epidemics in recorded history.
virus: Cells such as the macrophage are specialists at this antigen presentation.
virus: Its role in immunity is complex; it eventually stops the viruses from reproducing by killing the infected cell and its close neighbours.
virus: Viruses do not have their own metabolism and require a host cell to make new products.
virus: Eastern European scientists have used phage therapy as an alternative to antibiotics for some time, and interest in this approach is increasing, because of the high level of antibiotic resistance now found in some pathogenic bacteria.
virus: Not all virus infections produce a protective immune response in this way.
virus: Most of these viruses are bacteriophages infecting heterotrophic bacteria and cyanophages infecting cyanobacteria and they are essential to the regulation of saltwater and freshwater ecosystems.
virus: Antiviral drugs are often nucleoside analogues (fake DNA building-blocks), which viruses mistakenly incorporate into their genomes during replication.
virus: This is called DNA chain termination.
virus: Viruses were grouped according to their shared properties (not those of their hosts) and the type of nucleic acid forming their genomes.
virus: The English word "virus" comes from the Latin word vīrus, which refers to poison and other noxious liquids.
virus: It can be an emergent virus, one that represents a new virus, but it can also be an extant virus that has not been previously identified.
virus: The second, called IgG, is produced indefinitely.
virus: Another, more rare, example is the varicella zoster virus, which, although causing relatively mild infections in children and adults, can be fatal to the foetus and newborn baby.
virus: There are millions of different types of viruses, and 16,215 species have been defined.
virus: Viruses are also major agents responsible for the destruction of phytoplankton including harmful algal blooms.
virus: Mechanisms at the cellular level primarily include cell lysis, the breaking open and subsequent death of the cell.
virus: In evolution, viruses are an important means of horizontal gene transfer, which increases genetic diversity in a way analogous to sexual reproduction.
virus: The ICTV classification system is used in conjunction with the Baltimore classification system in modern virus classification.
virus: Some viruses may have evolved from plasmids, which are pieces of DNA that can move between cells.
virus: This is also called the "degeneracy hypothesis", or "reduction hypothesis".
virus: Hepadnaviruses)
virus: Some viruses that infect Archaea have complex structures unrelated to any other form of virus, with a wide variety of unusual shapes, ranging from spindle-shaped structures to viruses that resemble hooked rods, teardrops or even bottles.
virus: Some viruses, including those that cause HIV/AIDS, HPV infection, and viral hepatitis, evade these immune responses and result in chronic infections.
virus: Within the Herpesviridae, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus causes Kaposi's sarcoma and body-cavity lymphoma, and Epstein–Barr virus causes Burkitt's lymphoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, B lymphoproliferative disorder, and nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
virus: Viruses display a wide diversity of sizes and shapes, called 'morphologies'.
virus: Although first observed in bacteriophages, many other viruses are known to form proviruses including HIV.
virus: Often, infected people are isolated from the rest of the community, and those that have been exposed to the virus are placed in quarantine.
virus: The Baltimore classification of viruses is based on the mechanism of mRNA production.
virus: Assembly – Following the structure-mediated self-assembly of the virus particles, some modification of the proteins often occurs.
virus: The first, called IgM, is highly effective at neutralising viruses but is produced by the cells of the immune system only for a few weeks.
virus: The expression of heterologous proteins by viruses is the basis of several manufacturing processes that are currently being used for the production of various proteins such as vaccine antigens and antibodies.
virus: The 1918 flu pandemic, which lasted until 1919, was a category 5 influenza pandemic caused by an unusually severe and deadly influenza A virus.
virus: Biotechnology and genetic engineering techniques are used to produce subunit vaccines.
virus: Enveloped
Some species of virus envelop themselves in a modified form of one of the cell membranes, either the outer membrane surrounding an infected host cell or internal membranes such as a nuclear membrane or endoplasmic reticulum, thus gaining an outer lipid bilayer known as a viral envelope.
virus: Starting in 2018, the ICTV began to acknowledge deeper evolutionary relationships between viruses that have been discovered over time and adopted a 15-rank classification system ranging from realm to species.
virus: Many viruses that have been studied are spherical and have a diameter between 20 and 300 nanometres.
virus: In eukaryotes, the viral genome must cross the cell's nuclear membrane to access this machinery, while in bacteria it need only enter the cell.
virus: Vaccination is a cheap and effective way of preventing infections by viruses.
virus: When such a virus infects a cell, it releases its RNA molecule or molecules, which immediately bind to a protein complex called a dicer that cuts the RNA into smaller pieces.
virus: Because they possess some but not all such qualities, viruses have been described as "organisms at the edge of life" and as replicators.
virus: In 2011, researchers discovered the largest then known virus in samples of water collected from the ocean floor off the coast of Las Cruces, Chile.
virus: The first synthetic virus was created in 2002.
virus: Negative-sense viral RNA is complementary to mRNA and thus must be converted to positive-sense RNA by an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase before translation.
virus: Some bacteriophages are called "temperate" because they cause latent infections and do not immediately destroy their host cells.
virus: RNA interference is also an effective defence in plants.
virus: Some viruses replicate within archaea: these are DNA viruses with unusual and sometimes unique shapes.
virus: Accepted forms of life use cell division to reproduce, whereas viruses spontaneously assemble within cells.
virus: In 1926, Thomas Milton Rivers defined viruses as obligate parasites.
virus: Cellular origin hypothesis
Some viruses may have evolved from bits of DNA or RNA that "escaped" from the genes of a larger organism.
virus: Double-stranded genomes consist of two complementary paired nucleic acids, analogous to a ladder.
virus: Transmitted by aphids, this virus can reduce crop yields by up to 80 per cent, causing significant losses to potato yields.
virus: The type of nucleic acid is irrelevant to the shape of the genome.
virus: Epidemiology is used to break the chain of infection in populations during outbreaks of viral diseases.
virus: In general, RNA viruses have smaller genome sizes than DNA viruses because of a higher error-rate when replicating, and have a maximum upper size limit.
virus: There are effective treatments that use direct-acting antivirals.
virus: The capsid and entire virus structure can be mechanically (physically) probed through atomic force microscopy.
virus: Infections with the virus caused the COVID-19 pandemic that started in 2020.
virus: A particular quality of viruses is that they can be tailored by directed evolution.
virus: They do not code for proteins but interact with the host cell and use the host machinery for their replication.
virus: As such, viruses are commonly used in materials science as scaffolds for covalently linked surface modifications.
virus: A virus is a submicroscopic infectious agent that replicates only inside the living cells of an organism.
virus: In particular, lysis of bacteria by viruses has been shown to enhance nitrogen cycling and stimulate phytoplankton growth.
virus: The system proposed by Lwoff, Horne and Tournier was initially not accepted by the ICTV because the small genome size of viruses and their high rate of mutation made it difficult to determine their ancestry beyond order.
virus: Viruses are the most abundant biological entity in aquatic environments.
virus: The English plural is viruses (sometimes also vira), whereas the Latin word is a mass noun, which has no classically attested plural (vīra is used in Neo-Latin).
virus: The minimum number of capsomeres required for each triangular face is 3, which gives 60 for the icosahedron.
virus: The distinction between cytopathic and harmless is gradual.
virus: This is because its surface protein, gp120, specifically interacts with the CD4 molecule—a chemokine receptor—which is most commonly found on the surface of CD4+ T-Cells.
virus: This classification places viruses into seven groups:
virus: At some point, the provirus or prophage may give rise to the active virus, which may lyse the host cells.
virus: Examples of vertical transmission include hepatitis B virus and HIV, where the baby is born already infected with the virus.
virus: Mimivirus is one of the largest characterised viruses, with a capsid diameter of 400 nm.
virus: In the 1980s, this virus acquired economical importance when it proved difficult to control in seed potato crops.
virus: RNA viruses
Replication of RNA viruses usually takes place in the cytoplasm.
virus: The first evidence of the existence of viruses came from experiments with filters that had pores small enough to retain bacteria.
virus: Viruses spread in many ways.
virus: As of 2024, 7 realms, 11 kingdoms, 22 phyla, 4 subphyla, 49 classes, 93 orders, 12 suborders, 368 families, 213 subfamilies, 3,769 genera, 86 subgenera, and 16,215 species of viruses have been defined by the ICTV.
virus: Bacteria also contain a system that uses CRISPR sequences to retain fragments of the genomes of viruses that the bacteria have come into contact with previously, which allows them to block the virus's replication through a form of RNA interference.
virus: Prolate
This is an icosahedron elongated along the fivefold axis and is a common arrangement of the heads of bacteriophages.
virus: Viruses are an established cause of cancer in humans and other species.
virus: Attachment to the receptor can induce the viral envelope protein to undergo changes that result in the fusion of viral and cellular membranes, or changes of non-enveloped virus surface proteins that allow the virus to enter.
virus: Similarly, virotherapy uses viruses as vectors to treat various diseases, as they can specifically target cells and DNA.
virus: The same protein may act as the subunit of both the pentamers and hexamers or they may be composed of different proteins.
virus: Industrial processes have been recently developed using viral vectors and several pharmaceutical proteins are currently in pre-clinical and clinical trials.
virus: Examples of the second type are the Hepadnaviridae, which includes Hepatitis B virus.
virus: This is called humoral immunity.
virus: This structure is composed of a cylinder with a cap at either end.
virus: This stops the infection from spreading.
virus: Virally-coded protein subunits will self-assemble to form a capsid, in general requiring the presence of the virus genome.
virus: They differ from autonomous growth of crystals as they inherit genetic mutations while being subject to natural selection.
virus: Virus self-assembly within host cells has implications for the study of the origin of life, as it lends further credence to the hypothesis that life could have started as self-assembling organic molecules.
virus: Diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease and bluetongue are caused by viruses.
virus: Aciclovir is one of the oldest and most frequently prescribed antiviral drugs.
virus: Viral cancers occur only in a minority of infected persons (or animals).
virus: Virulent, from Latin virulentus ('poisonous'), dates to c.
virus: Viruses are found wherever there is life and have probably existed since living cells first evolved.
virus: Recombination is common to both RNA and DNA viruses.
virus: They are susceptible to antiviral drugs that inhibit the reverse transcriptase enzyme, e.g.
virus: This is often the case with herpes viruses.
virus: Helical
These viruses are composed of a single type of capsomere stacked around a central axis to form a helical structure, which may have a central cavity, or tube.
virus: Plant viruses are often spread from plant to plant by organisms, known as vectors.
virus: This is because these analogues lack the hydroxyl groups, which, along with phosphorus atoms, link together to form the strong "backbone" of the DNA molecule.
virus: Hepatitis B vaccine is an example of this type of vaccine.
virus: When all other microbial food sources were removed from the water, the ciliate Halteria was observed to have increased in number due to the active consumption of chlorovirus as a food source instead of its typical bacterivore diet.
virus: To increase the contrast between viruses and the background, electron-dense "stains" are used.
virus: Cells in which the virus is latent and inactive show few signs of infection and often function normally.
virus: They infect all types of cellular life including animals, plants, bacteria and fungi.
virus: This, too, is known for many viral infections, and knowledge of the length of both periods is important in the control of outbreaks.
virus: The host range of some bacteriophages is limited to a single strain of bacteria and they can be used to trace the source of outbreaks of infections by a method called phage typing.
virus: A regular icosahedron is the optimum way of forming a closed shell from identical subunits.
virus: Given that bacterial cell walls are much thinner than plant cell walls due to their much smaller size, some viruses have evolved mechanisms that inject their genome into the bacterial cell across the cell wall, while the viral capsid remains outside.
virus: Infection by human T-lymphotropic virus can lead to tropical spastic paraparesis and adult T-cell leukaemia.
virus: These latent viruses might sometimes be beneficial, as the presence of the virus can increase immunity against bacterial pathogens, such as Yersinia pestis.
virus: Viruses are now recognised as ancient and as having origins that pre-date the divergence of life into the three domains.
virus: This may be followed, for complex viruses with larger genomes, by one or more further rounds of mRNA synthesis: "late" gene expression is, in general, of structural or virion proteins.
virus: Single-stranded genomes consist of an unpaired nucleic acid, analogous to one-half of a ladder split down the middle.
virus: Because of their size, shape, and well-defined chemical structures, viruses have been used as templates for organising materials on the nanoscale.
virus: One transmission pathway is through disease-bearing organisms known as vectors: for example, viruses are often transmitted from plant to plant by insects that feed on plant sap, such as aphids; and viruses in animals can be carried by blood-sucking insects.
virus: Viral infections in animals provoke an immune response that usually eliminates the infecting virus.
virus: Although they have genes, they do not have a cellular structure, which is often seen as the basic unit of life.
virus: zidovudine and lamivudine.
virus: The viral genome is associated with proteins within a central disc structure known as a nucleoid.
virus: This specificity determines the host range and type of host cell of a virus.
virus: The genetic material (typically single-stranded RNA, but single-stranded DNA in some cases) is bound into the protein helix by interactions between the negatively charged nucleic acid and positive charges on the protein.
virus: The Nobel Prize-winning biologist David Baltimore devised the Baltimore classification system.
virus: Most viruses co-exist harmlessly in their host and cause no signs or symptoms of disease.
virus: This mechanism has evolved to favour those viruses that infect only cells in which they are capable of replication.
virus: A second defence of vertebrates against viruses is called cell-mediated immunity and involves immune cells known as T cells.
virus: In 1988 and 2002, thousands of harbour seals were killed in Europe by phocine distemper virus.
virus: In 1966, the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) was formed.
virus: Their surface carries specific tools that enable them to cross the barriers of their host cells.
virus: The infectious dose of norovirus required to produce infection in humans is fewer than 100 particles.
virus: Once the virus has been identified, the chain of transmission can sometimes be broken by vaccines.
virus: Bacteriophages are harmless to plants and animals but they are important mortality agents of phytoplankton, the base of the foodchain in aquatic environments.
virus: There are around thirteen classes of antiviral drugs each targeting different viruses or stages of viral replication.
virus: Plant virus particles or virus-like particles (VLPs) have applications in both biotechnology and nanotechnology.
virus: They were discovered in maize by Barbara McClintock in 1950.
virus: This process appears to be an adaptation for coping with genome damage.
virus: Virotherapy involves the use of genetically modified viruses to treat diseases.
virus: The intestines of animals, including humans, contain temperate bacteriophages, which are activated by various stimuli including changes in diet and antibiotics.
virus: There is controversy over whether the bornavirus, previously thought to cause neurological diseases in horses, could be responsible for psychiatric illnesses in humans.
virus: Although viral pandemics are rare events, HIV—which evolved from viruses found in monkeys and chimpanzees—has been pandemic since at least the 1980s.
virus: In general, there are five main morphological virus types:
virus: Different types of viruses can infect only a limited range of hosts and many are species-specific.
virus: Among RNA viruses and certain DNA viruses, the genome is often divided into separate parts, in which case it is called segmented.
virus: Like all invertebrates, the honey bee is susceptible to many viral infections.
virus: Each R gene confers resistance to a particular virus by triggering localised areas of cell death around the infected cell, which can often be seen with the unaided eye as large spots.
virus: The variety of host cells that a virus can infect is called its host range: this is narrow for viruses specialized to infect only a few species, or broad for viruses capable of infecting many.
virus: The complete set of viruses in an organism or habitat is called the virome; for example, all human viruses constitute the human virome.
virus: Adenoviruses, Herpesviruses, Poxviruses)
II: ssDNA viruses (+ strand or "sense") DNA (e.g.
virus: The organic molecules released from the dead bacterial cells stimulate fresh bacterial and algal growth, in a process known as the viral shunt.
virus: Companion animals such as cats, dogs, and horses, if not vaccinated, are susceptible to serious viral infections.
virus: There are three main hypotheses that aim to explain the origins of viruses:
virus: The origin of viruses is unclear because they do not form fossils, so molecular techniques are used to infer how they arose.
virus: An example of the first type is HIV, which is a retrovirus.
virus: Viruses are found in almost every ecosystem on Earth and are the most numerous type of biological entity.
virus: Protein filaments measuring 100 nm project from the surface.
virus: Some viruses, called satellites, can replicate only within cells that have already been infected by another virus.
virus: The escaped DNA could have come from plasmids (pieces of naked DNA that can move between cells) or transposons (molecules of DNA that replicate and move around to different positions within the genes of the cell).
virus: Reverse transcribing viruses with RNA genomes (retroviruses) use a DNA intermediate to replicate, whereas those with DNA genomes (pararetroviruses) use an RNA intermediate during genome replication.
virus: Older estimates say it killed 40–50 million people, while more recent research suggests that it may have killed as many as 100 million people, or 5% of the world's population in 1918.
virus: Vaccines are available to prevent over thirteen viral infections of humans, and more are used to prevent viral infections of animals.
virus: Both types use a reverse transcriptase, or RNA-dependent DNA polymerase enzyme, to carry out the nucleic acid conversion.
virus: Beyond this, errors when replicating render the virus useless or uncompetitive.
virus: When vaccines are not available, sanitation and disinfection can be effective.
virus: These viruses infect specific bacteria by binding to surface receptor molecules and then entering the cell.
virus: Around 100 individual antiviral drugs, or combinations of them, can be used to treat infections.
virus: Viruses accepted to cause human cancers include some genotypes of human papillomavirus, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, Epstein–Barr virus, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus and human T-lymphotropic virus.
virus: In viruses such as HIV, this modification (sometimes called maturation) occurs after the virus has been released from the host cell.
virus: Live vaccines contain weakened forms of the virus, which do not cause the disease but, nonetheless, confer immunity.
virus: Viruses are an important natural means of transferring genes between different species, which increases genetic diversity and drives evolution.
virus: These latent infections become productive when the prophage DNA is activated by stimuli such as changes in the environment.
virus: Further concern was raised by the successful recreation of the infamous 1918 influenza virus in a laboratory.
virus: Defences against these viruses involve RNA interference from repetitive DNA sequences within archaean genomes that are related to the genes of the viruses.
virus: A meaning of 'agent that causes infectious disease' is first recorded in 1728, long before the discovery of viruses by Dmitri Ivanovsky in 1892.
virus: Most DNA viruses are entirely dependent on the host cell's DNA and RNA synthesising machinery and RNA processing machinery.
virus: Most people have been infected with at least one of these types of herpes virus.
virus: Antigenic shift occurs when there is a major change in the genome of the virus.
virus: The major way bacteria defend themselves from bacteriophages is by producing enzymes that destroy foreign DNA.
virus: This primes the subsequent destruction of the virus by the enzymes of the cell's proteasome system.
virus: This tail structure acts like a molecular syringe, attaching to the bacterial host and then injecting the viral genome into the cell.
virus: Another example is the use of CPMV as a nanoscale breadboard for molecular electronics.
virus: Viruses have been modified by scientists to reproduce in cancer cells and destroy them but not infect healthy cells.
virus: A protein that is in cells, called TRIM21, can attach to the antibodies on the surface of the virus particle.
virus: Other viruses may have evolved from bacteria.
virus: Viruses with larger genomes may encode much of this machinery themselves.
virus: The ability to synthesise viruses has far-reaching consequences, since viruses can no longer be regarded as extinct, as long as the information of their genome sequence is known and permissive cells are available.
virus: The ability of viruses to cause devastating epidemics in human societies has led to the concern that viruses could be weaponised for biological warfare.
virus: Horizontal transmission is the most common mechanism of spread of viruses in populations.
virus: Some viruses undergo a lysogenic cycle where the viral genome is incorporated by genetic recombination into a specific place in the host's chromosome.
virus: Viruses can have a lipid "envelope" derived from the host cell membrane.
virus: Viruses were demonstrated to be particles, rather than a fluid, by Wendell Meredith Stanley, and the invention of the electron microscope in 1931 allowed their complex structures to be visualised.
virus: In this application, the virus particles separate the fluorescent dyes used for signalling to prevent the formation of non-fluorescent dimers that act as quenchers.
virus: Replication involves the synthesis of viral messenger RNA (mRNA) from "early" genes (with exceptions for positive-sense RNA viruses), viral protein synthesis, possible assembly of viral proteins, then viral genome replication mediated by early or regulatory protein expression.
virus: It can also occur when aerosols containing viruses are inhaled or by insect vectors such as when infected mosquitoes penetrate the skin of a host.
virus: Most archaea have CRISPR–Cas systems as an adaptive defence against viruses.
virus: A unified taxonomy (a universal system for classifying viruses) has been established.
virus: DNA nomenclature for viruses with genomic ssDNA is similar to RNA nomenclature, in that positive-strand viral ssDNA is identical in sequence to the viral mRNA and is thus a coding strand, while negative-sense viral ssDNA is complementary to the viral mRNA and is thus a template strand.
virus: Control measures are used that are based on knowledge of how the virus is transmitted.
virus: Retroviruses integrate the DNA produced by reverse transcription into the host genome as a provirus as a part of the replication process; pararetroviruses do not, although integrated genome copies of especially plant endogenous pararetroviruses can give rise to infectious virus.
virus: RNA viruses often exist as quasispecies or swarms of viruses of the same species but with slightly different genome nucleoside sequences.
virus: Plants have elaborate and effective defence mechanisms against viruses.
virus: Viruses infect all life forms, from animals and plants to microorganisms, including bacteria and archaea.
virus: Genetic recombination is a process by which a strand of DNA (or RNA) is broken and then joined to the end of a different DNA (or RNA) molecule.
virus: The presence of IgM in the blood of the host is used to test for acute infection, whereas IgG indicates an infection sometime in the past.
virus: It is thought that viruses played a central role in early evolution, before the diversification of the last universal common ancestor into bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes.
virus: This system based classification on phylum, class, order, family, genus, and species.
virus: It can be a virus that is isolated from its natural reservoir or isolated as the result of spread to an animal or human host where the virus had not been identified before.
virus: Reoviruses)
IV: (+)ssRNA viruses (+ strand or sense) RNA (e.g.
virus: Rotaviruses have evolved to avoid this defence mechanism by not uncoating fully inside the cell, and releasing newly produced mRNA through pores in the particle's inner capsid.
virus: There are many types of plant viruses, but often they cause only a loss of yield, and it is not economically viable to try to control them.
virus: The capsids of most plant viruses are simple and robust structures and can be produced in large quantities either by the infection of plants or by expression in a variety of heterologous systems.
