wall_street: Another estimate (in 2006) was that the financial services industry makes up 9% of the city's work force and 31% of the tax base.
wall_street: The idea of the agreement was to make the market more "structured" and "without the manipulative auctions", with a commission structure.
wall_street: During this time Rockefeller Group Business Center opened additional offices at 48 Wall Street.
wall_street: Foolishly and recklessly, the banks didn't look at these loans adequately, relying on flawed credit-rating agencies such as Standard & Poor's and Moody's, which blithely certified toxic mortgage-backed securities as solid ...
wall_street: The area was subjected to numerous threats; one bomb threat in 1921 led to detectives sealing off the area to "prevent a repetition of the Wall Street bomb explosion".
wall_street: Rogers Marvel designed a new kind of bollard, a faceted piece of sculpture whose broad, slanting surfaces offer people a place to sit in contrast to the typical bollard, which is supremely unsittable.
wall_street: It is the last remaining major investment bank headquarters on Wall Street.
wall_street: Nor is New York.
wall_street: Analyst Robert Kuttner in the Huffington Post criticized the bailout as helping large Wall Street firms such as Citigroup while neglecting to help smaller community development banks such as Chicago's ShoreBank.
wall_street: When the average "peaks and troughs" went up consistently, he deemed it a bull market condition; if averages dropped, it was a bear market.
wall_street: Vehicle traffic is only allowed for local residents and those with permission from local businesses and the city and only after being subject to a security search.
wall_street: 23 Wall Street, a four-story headquarters built in 1914, was known as the "House of Morgan" and served for decades as the J.P.
wall_street: 1 Wall Street, a 50-story skyscraper built in 1929–1931 with an expansion in 1963–1965.
wall_street: The seven largest Wall Street firms in the 2000s were Bear Stearns, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers.
wall_street: Cohan argued that it was "obscene" how Wall Street reaped "massive profits and bonuses in 2009" after being saved by "trillions of dollars of American taxpayers' treasure" despite Wall Street's "greed and irresponsible risk-taking".
wall_street: Washington Post reporter Suzanne McGee called for Wall Street to make a sort of public apology to the nation, and expressed dismay that people such as Goldman Sachs chief executive Lloyd Blankfein hadn't expressed contrition despite being sued by the SEC in 2009.
wall_street: The NYSE was determined to re-open on September 17, almost a week after the attack.
wall_street: In 1976, banks were allowed to buy and sell stocks, which provided more competition for stockbrokers.
wall_street: banks and allowed Wall Street firms to borrow "directly from the Fed" through a vehicle called the Fed's Discount Window, a sort of lender of last resort.
wall_street: For example, to accommodate the three thousand people who work directly on the exchange floor requires 3,500 kilowatts of electricity, along with 8,000 phone circuits on the trading floor alone, and 200 miles (320 km) of fiber-optic cable below ground.
wall_street: Wall Street in a conceptual sense represents financial and economic power.
wall_street: This use of both names for the street also appears as late as 1691 on the Miller Plan of New York.
wall_street: The financial industry has been slowly migrating from its historic home in the warren of streets around Wall Street to the more spacious and glamorous office towers of Midtown Manhattan.
wall_street: Between 1860 and 1920, the economy changed from "agricultural to industrial to financial" and New York maintained its leadership position despite these changes, according to historian Thomas Kessner.
wall_street: Morgan Stanley, J.P.
wall_street: The intersection of Broad and Wall in front of the NYSE, is a now public square.
wall_street: In the original records of New Amsterdam, the Dutch always called the street Het Cingel ("the Belt"), which was also the name of the original outer barrier street, wall, and canal of Amsterdam.
wall_street: Cosmetic damage from the 1920 Wall Street bombing is still visible on the Wall Street side of this building.
wall_street: 60 Wall Street, built in 1988.
wall_street: Having a direct tie to Wall Street employment can be problematic for New Jersey, however.
wall_street: government, and Merrill Lynch was bought by Bank of America in a similar shot-gun wedding.
wall_street: Many events of Tom Wolfe's 1987 novel The Bonfire of the Vanities center on Wall Street and its culture.
wall_street: Federal Hall National Memorial (26 Wall Street), built in 1833–1842.
wall_street: Another estimate, made in 2008, was that Wall Street provided a fourth of all personal income earned in the city, and 10% of New York City's tax revenue.
wall_street: A reporter wrote:
wall_street: Wall Street is a street in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan in New York City.
wall_street: Each slug penetrated the stone an inch or two [3–5 cm] and chipped off pieces ranging from three inches to a foot [8–30 cm] in diameter.
wall_street: During the subprime mortgage crisis from 2007 to 2010, Wall Street financing was blamed as one of the causes, although most commentators blame an interplay of factors.
wall_street: The 2013 film The Wolf of Wall Street is a dark comedy about Jordan Belfort, a New York stockbroker who ran Stratton Oakmont, a firm from Lake Success, New York, that engaged in securities fraud and corruption on Wall Street from 1987 to 1998.
wall_street: The wall was built of dirt and 15-foot (4.6 m) long wooden planks, measuring 2,340 feet (710 m) long and 9 feet (2.7 m) tall and was built using the labor of both enslaved Africans and white colonists.
wall_street: But as the dealer slipped him a heat-sealed plastic envelope of cocaine and he passed her cash, the transaction was being watched through the sunroof of her car by Federal drug agents in a nearby building.
wall_street: These failures marked a catastrophic downsizing of Wall Street as the financial industry goes through restructuring and change.
wall_street: An actual city wall existed on the street from 1653 to 1699.
wall_street: Wall Street has become synonymous with financial interests, often used negatively.
wall_street: Stylishly dressed and wearing designer sunglasses, she sat in her 1983 Chevrolet Camaro in a no-parking zone across the street from the Marine Midland Bank branch on lower Broadway.
wall_street: In 1997, The Beatnuts filmed the music video for "Off the Books" with Big Pun and Cuban Link on Wall Street, which was directed by Chris Robinson.
wall_street: On September 16, 1920, close to the corner of Wall and Broad Street, the busiest corner of the Financial District and across the offices of the Morgan Bank, a powerful bomb exploded.
wall_street: Its 14-foot-high (4.3 m) storm surge, a local record, caused massive street flooding nearby.
wall_street: For some, like hedge fund manager Ray Dalio, their fame is due to skillful investment strategies, financing, reporting, legal or regulatory activities, while others such as Ivan Boesky, Michael Milken and Bernie Madoff are remembered for their notable failures or scandal.
wall_street: From 1946 to 1947, stocks could not be purchased "on margin", meaning that an investor had to pay 100% of a stock's cost without taking on any loans.
wall_street: The explosion did, however, help fuel the Red Scare that was underway at the time.
wall_street: Ramsden believes "risk-taking is vital" and said in 2010:
wall_street: The ornamental iron grill work protecting each window was broken or shattered.
wall_street: 55 Wall Street, erected in 1836–1841 as the four-story Merchants Exchange, was turned into the United States Custom House in the late 19th century.
wall_street: It runs eight city blocks between Broadway in the west and South Street and the East River in the east with a length of just under 2,000 feet.
wall_street: It was converted in 2006–2009 into a mixed-use building with condominiums and a hotel.
wall_street: Alexander Hamilton, who was the first Treasury secretary and "architect of the early United States financial system", is buried in the cemetery of Trinity Church, as is Robert Fulton, famed for his steamboats.
wall_street: In the first few decades, both residences and businesses occupied the area, but increasingly, business predominated.
wall_street: There were some indications that midtown had been becoming the locus of financial services dealings even by 1911.
wall_street: The state lost 7.9 percent of its employment base from 2007 to 2010 in the financial services sector in the fallout of the subprime mortgage crisis.
wall_street: Its bronze surfaces actually echo the grand doorways of Wall Street's temples of commerce.
wall_street: But chief banking analyst at Goldman Sachs, Richard Ramsden, is "unapologetic" and sees "banks as the dynamos that power the rest of the economy".
wall_street: In today's burgeoning and increasingly integrated global financial markets — a vast, neural spaghetti of wires, Web sites and trading platforms — the N.Y.S.E.
wall_street: In the early 19th century, both residences and businesses occupied the area, but increasingly the latter predominated, and New York's financial industry became centered on Wall Street.
wall_street: City authorities realize its importance, and believed that it has "outgrown its neoclassical temple at the corner of Wall and Broad streets", and in 1998, offered substantial tax incentives to try to keep it in the Financial District.
wall_street: A substantial amount of securities traded in the United States are executed in New Jersey as the data centers of electronic trading in the U.S.
wall_street: Others in the financial industry believe that they have been unfairly castigated by the public and by politicians.
wall_street: Reforms had the effect of lowering prices overall, making it easier for more people to participate in the stock market.
wall_street: 48 Wall Street, a 32-story skyscraper built in 1927–1929 as the Bank of New York & Trust Company Building.
wall_street: Parts of Wall Street, as well as several other streets in the neighborhood, were blocked off by specially designed bollards:
wall_street: A report described the migration from Wall Street:
wall_street: Another estimate was that in 2007, the financial services industry which had a $70 billion profit became 22 percent of the city's revenue.
wall_street: But there would be a cost.
wall_street: On January 26, 2000, the band Rage Against the Machine filmed the music video for "Sleep Now in the Fire" on Wall Street, which was directed by Michael Moore.
wall_street: In 1913, for example, when authorities proposed a $4 stock transfer tax, stock clerks protested.
wall_street: the Assay Office was a wreck.
wall_street: And the customer — an undercover agent himself -was learning the ways, the wiles and the conventions of Wall Street's drug subculture.
wall_street: Morgan Chase, Citigroup, and Bear Stearns have all moved north.
wall_street: Since telecommunications costs were coming down, banks and brokerage firms could move away from the Financial District to more affordable locations.
wall_street: Between 1995 and 2005, the sector grew at an annual rate of about 6.6% annually, a respectable rate, but that other financial centers were growing faster.
wall_street: Cars, however, cannot pass.
wall_street: During the 18th century, the location served as a slave market and securities trading site, and from 1703 onward, as the location of New York's city hall, which became Federal Hall.
wall_street: A few days later, on October 24, stock values plummeted.
wall_street: Rich enough to have your own jet.
wall_street: The Dutch named these bastions "Hollandia" and "Zeelandia" after the ships that carried their invasion force.
wall_street: When the World Trade Center was destroyed on September 11, 2001, the attacks "crippled" the communications network and destroyed many buildings in the Financial District, although the buildings on Wall Street itself saw only little physical damage.
wall_street: The economy resumed upward growth after a period in the early 1980s of languishing.
wall_street: The wall and its fortifications were eventually removed in 1699—it had outlived its usefulness because the city had grown well beyond the wall.
wall_street: headquarters before becoming the U.S.
wall_street: These efforts were highly controversial at the time, but from the perspective of 2010, it appeared the Federal exertions had been the right decisions.
wall_street: The Civil War greatly expanded the northern economy, bringing greater prosperity to cities like New York which "came into its own as the nation's banking center" connecting "Old World capital and New World ambition", according to one account.
wall_street: A report by Michael Stoler in The New York Sun described a "phoenix-like resurrection" of the area, with residential, commercial, retail and hotels booming in the "third largest business district in the country".
wall_street: bank's headquarters and, by some accounts, was considered an important address in American finance.
wall_street: In the 2012 film The Dark Knight Rises, Bane attacks the Gotham City Stock Exchange.
wall_street: The economic impacts of Wall Street activities extend worldwide.
wall_street: He added up prices, and divided by the number of stocks to get his Dow Jones average.
wall_street: In addition, images of Wall Street and its figures have loomed large.
wall_street: In 2009, things looked somewhat gloomy, with one analysis by the Boston Consulting Group suggesting that 65,000 jobs had been permanently lost because of the downturn.
wall_street: Confusion over the origins of the name Wall Street appeared in modern times because in the 19th and early 20th century some historians mistakenly thought the Dutch had called it "de Waal Straat", which to Dutch ears sounds like Walloon Street.
wall_street: Rockefeller's Standard Oil moved to New York City.
wall_street: The most significant area with Wall Street employment is in Jersey City.
wall_street: The Downtown Manhattan Heliport also serves Wall Street.
wall_street: The opening of the Erie Canal in the early 19th century meant a huge boom in business for New York City, since it was the only major eastern seaport which had direct access by inland waterways to ports on the Great Lakes.
wall_street: In 2008, Lehman filed for bankruptcy, Bear Stearns was bought by JPMorgan Chase forced by the U.S.
wall_street: Analyst William D.
wall_street: government with the Troubled Asset Relief Program bailed out the banks and financial backers with billions of taxpayer dollars, but the bailout was often criticized as politically motivated, and was criticized by journalists as well as the public.
wall_street: The New York Stock Exchange closed early that day, at 2:52 p.m.
wall_street: The exchange is the locus for a large amount of technology and data.
wall_street: Generally during the 19th century Wall Street developed its own "unique personality and institutions" with little outside interference.
wall_street: A century later, there were 30 stocks in the average.
wall_street: Trading volumes climbed; in 1967, according to Time Magazine, volume hit 7.5 million shares a day which caused a "traffic jam" of paper with "batteries of clerks" working overtime to "clear transactions and update customer accounts".
wall_street: The Reagan years were marked by a renewed push for capitalism and business, with national efforts to de-regulate industries such as telecommunications and aviation.
wall_street: A report in The New York Times described that the flushness of money and growth during these years had spawned a drug culture of sorts, with a rampant acceptance of cocaine use although the overall percent of actual users was most likely small.
wall_street: In 2008, the "Wall Street West" employment contributed to one third of the private sector jobs in Jersey City.
wall_street: The firm has computers in the U.S.
wall_street: The benefit was being in proximity to each other.
wall_street: A new City Hall was built at Wall and Nassau in 1700 using the stones from the bastions as materials for the foundation.
wall_street: Reforms were instituted; the Securities & Exchange Commission eliminated fixed commissions, which forced "brokers to compete freely with one another for investors' business".
wall_street: The older skyscrapers often were built with elaborate facades, which have not been common in corporate architecture for decades.
wall_street: But there were signs that Manhattan property prices were rebounding with price rises of 9% annually in 2010, and bonuses were being paid once more, with average bonuses over $124,000 in 2010.
wall_street: There was a gate at Broadway (the "Land Gate") and another at Pearl Street, the "Water Gate".
wall_street: Of the street's importance as a financial center, New York Times analyst Daniel Gross wrote:
wall_street: What had happened during these heady years?
wall_street: headquarters of Deutsche Bank.
wall_street: The film Wall Street (1987) and its sequel Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps (2010) exemplify many popular conceptions of Wall Street as a center of shady corporate dealings and insider trading.
wall_street: After October 7, 1896, it began publishing Dow's expanded list of stocks.
wall_street: To guard against terrorist attacks in the area, Wall Street from Broadway to William Street, and Broad Street from Beaver to Nassau was permanently closed to vehicular traffic and pedestrianized.
wall_street: A player." Wall Street firms have, however, also contributed to projects such as Habitat for Humanity, as well as done food programs in Haiti, trauma centers in Sudan, and rescue boats during floods in Bangladesh.
wall_street: At other times, city and state officials have taken steps through tax incentives to encourage financial firms to continue to do business in the city.
wall_street: After Wall Street firms started to expand westward in the 1980s into New Jersey, the direct economic impacts of Wall Street activities have gone beyond New York City.
wall_street: The street is near multiple subway stations and ferry terminals.
wall_street: The customer in the passenger seat looked like a successful young businessman.
wall_street: One estimate was that 45% of Wall Street's "best office space" had been lost.
wall_street: With Wall Street being historically a commuter destination, a plethora of transportation infrastructure has been developed to serve it.
wall_street: During the World War I years, occasionally there were fund-raising efforts for projects such as the National Guard.
wall_street: Anchored by Wall Street, New York City has been called the world's most economically powerful city and leading financial center.
wall_street: Morgan Building at Wall Street and Broad Street standing in for the Exchange.
wall_street: The largest mutual-fund complexes are in Valley Forge, Pa., Los Angeles and Boston, while trading and money management are spreading globally.
wall_street: Anchored by Wall Street, New York has been described as the world's principal fintech and financial center.
wall_street: The industry contributed $39.4 billion or 8.4 percent to the New Jersey's gross domestic product in the same year.
wall_street: In 2008, after a downturn in the stock market, the decline meant $18 billion less in taxable income, with less money available for "apartments, furniture, cars, clothing and services".
wall_street: From 1934 to the mid-1980s, Wall Street Skyport served as a seaplane base that was primarily used by suburban commuters.
wall_street: Wall Street pay, in terms of salaries and bonuses and taxes, is an important part of the economy of New York City, the tri-state metropolitan area, and the United States.
wall_street: The original wall was constructed under orders from Director General of the Dutch West India Company Peter Stuyvesant at the start of the first Anglo-Dutch war soon after New Amsterdam was incorporated in 1653.
wall_street: In 1998, the NYSE and the city struck a $900 million deal which kept the NYSE from moving across the river to Jersey City; the deal was described as the "largest in city history to prevent a corporation from leaving town".
wall_street: 40 Wall Street, a 71-story skyscraper built in 1929–1930 as the Bank of Manhattan Company Building; it later became the Trump Building.
wall_street: The NYSE closed two of its trading floors in a move towards transforming itself into an electronic exchange.
wall_street: Geisst wrote that the exchange has become "inextricably intertwined into New York's economy".
wall_street: October 3, 1929, was when the market started to slip, and it continued throughout the week of October 14.
wall_street: During the recession of 2008–10, many of these firms, including Lehman, went out of business or were bought up at firesale prices by other financial firms.
wall_street: He looked at average prices for these eleven.
wall_street: "There are old stories of people's houses being surrounded by the clamor of business and trade and the owners complaining that they can't get anything done," according to a historian named Burrows.
wall_street: In 1987, the stock market plunged, and, in the relatively brief recession following, the surrounding area lost 100,000 jobs according to one estimate.
wall_street: By 2010, Wall Street firms, in Clark's view, were "getting back to their old selves as engine rooms of wealth, prosperity and excess".
wall_street: Some "old guard" firms such as Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch (bought by Bank of America in 2009), have remained "fiercely loyal to the Financial District" location, and new ones such as Deutsche Bank have chosen office space in the district.
wall_street: To Americans, it can sometimes represent elitism and power politics, and its role has been a source of controversy throughout the nation's history, particularly beginning around the Gilded Age period in the late 19th century.
wall_street: headquarters of Barclays although several firms leased space in the building after it opened.
wall_street: The perpetrators were never identified or apprehended.
wall_street: In the 1840s and 1850s, most residents moved further uptown to Midtown Manhattan because of the increased business use at the lower tip of the island.
wall_street: The tomb-like silence that settles over Wall Street and lower Broadway with the coming of night and the suspension of business was entirely changed last night as hundreds of men worked under the glare of searchlights to repair the damage to skyscrapers that were lighted up from top to bottom.
wall_street: When large firms such as Enron, WorldCom, and Global Crossing were found guilty of fraud, Wall Street was often blamed, even though these firms had headquarters around the nation and not in Wall Street.
wall_street: The Assay Office, nearest the point of explosion, naturally suffered the most.
wall_street: Fearing an over land invasion of English troops from the colonies in New England (at the time Manhattan was easily accessible by land because the Harlem Ship Canal had not been dug), he ordered a ditch and wooden palisade to be constructed on the northern boundary of the New Amsterdam settlement.
wall_street: Wall Street station at William Street (2 and ​3 trains)
Wall Street station at Broadway (4 and ​5 trains)
Broad Street station at Broad Street, with an entrance at Wall Street (J and ​Z trains)
No bus route runs on Wall Street.
wall_street: The growing national economy and prosperity led to a recovery during the 1960s, with some down years during the early 1970s in the aftermath of the Vietnam War.
wall_street: During this era, development of the Financial District stagnated, and Wall Street "paid a heavy price" and "became something of a backwater in American life".
wall_street: Slavery had been introduced to Manhattan in 1626, but it was not until December 13, 1711, that the New York City Common Council made a market at the foot of Wall Street the city's first official slave market for the sale and rental of enslaved Africans and Indians.
wall_street: In these early days, local merchants and traders would gather at disparate spots to buy and sell shares and bonds, and over time divided themselves into two classes—auctioneers and dealers.
wall_street: New York's municipal authorities directly benefited from the sale of slaves by implementing taxes on every person who was bought and sold there.
wall_street: It was as though some gigantic force had overturned the building and then placed it upright again, leaving the framework uninjured but scrambling everything inside.
wall_street: An example is the alternative trading platform known as BATS, based in Kansas City, which came "out of nowhere to gain a 9 percent share in the market for trading United States stocks".
wall_street: The 1987 Oliver Stone film Wall Street created the iconic figure of Gordon Gekko who used the phrase "greed is good", which caught on in the cultural parlance.
wall_street: The exchange still occupies the same site.
wall_street: state of New Jersey, and only two salespeople in New York City; the remaining 33 employees work in a center in Kansas.
wall_street: Many complained that the resulting Sarbanes–Oxley legislation dampened the business climate with regulations that were "overly burdensome".
wall_street: Most Wall Street banks didn't actually go around the US hawking dodgy mortgages; they bought and packaged loans from on-the-ground firms such as Countrywide Financial and New Century Financial, both of which hit a financial wall in the crisis.
wall_street: An expansion in 1907–1910 turned it into the eight-story National City Bank Building.
wall_street: The building, which previously housed the United States Custom House and then the Subtreasury, is now a national monument.
wall_street: Estimates vary about the number and quality of financial jobs in the city.
wall_street: Morgan & Co.
wall_street: Main Street
K Street (Washington, D.C.)
American business history
Dow Jones Industrial Average
Economy of New York City
List of Financial Districts
Wall Street Historic District (Manhattan)
wall_street: In 1975, the SEC threw out the NYSE's "Rule 394" which had required that "most stock transactions take place on the Big Board's floor", in effect freeing up trading for electronic methods.
wall_street: This includes the majority of the workforce of Depository Trust Company, the primary U.S.
wall_street: In the late 18th century, there was a buttonwood tree at the foot of Wall Street under which traders and speculators would gather to trade securities.
wall_street: As such, a falloff in Wall Street's economy could have "wrenching effects on the local and regional economies".
wall_street: There are numerous landmarks on Wall Street, some of which were erected as the headquarters of banks.
wall_street: One of the firms looking to move away was the NYSE.
wall_street: Authorities built concrete barriers, and found ways over time to make them more aesthetically appealing by spending $5000 to $8000 apiece on bollards.
wall_street: Named in reference to the actual street, it became an influential international daily business newspaper published in New York City.
wall_street: These include:
wall_street: It was built to be the U.S.
wall_street: The term "Wall Street" has become a metonym for the financial markets of the United States as a whole, the American financial services industry, New York–based financial interests, or the Financial District.
wall_street: Pier 11 near Wall Street's eastern end is a busy terminal for New York Waterway, NYC Ferry, New York Water Taxi, and SeaStreak.
wall_street: is clearly no longer the epicenter.
wall_street: Some of the companies included in Dow's original calculations were American Tobacco Company, General Electric, Laclede Gas Company, National Lead Company, Tennessee Coal & Iron, and United States Leather Company.
wall_street: But the picture is too nuanced simply to dump all the responsibility on financiers.
wall_street: Wall Street's architecture is generally rooted in the Gilded Age.
wall_street: The employment in the financial services industry, mostly in the "back office" roles, has become an important part of New Jersey's economy.
wall_street: 75 Wall Street, built in 1987.
wall_street: A report from The New York Times:
wall_street: Many brokerage firms owned offices nearby to support the business they did on the exchanges.
wall_street: Media related to Wall Street at Wikimedia Commons
New York Songlines: Wall Street, a virtual walking tour
wall_street: The bollard, which is called the Nogo, looks a bit like one of Frank Gehry's unorthodox culture palaces, but it is hardly insensitive to its surroundings.
wall_street: The street was originally known in Dutch as Het Cingel ("the Belt") when it was part of New Amsterdam during the 17th century.
wall_street: Most, though, got burned – the banks are still gradually running down portfolios of non-core loans worth $800bn.
wall_street: A post office was built at 60 Wall Street in 1905.
wall_street: It bolstered U.S.
wall_street: One estimate was that Wall Street firms employed close to 200,000 persons in 2008.
wall_street: But as technology progressed, in the middle and later decades of the 20th century, computers and telecommunications replaced paper notifications, meaning that the close proximity requirement could be bypassed in more situations.
wall_street: Within the Financial Service cluster, there were three major sectors: more than 60 percent were in the securities industry; 20 percent were in banking; and 8 percent in insurance.
wall_street: The address of 23 Wall Street, the headquarters of J.
wall_street: securities depository; and the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation, the parent company of National Securities Clearing Corporation, the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation and Emerging Markets Clearing Corporation.
wall_street: During the New Deal years, as well as the 1940s, there was much less focus on Wall Street and finance.
wall_street: Morgan created giant trusts and John D.
wall_street: In 1973, the financial community posted a collective loss of $245 million, which spurred temporary help from the government.
wall_street: The NYSE was closed for weather-related reasons, the first time since Hurricane Gloria in September 1985 and the first two-day weather-related shutdown since the Blizzard of 1888.
wall_street: For example, the former investment firm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette was described as a Wall Street firm but had its headquarters on Park Avenue in Midtown.
wall_street: Herman Melville's classic short story "Bartleby, the Scrivener" (first published in 1853 and republished in revised edition in 1856) is subtitled "A Story of Wall Street" and portrays the alienating forces at work within the confines of Wall Street.
wall_street: At the same time, the investment community was worried about proposed legal reforms, including the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which dealt with matters such as credit card rates and lending requirements.
wall_street: On October 29, 2012, Wall Street was disrupted when New York and New Jersey were inundated by Hurricane Sandy.
wall_street: So-called "face-to-face" trading between buyers and sellers remains a "cornerstone" of the NYSE, with a benefit of having all of a deal's players close at hand, including investment bankers, lawyers, and accountants.
wall_street: Rich enough not to waste time.
wall_street: Nevertheless, a key magnet for the Wall Street remains the New York Stock Exchange Building.
wall_street: Plans to rebuild it were delayed by the September 11 attacks.
wall_street: It houses the New York Stock Exchange, which is by far the world's largest stock exchange per market capitalization of its listed companies, at US$28.5 trillion as of June 30, 2018.
wall_street: Gekko is reportedly based on multiple real-life individuals on Wall Street, including corporate raider Carl Icahn, disgraced stock trader Ivan Boesky, and investor Michael Ovitz.
wall_street: In 1889 the original stock report, Customers' Afternoon Letter, became The Wall Street Journal.
wall_street: Geisst suggested that there has constantly been a "tug-of-war" between business interests on Wall Street and authorities in Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States by then.
wall_street: The government clamped down on the practice of buying equities based only on credit, but these policies began to ease.
wall_street: A few of those on Wall Street, including maverick hedge fund manager John Paulson and the top brass at Goldman Sachs, spotted what was going on and ruthlessly gambled on a crash.
wall_street: Business writer John Brooks in his book Once in Golconda considered the start of the 20th century period to have been Wall Street's heyday.
wall_street: New York was second only to London as the world's financial capital.
wall_street: In 1884, Charles Dow began tracking stocks, initially beginning with 11 stocks, mostly railroads.
wall_street: Another key anchor for the area is the New York Stock Exchange Building at the corner of Broad Street.
wall_street: Wall Street became the "money capital of America".
wall_street: Dow's numbers were a "convenient benchmark" for analyzing the market and became an accepted way to look at the entire stock market.
wall_street: 14 Wall Street, a 32-story skyscraper with a 7-story stepped pyramid, built in 1910–1912 with an expansion in 1931–1933.
wall_street: Beginning in September 2011, the Occupy Wall Street movement, disenchanted with the financial system, protested in parks and plazas around Wall Street.
wall_street: In 2009, the Wall Street employment wages were paid in the amount of almost $18.5 billion in the state.
wall_street: In 2009, Stone commented how the film had had an unexpected cultural influence, not causing them to turn away from corporate greed, but causing many young people to choose Wall Street careers because of the film.
wall_street: There are three New York City Subway stations under Wall Street:
wall_street: The first months of 2008 was a particularly troublesome period which caused Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke to "work holidays and weekends" and which did an "extraordinary series of moves".
wall_street: In 1789, Wall Street was the scene of the United States' first presidential inauguration when George Washington took the oath of office on the balcony of Federal Hall on April 30, 1789.
wall_street: It was previously known as the Irving Trust Company Building and the Bank of New York Building.
wall_street: The term "Wall Street" has become a metonym for the financial markets of the United States as a whole, the American financial services industry, or New York–based financial interests.
wall_street: In 1792, traders formalized their association with the Buttonwood Agreement which was the origin of the New York Stock Exchange.
wall_street: The Wall Street drug dealer looked like many other successful young female executives.
wall_street: There would be virtually no economic growth because there would be no credit creation.
wall_street: After the English conquest of New Netherland in 1664, they renamed the settlement "New York" and in tax records from April 1665 (still in Dutch) they refer to the street as Het Cingel ofte Stadt Wall ("the Belt or the City Wall").
wall_street: However, in 17th century New Amsterdam, de Waal Straat (Wharf or Dock Street) was a section of what is today's Pearl Street.
wall_street: The stock market crash of 1929 ushered in the Great Depression, in which a quarter of working people were unemployed, with soup kitchens, mass foreclosures of farms, and falling prices.
wall_street: Pedestrians easily slip through groups of them as they make their way onto Wall Street from the area around historic Trinity Church.
wall_street: Additionally, New Jersey has become the main technology infrastructure to support the Wall Street operations.
wall_street: New York Governor Thomas Dongan may have issued the first official designation of Wall Street in 1686, the same year he issued a new charter for New York.
wall_street: The market operated from 1711 to 1762 at the corner of Wall and Pearl Streets, and consisted of a wooden structure with a roof and open sides, although walls may have been added over the years; it could hold approximately 50 people.
wall_street: This was also the location of the passing of the Bill of Rights.
wall_street: Many financial firms found that they could move to Midtown Manhattan, only four miles (6 km) away, and still operate effectively.
wall_street: equity market for all major stock exchanges are located in North and Central Jersey.
wall_street: During the 20th century, several early skyscrapers were built on Wall Street, including 40 Wall Street, once the world's tallest building.
wall_street: Fifty, a hundred million dollars, Buddy.
wall_street: The Wall Street area is home to the New York Stock Exchange, the world's largest stock exchange by total market capitalization, as well as the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and commercial banks and insurance companies.
wall_street: It was formerly the J.P.
wall_street: In October 1929, renowned Yale economist Irving Fisher reassured worried investors that their "money was safe" on Wall Street.
wall_street: Scenes were filmed in and around the New York Stock Exchange, with the J.P.
wall_street: These changes made it somewhat easier for investors to buy stocks on credit.
wall_street: Morgan & Company, known as The Corner, was "the precise center, geographical as well as metaphorical, of financial America and even of the financial world".
wall_street: New York's mayor Michael Bloomberg reportedly over a four-year period dangled over $100 million in tax incentives to persuade Goldman Sachs to build a 43-story headquarters in the Financial District near the destroyed World Trade Center site.
wall_street: The financial misdeeds of various figures throughout American history sometimes casts a dark shadow on financial investing as a whole, and include names such as William Duer, Jim Fisk and Jay Gould (the latter two believed to have been involved with an effort to collapse the U.S.
wall_street: Still, after September 11, the financial services industry went through a downturn with a sizable drop in year-end bonuses of $6.5 billion, according to one estimate from a state comptroller's office.
wall_street: A significant amount of securities clearing and settlement workforce is also in the state.
wall_street: McGee wrote that "Bankers aren't the sole culprits, but their too-glib denials of responsibility and the occasional vague and waffling expression of regret don't go far enough to deflect anger."
wall_street: You can construct a banking system in which no bank will ever fail, in which there's no leverage.
wall_street: Historian Charles R.
wall_street: However, this margin requirement was reduced four times before 1960, each time stimulating a mini-rally and boosting volume, and when the Federal Reserve reduced the margin requirements from 90% to 70%.
wall_street: Persons signing the agreement agreed to charge each other a standard commission rate; persons not signing could still participate but would be charged a higher commission for dealing.
wall_street: They made a fortune but turned into the crisis's pantomime villains.
wall_street: September 1929 was the peak of the stock market.
wall_street: Broker commissions for each stock sale lessened, but volume increased.
wall_street: The front was pierced in fifty places where the cast iron slugs, which were of the material used for window weights, were thrown against it.
wall_street: Clark wrote:
wall_street: It was originally the Bankers Trust Company Building.
wall_street: One writer in the Huffington Post looked at FBI statistics on robbery, fraud, and crime and concluded that Wall Street was the "most dangerous neighborhood in the United States" if one factored in the $50 billion fraud perpetrated by Bernie Madoff.
wall_street: For example, Anthony Scaramucci reportedly told President Barack Obama in 2010 that he felt like a piñata, "whacked with a stick" by "hostile politicians".
wall_street: gold market in 1869) as well as modern figures such as Bernard Madoff who "bilked billions from investors".
wall_street: A reporter repeated other lines from the film: "I'm talking about liquid.
wall_street: Wall Street has had changing relationships with government authorities.
wall_street: In the Star Trek universe, the Ferengi are said to make regular pilgrimages to Wall Street, which they worship as a holy site of commerce and business.
wall_street: The two routes intersecting are the M15 and M15 SBS on Water Street and the downtown M55 on Broadway.
wall_street: It killed 38 and seriously injured 143 people.
wall_street: Several other stock and commodity exchanges have also been located in Lower Manhattan near Wall Street, including the New York Mercantile Exchange and other commodity futures exchanges, along with the NYSE American.
wall_street: Since New York's financial industry provides almost one-fourth of all income produced in the city, and accounts for 10% of the city's tax revenues and 20% of the state's, the downturn has had huge repercussions for government treasuries.
wall_street: Wall Street became the symbol of a country and economic system that many Americans see as having developed through trade, capitalism, and innovation.
