weather: Coronal mass ejections have been tracked as far out in the Solar System as Saturn.
weather: The windiest place ever recorded is in Antarctica, Commonwealth Bay (George V Coast).
weather: A famous landmark in the Solar System, Jupiter's Great Red Spot, is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed for at least 300 years.
weather: Since outdoor activities are severely curtailed by heavy rain, snow and the wind chill, forecasts can be used to plan activities around these events and to plan ahead to survive through them.
weather: Studying how the weather works on other planets has been helpful in understanding how weather works on Earth.
weather: The sun shines more directly on the tropics than on higher latitudes (at least on average over a year), which makes the tropics warm (Stevens 2011).
weather: In other words, the farther from the tropics one lies, the lower the sun angle is, which causes those locations to be cooler due to the spread of the sunlight over a greater surface.
weather: On the other hand, the temperature is easily forecast in the tropics, because it does not change much.
weather: Because of these differences, clouds and rain are more difficult to forecast in the tropics than at higher latitudes.
weather: Weather occurs primarily due to air pressure, temperature and moisture differences from one place to another.
weather: The activity of this system can affect planetary atmospheres and occasionally surfaces.
weather: These two branches of meteorology are sometimes grouped together as "mesoscale and microscale meteorology" (MMM) and together study all phenomena smaller than synoptic scale; that is they study features generally too small to be depicted on a weather map.
weather: The weather is ultimately created by solar energy and the amount of energy received by Neptune is only about 1⁄900 of that received by Earth, yet the intensity of weather phenomena on Neptune is far greater than on Earth.
weather: (See Milankovitch cycles).
weather: The Cassini–Huygens mission to Titan discovered clouds formed from methane or ethane which deposit rain composed of liquid methane and other organic compounds.
weather: These differences can occur due to the Sun's angle at any particular spot, which varies with latitude.
weather: Once an all-human endeavor based mainly upon changes in barometric pressure, current weather conditions, and sky condition, forecast models are now used to determine future conditions.
weather: One such event is the saving of Japan from invasion by the Mongol fleet of Kublai Khan by the Kamikaze winds in 1281.
weather: There are a variety of end users to weather forecasts.
weather: Weather on other planets follows many of the same physical principles as weather on Earth, but occurs on different scales and in atmospheres having different chemical composition.
weather: Temperature forecasts are used by utility companies to estimate demand over coming days.
weather: In the United States, the National Weather Service has an annual report for fatalities, injury, and total damage costs which include crop and property.
weather: On other giant planets, the lack of a surface allows the wind to reach enormous speeds: gusts of up to 600 metres per second (about 2,100 km/h or 1,300 mph) have been measured on the planet Neptune.
weather: When used without qualification, "weather" is generally understood to mean the weather of Earth.
weather: Tropical weather forecasting is different from that at higher latitudes.
weather: These included droughts, storms and unseasonal blizzards, as well as causing the Swiss Grindelwald Glacier to expand.
weather: Human beings have attempted to predict the weather informally for millennia, and formally since at least the nineteenth century.
weather: Inversions can lead to the formation of fog and often act as a cap that suppresses thunderstorm development.
weather: Weather is not limited to planetary bodies.
weather: Weather warnings are important forecasts because they are used to protect life and property.
weather: The effects of inadvertent weather modification may pose serious threats to many aspects of civilization, including ecosystems, natural resources, food and fiber production, economic development, and human health.
weather: On Earth, common weather phenomena include wind, cloud, rain, snow, fog and dust storms.
weather: Large scale examples include the Hadley cell while a smaller scale example would be coastal breezes.
weather: There are socially and scientifically constructed understandings of what weather is, what makes it change, the effect the weather, and especially inclement weather, has on humans in different situations, etc.
weather: The resulting horizontal pressure gradient moves the air from higher to lower pressure regions, creating a wind, and the Earth's rotation then causes deflection of this airflow due to the Coriolis effect.
weather: In contrast, Jupiter's banded appearance shows many such zones, Titan has a single jet stream near the 50th parallel north latitude, and Venus has a single jet near the equator.
weather: The most successful attempts at influencing weather involve cloud seeding; they include the fog- and low stratus dispersion techniques employed by major airports, techniques used to increase winter precipitation over mountains, and techniques to suppress hail.
weather: Finland suffered a severe famine in 1696–1697, during which about one-third of the Finnish population died.
weather: Because Earth's axis is tilted relative to its orbital plane (called the ecliptic), sunlight is incident at different angles at different times of the year.
weather: On Earth, most weather phenomena occur in the lowest layer of the planet's atmosphere, the troposphere, just below the stratosphere.
weather: Here the gales reach 199 mph (320 km/h).
weather: Higher altitudes are typically cooler than lower altitudes, which is the result of higher surface temperature and radiational heating, which produces the adiabatic lapse rate.
weather: Some more common events include natural disasters such as tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons and ice storms.
weather: French claims to Florida came to an end in 1565 when a hurricane destroyed the French fleet, allowing Spain to conquer Fort Caroline.
weather: The range of climates and latitudes across the planet can offer extremes of temperature outside this range.
weather: A star's corona is constantly being lost to space, creating what is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
weather: In June the Northern Hemisphere is tilted towards the Sun, so at any given Northern Hemisphere latitude sunlight falls more directly on that spot than in December (see Effect of sun angle on climate).
weather: Weather, seen from an anthropological perspective, is something all humans in the world constantly experience through their senses, at least while being outside.
weather: Because of these two factors, clouds and rainstorms in the tropics can occur more spontaneously compared to those at higher latitudes, where they are more tightly controlled by larger-scale forces in the atmosphere.
weather: Higher altitudes are cooler than lower altitudes, as most atmospheric heating is due to contact with the Earth's surface while radiative losses to space are mostly constant.
weather: Although it is difficult to accurately predict weather more than a few days in advance, weather forecasters are continually working to extend this limit through meteorological research and refining current methodologies in weather prediction.
weather: Weather refers to day-to-day temperature, precipitation, and other atmospheric conditions, whereas climate is the term for the averaging of atmospheric conditions over longer periods of time.
weather: Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to predict the state of the atmosphere for a future time and a given location.
weather: However, it is theoretically impossible to make useful day-to-day predictions more than about two weeks ahead, imposing an upper limit to potential for improved prediction skill.
weather: On Earth, temperatures usually range ±40 °C (100 °F to −40 °F) annually.
weather: As of 2007, the strongest planetary winds discovered are on the extrasolar planet HD 189733 b, which is thought to have easterly winds moving at more than 9,600 kilometres per hour (6,000 mph).
weather: These differences can occur due to the sun angle at any particular spot, which varies by latitude in the tropics.
weather: This phenomenon is known as an inversion and can cause mountaintops to be warmer than the valleys below.
weather: Forecasts based on temperature and precipitation are important to agriculture, and therefore to commodity traders within stock markets.
weather: Furthermore, the greatest snowfall in a period of twelve months occurred in Mount Rainier, Washington, US.
weather: However, the weather is not limited to planetary bodies.
weather: Over thousands of years, changes in Earth's orbit can affect the amount and distribution of solar energy received by Earth, thus influencing long-term climate and global climate change.
weather: Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout history, and there is evidence that human activities such as agriculture and industry have modified weather patterns.
weather: Therefore, weather is something people often communicate about.
weather: In some areas, people use weather forecasts to determine what to wear on a given day.
weather: The uneven solar heating (the formation of zones of temperature and moisture gradients, or frontogenesis) can also be due to the weather itself in the form of cloudiness and precipitation.
weather: The coldest air temperature ever recorded on Earth is −89.2 °C (−128.6 °F), at Vostok Station, Antarctica on 21 July 1983.
weather: On Earth's surface, temperatures usually range ±40 °C (−40 °F to 104 °F) annually.
weather: As of 2019, tornadoes have had the greatest impact on humans with 42 fatalities while costing crop and property damage over 3 billion dollars.
weather: Weather systems in the tropics, such as monsoons or organized thunderstorm systems, are caused by different processes.
weather: On the other hand, human input is still required to pick the best possible forecast model to base the forecast upon, which involves many disciplines such as pattern recognition skills, teleconnections, knowledge of model performance, and knowledge of model biases.
weather: Surface temperature differences in turn cause pressure differences.
weather: The weather has played a large and sometimes direct part in human history.
weather: The 1690s saw the worst famine in France since the Middle Ages.
weather: Weather systems in the middle latitudes, such as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet streamflow.
weather: Inconsistencies in this wind and larger events on the surface of the star, such as coronal mass ejections, form a system that has features analogous to conventional weather systems (such as pressure and wind) and is generally known as space weather.
weather: The simple systems thus formed can then display emergent behaviour to produce more complex systems and thus other weather phenomena.
weather: Over thousands to hundreds of thousands of years, changes in Earth's orbital parameters affect the amount and distribution of solar energy received by the Earth and influence long-term climate.
weather: The sediment may reform in time and by geological forces into other rocks and soils.
weather: In this way, weather plays a major role in erosion of the surface.
weather: The atmosphere is a chaotic system.
weather: Weather is one of the fundamental processes that shape the Earth.
weather: Military Operation Popeye, an attempt to disrupt supply lines by lengthening the North Vietnamese monsoon.
weather: Because the Earth's axis is tilted relative to its orbital plane, sunlight is incident at different angles at different times of the year.
weather: China shot 1,104 rain dispersal rockets from 21 sites in the city of Beijing in an effort to keep rain away from the opening ceremony of the games on 8 August 2008.
weather: The process of weathering breaks down the rocks and soils into smaller fragments and then into their constituent substances.
weather: Guo Hu, head of the Beijing Municipal Meteorological Bureau (BMB), confirmed the success of the operation with 100 millimeters falling in Baoding City of Hebei Province, to the southwest and Beijing's Fangshan District recording a rainfall of 25 millimeters.
weather: The interaction of the solar wind with the terrestrial atmosphere can produce spectacular aurorae, and can play havoc with electrically sensitive systems such as electricity grids and radio signals.
weather: The coldest recorded average annual temperature was −55.1 °C (−67.2 °F) at Vostok Station, Antarctica.
weather: The strong temperature contrast between polar and tropical air gives rise to the largest scale atmospheric circulations: the Hadley cell, the Ferrel cell, the polar cell, and the jet stream.
weather: Weather is the state of the Earth's atmosphere at a specific place and time, typically described in terms of temperature, humidity, cloud cover, and stability.
weather: Earth's weather system is a chaotic system; as a result, small changes to one part of the system can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole.
weather: The highest recorded average annual temperature was 34.4 °C (93.9 °F) at Dallol, Ethiopia.
weather: It was recorded as 31,102 mm (102.04 ft) of snow.
weather: Climate change caused by human activities that emit greenhouse gases into the air is expected to affect the frequency of extreme weather events such as drought, extreme temperatures, flooding, high winds, and severe storms.
weather: Weather does occur in the stratosphere and can affect weather lower down in the troposphere, but the exact mechanisms are poorly understood.
weather: This atmospheric instability makes weather forecasting less predictable than tidal waves or eclipses.
weather: Weather is driven by air pressure, temperature, and moisture differences between one place and another.
weather: Like all stars, the Sun's corona is constantly being lost to space, creating what is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
weather: In some situations, the temperature actually increases with height.
weather: Heat, generated by large metropolitan areas have been shown to minutely affect nearby weather, even at distances as far as 1,600 kilometres (990 mi).
weather: Acid rain, caused by industrial emission of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere, adversely affects freshwater lakes, vegetation, and structures.
weather: This causes the rainwater to be slightly acidic, which aids the erosive properties of water.
weather: On local scales, temperature differences can occur because different surfaces (such as oceans, forests, ice sheets, or human-made objects) have differing physical characteristics such as reflectivity, roughness, or moisture content.
weather: Earth's atmosphere includes six latitudinal circulation zones, three in each hemisphere.
weather: Weather forecasts are made by collecting quantitative data about the current state of the atmosphere and using scientific understanding of atmospheric processes to project how the atmosphere will evolve.
weather: A recent example of weather control was China's preparation for the 2008 Summer Olympic Games.
weather: This effect causes seasons.
weather: The movement of mass ejected from the Sun is known as the solar wind.
weather: The coldest average annual temperature in a permanently inhabited location is at Eureka, Nunavut, in Canada, where the annual average temperature is −19.7 °C (−3.5 °F).
weather: Almost all familiar weather phenomena occur in the troposphere (the lower part of the atmosphere).
weather: Whereas there is inconclusive evidence for these techniques' efficacy, there is extensive evidence that human activity such as agriculture and industry results in inadvertent weather modification:
weather: As a result, small changes to one part of the system can accumulate and magnify to cause large effects on the system as a whole.
weather: The strong temperature contrast between polar and tropical air gives rise to the large scale atmospheric circulation cells and the jet stream.
weather: The use of ensembles and model consensus helps to narrow the error and pick the most likely outcome.
weather: During the period known as the Grindelwald Fluctuation (1560–1630), volcanic forcing events seem to have led to more extreme weather events.
weather: Weather systems in the mid-latitudes, such as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow (see baroclinity).
weather: One of the most famous landmarks in the Solar System, Jupiter's Great Red Spot, is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed for at least 300 years.
weather: A hot surface warms the air above it causing it to expand and lower the density and the resulting surface air pressure.
weather: These include small and generally fleeting cloud "puffs" and other small cloud features.
weather: During rains precipitation, the water droplets absorb and dissolve carbon dioxide from the surrounding air.
weather: They gather this data via National Weather Service offices located throughout the 50 states in the United States as well as its territories.
weather: The Little Ice Age caused crop failures and famines in Europe.
weather: Anthropogenic pollutants reduce air quality and visibility.
weather: The hottest air temperature ever recorded was 57.7 °C (135.9 °F) at ʽAziziya, Libya, on 13 September 1922, but that reading was deemed illegitimate by the World Meteorological Organization.
weather: The released sediment and chemicals are then free to take part in chemical reactions that can affect the surface further (such as acid rain), and sodium and chloride ions (salt) deposited in the seas/oceans.
weather: Studying how the weather works on other planets has been seen as helpful in understanding how it works on Earth.
weather: This has created a puzzle for planetary scientists.
weather: More recently, Hurricane Katrina redistributed over one million people from the central Gulf coast elsewhere across the United States, becoming the largest diaspora in the history of the United States.
