world_cup: A world cup is a global sporting competition in which the participant entities – usually international teams or individuals representing their countries – compete for the title of world champion.
world_cup: In individual sports however, holding the title can vary in terms of duration, as it is dependent on the timing of the next scheduled individual contest between the defending champion and a challenger.
world_cup: Since then there have been a number of sporting events labeled "world cup", such as the ICC Men's Cricket World Cup, the ICC Men's T20 World Cup, the Rugby World Cup, Rugby League World Cup, Basketball World Cup, and the Hockey World Cup.
world_cup: This format is most common in team sports.
world_cup: Contestants accumulate a number of points over the course of the year (often "season") and their cumulative total after all meetings have been concluded determines the World Champion or, simply, World Cup winner.
world_cup: In this format, victory at an individual meeting earns a number of points, and, usually, a number of positions below also score points inversely related to their position.
world_cup: The event most associated with the name is the FIFA World Cup for association football, which dates back to 1930.
world_cup: The winner(s) take the title of World Champion(s) and hold it until the next time the event is held (usually one, two, or four years later).
world_cup: Usually, such competitions take one of two forms: a short periodic competition or a year-long series of meetings, but more frequently many sports have both a World Cup (usually consisting of multiple events in a season), and a world championship (usually a single event).
world_cup: The winner is then considered the champion until the next World Cup.
world_cup: A periodic world cup or world championship usually takes the form of a knockout tournament (possibly with an initial group stage).
world_cup: A world cup is generally, though not always, considered the premier competition in its sport, with the victor attaining the highest honour in that sport and being able to lay claim to the title of their sport's best.
world_cup: This is held over a number of days or weeks, with the entrants eventually being whittled down to two, and the tournament culminating in a world cup final.
world_cup: Some sports governing bodies prefer the title "world championship" or a related term; some even organize both a world cup and a world championship with different rules.
