wrestling: Junior varsity and freshman wrestling teams restrict competitors not only by weight, but also by age and the amount of wrestling a competitor can partake in.
wrestling: Several wrestlers who performed in Mexico also had success in the United States, including Eddie Guerrero, Rey Mysterio and Alberto Del Rio.
wrestling: Wrestling is a martial art, combat sport, and form of entertainment that involves grappling with an opponent and striving to obtain a position of advantage through different throws or techniques, within a given ruleset.
wrestling: This form of wrestling is similar to American scholastic and collegiate wrestling with freestyle wrestling having a greater emphasis on throw amplitude.
wrestling: Many philosophers and leaders practiced wrestling and/or referenced the sport frequently in their works, most notably Plato, Socrates, Aristotle, Xenophon, Epictetus, Seneca, Plutarch, and Marcus Aurelius.
wrestling: The Lancashire style of folk wrestling may have formed the basis for Catch wrestling, also known as "catch as catch can." The Scots later formed a variant of this style, and the Irish developed the "collar-and-elbow" style which later found its way into the United States.
wrestling: Louis, Missouri; Greco-Roman wrestling was contested at the first modern Olympics in 1896, but not at the 1900 games.
wrestling: Literary references to wrestling occur as early as the Old Testament and the ancient Indian Vedas.
wrestling: Beach wrestling (BW) is standing wrestling done by wrestlers, male or female, inside a sand-filled circle measuring 7 meters (23 ft) in diameter.
wrestling: Most performers, known as luchadores (singular luchador), begin their careers wearing masks, but most will lose their masks during their careers.
wrestling: They are allowed to use or grab pants or belt as a grip, use legs, waist, clinch, leg trips and lift or throw, with the goal being to touch their opponent's shoulders to the mat.
wrestling: The Iliad, in which Homer recounts the Trojan War of the 13th or 12th century BC, also contains mentions of wrestling.
wrestling: UWW, then known as FILA, codified the form of beach wrestling in 2004.
wrestling: Alysh is a Turkic term for a Central Asian folk wrestling style which involves the wearing of jackets, trousers and thick belts.
wrestling: Ancient Romans borrowed heavily from Greek wrestling, but eliminated much of its brutality through implementing different rules.
wrestling: The first organized national wrestling tournament in the United States took place in New York City in 1888.
wrestling: Professional wrestling is often concluded in a raised ring; akin to boxing.
wrestling: Whereas the Europeans favored the more controlled and classical Greco-Roman style, the Americans from the 1880s preferred the more wide-open style of wrestling that later became known as freestyle.
wrestling: Shoot style wrestling evolved from traditional puroresu in an attempt to create a combat-based style.
wrestling: UWW also sanctions associated styles: grappling, amateur pankration, belt wrestling alysh, pahlavani wrestling, beach wrestling, and African wrestling.
wrestling: have developed junior varsity and freshman teams alongside varsity teams.
wrestling: NCAA Division I wrestling is considered the most prestigious and highest level of collegiate competition.
wrestling: The roots of professional wrestling lay in the catch-as-catch-can contests of the late 19th century.
wrestling: These odes were composed to honor the men and youths who had enjoyed victories in wrestling, boxing, pankration and other athletic contests.
wrestling: Sports entertainment, sometimes referred as "American-style" professional wrestling, includes companies such as WWE, AEW, TNA Wrestling and ROH who run touring professional wrestling events in the United States and throughout the world.
wrestling: If you can just get through the room, the wrestling room practices at like really high level universities, NCAA division one teams; those guys are savages.
wrestling: Folk styles have been international in nature.
wrestling: A school chooses which athletic organization to join, although it may compete against teams from other levels and organizations during regular-season competition.
wrestling: Although advertised as contests, bouts are actually exhibitions with winners generally pre-determined to increase entertainment value.
wrestling: Many of Plato's dialogues are set in wrestling schools.
wrestling: Both Heracles and Theseus were famous for their wrestling against man and beast.
wrestling: Freestyle wrestling has its origins in catch-as-catch-can wrestling and awards points on the basis of throw amplitude, exposure of an opponent's back to the mat and opponent passivity.
wrestling: Various styles such as Cornish wrestling, Gouren, Collar-and-elbow wrestling, etc.
wrestling: A well known Greco-Roman wrestler is Alexander Karelin from Russia.
wrestling: A Frenchman "is generally credited with reorganizing European loose wrestling into a professional sport", Greco-Roman wrestling.
wrestling: Starting in continental Europe, prize money was offered in large sums to the winners of Greco-Roman tournaments, with the style of freestyle wrestling spreading rapidly in the United Kingdom and in the United States during the late 1800s.
wrestling: To win by this move is called paça kazık.
wrestling: Ancient Greek lyric poet Pindar wrote victory odes, grouped into four books named after the Olympian, Pythian, Isthmian, and Nemean Games – Panhellenic festivals held respectively at Olympia, Delphi, Corinth, and Nemea.
wrestling: A different style of professional wrestling evolved in the United Kingdom and spread across Western Europe (where it was known as "Catch" in the non-English speaking countries of mainland Europe).
wrestling: Oil wrestling is the national sport of Turkey and can be traced back to Central Asia.
wrestling: This style which was finalized by the 19th century and by then, wrestling was featured in many fairs and festivals in Europe.
wrestling: Greco-Roman (GR) is an international discipline and one of two wrestling disciplines featured in the Olympic Games.
wrestling: Wrestling is referenced throughout both Ancient Greek and Roman literature.
wrestling: Wrestling professionals soon increased the popularity of Greco-Roman and freestyle wrestling, worldwide.
wrestling: Popular wrestlers from this era include Martin "Farmer" Burns, Frank Gotch, Tom Jenkins, Charles Cutler, Joe Stecher, Earl Caddock, Stanislaus Zbyszko, Ed "Strangler" Lewis, Ad Santel, John Pesek, Jim Londos, Ray Steele, Dick Shikat, and transitional figure Lou Thesz.
wrestling: Wrestling competition, brutal in many aspects, served as the focal sport of the ancient Olympic Games.
wrestling: For example, there have been regular Cornish wrestling tournaments and matches in the US, Australia, South Africa, New Zealand, England and Cornwall, with irregular tournaments and matches in Japan, Canada and Mexico.
wrestling: Sports entertainment matches are highly theatrical, with dramatic stories such as feuds between the athletes developed and performed as part of build-up and promotion for matches.
wrestling: The term "wrestling" in Modern English originated from the late Old English term wræstlunge.
wrestling: Pancrase, another influential MMA organization based on shoot wrestling, also predates the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC).
wrestling: Other notable MMA fighters with foundations in various forms of wrestling include:
wrestling: Freestyle wrestling (FS, WW) is an international discipline and one of two wrestling disciplines featured in the Olympic Games, for both men and women.
wrestling: Celtic wrestling styles (e.g., Cornish wrestling, Scottish Backhold, Cumberland Wrestling, Gouren and Collar-and-elbow) are a subset of folk wrestling and have their own regulatory bodies and some are affiliated to other organisations.
wrestling: The collegiate season starts in October or November and culminates with the National Championship tournament held in March.
wrestling: The wrestlers wear swimsuits rather than special wrestling uniforms.
wrestling: It is related to Uzbek kurash, Tuvan khuresh and Tatar and Bashkir көрәш (köräş).
wrestling: Folk wrestling styles are not recognized as international styles of wrestling by UWW.
wrestling: Shoot wrestling, a relative of catch and freestyle wrestling, is the foundation of Shooto, a combat sport and pioneer MMA organization founded in 1985.
wrestling: If no winner is determined, another 15 minutes—10 minutes for the pehlivan category—of wrestling ensues, wherein scores are kept to determine the victor.
wrestling: The style originally mirrored the rules used before the use of wrestling mats, and beach wrestling has been regarded as the oldest version of international competitive wrestling.
wrestling: Matches are fought with both grappling and striking techniques.
wrestling: Women's college wrestling in the U.S.
wrestling: are likely to have evolved from some common style.
wrestling: In gi grappling (GWG), athletes wear a kimono or gi.
wrestling: Amateur wrestling flourished throughout the early years of the North American colonies and would later serve as a popular activity at country fairs, holiday celebrations, and in military exercises.
wrestling: Dicaearchus wrote that Plato wrestled at the Isthmian games.
wrestling: Sambo is a martial art that originated in the Soviet Union (specifically Russia) in the 20th century.
wrestling: Greek mythology celebrates the rise of Zeus as ruler of the earth after a wrestling match with his father, Cronus.
wrestling: Rustam of the Shahnameh (Book Of Kings) is regarded by Iranian pahlevans as the greatest wrestler.
wrestling: The competitive wrestlers, the highly successful amateur wrestlers have such tremendous mental toughness.
wrestling: For example, some junior varsity and freshman competitors are not allowed in tournament competition due to the amount of mat time a wrestler would accrue in a short time period.
wrestling: Wrestling involves different grappling-type techniques, such as clinch fighting, throws and takedowns, joint locks, pins, and other grappling holds.
wrestling: A freestyle wrestler may instantly win a match by holding both of an opponent's scapula to the mat (known as a "fall").
wrestling: Points are allotted on the basis of throw amplitude, exposure of an opponent's back to the mat and opponent passivity.
wrestling: Unlike Olympic wrestling, oil wrestling matches may be won by achieving an effective hold of the kisbet.
wrestling: The term is used to distinguish the style from other wrestling styles used in other parts of the world, and from the styles contested at the Olympic Games: Greco-Roman wrestling and freestyle wrestling.
wrestling: Traditionally in this style, there was less use of storylines and angles to promote the matches which, for the most part, had the atmosphere of real wrestling competition.
wrestling: The origin of pahlavani wrestling goes back to ancient Persia and is said to have been practiced by mythological Iranian heroes.
wrestling: As with British/European wrestling, there are fewer and less contrived storylines and angles and there is a similar atmosphere of realistic sporting competition.
wrestling: In addition to the annual World Beach Wrestling Championships, beach wrestling has been contested at Youth Olympic Games, Asian Games, Down Under Games, Mediterranean Games and at the 2019 World Beach Games.
wrestling: A Greco-Roman wrestler may instantly win a match by holding both of an opponent's scapula to the mat (known as a "fall").
wrestling: Much of this direction can be attributed to the influence of two European catch wrestlers/coaches Karl Gotch and Billy Robinson whose matches in Japan early in the 1970s inspired considerable interest in the more purist grappling element of professional wrestling.
wrestling: Wrestlers from the period were known as hookers or shooters due to their legitimate skills – a dwindling number have remained in the business until modern times.
wrestling: Wrestling represents one of the oldest forms of combat sport.
wrestling: Greco-Roman wrestling and contemporary freestyle wrestling were soon regulated in formal competitions, in part resulting from the rise of gymnasiums and athletic clubs.
wrestling: Wrestling has also been an event at every modern Olympic Games since the 1904 games in St.
wrestling: The goal of the sport is to take down and control the opponent on the ground and potentially win a submission using chokes and joint locks.
wrestling: Collegiate wrestling (also known as folkstyle wrestling) is the commonly used name of wrestling practiced at the college and university level in the United States.
wrestling: Wrestling comes in different forms, the most popular being professional wrestling, which is a form of athletic theatre.
wrestling: Wrestling first appeared in the ancient Olympic Games as an event during the 18th Olympiad in 708 BC.
wrestling: For example, the Cornish Wrestling Association is affiliated to the British Wrestling Association which is linked to the UWW.
wrestling: Popular luchadores in Mexico have included El Santo, Blue Demon, Mil Máscaras, Perro Aguayo, Konnan, L.
wrestling: In 1520 at the Field of the Cloth of Gold pageant, Francis I of France threw fellow king Henry VIII of England in a wrestling match.
wrestling: The Epic of Gilgamesh: Gilgamesh established his credibility as a leader, after wrestling Enkidu.
wrestling: Some of the earliest references to wrestling can be found in wrestling mythology.
wrestling: For this reason it is also referred to as 'belt wrestling alysh' or 'alysh belt wrestling' (BWUWW).
wrestling: NCAA Divisions I and II, the NAIA, and the NJCAA, offer wrestling scholarships for student athletes.
wrestling: Shoot style featured a mix of amateur and catch wrestling, kickboxing and submission grappling.
wrestling: There have also been Inter-Celtic tournaments between Cornwall and Brittany dating back to the Field of the Cloth of Gold in 1520 through to the modern era with regular events since 1928.
wrestling: Throughout the contest the wrestlers must retain their hold on each other's belt.
wrestling: Collegiate women's wrestling uses two rulesets, freestyle in the NCAA and standard collegiate in the NCWA.
wrestling: Thus, the pehlivan aims to control his opponent by putting his arm through the latter's kisbet.
wrestling: Other legitimate competitive forms include Greco-Roman, freestyle, judo, sambo, folkstyle, catch, shoot, luta livre, submission, sumo, pehlwani, shuai jiao, and more.
wrestling: 1100 to 146 BC).
wrestling: This style, with modifications, is also practiced at the high school and middle school levels, and also for younger participants.
wrestling: Three are Olympic disciplines: Greco-Roman wrestling, men's freestyle wrestling and women's freestyle wrestling.
wrestling: Initially, the contests were similar to amateur matches, except there were no time limits, and submission and choke holds were allowed.
wrestling: In Ancient Greece wrestling occupied a prominent place in legend, literature, and philosophy.
wrestling: Celtic wrestling has an extensive history, with wrestling being mentioned in the Tailteann Games dating back from somewhere between 1839 BC to 632 BC (academics disagree) to the 12th century AD when the Normans invaded.
wrestling: There are a wide range of styles with varying rules, with both traditional historic and modern styles.
wrestling: It combines martial arts, calisthenics, strength training, and music, and was originally used to train warriors..
wrestling: It is an acronym for "self-defence without weapons" in Russian and had its origins in the Soviet armed forces.
wrestling: In no-gi (GNG), athletes wear shorts and a compression shirt called a rashguard.
wrestling: The Mahabharata describes a malla-dwandwa (wrestling match) between the accomplished wrestlers Bhima and Jarasandha.
wrestling: The wrestlers, known as pehlivanlar meaning "champion" wear a type of hand-stitched lederhosen called a kispetler, which are traditionally made of water buffalo hide, and most recently have been made of calfskin.
wrestling: Amateur wrestling coexisted with its professional counterpart until around the 1940s before the sport grew more theatrical.
wrestling: Judo is a popular sport in Japan as well as in France, Russia, and eastern Europe.
wrestling: Mexican professional wrestling, also known as lucha libre, is a style of wrestling using special holds (llaves) and aerial techniques.
wrestling: Early British settlers in America brought a strong wrestling tradition with them.
wrestling: The annual Kırkpınar tournament, held in Edirne in Turkish Thrace since 1362, is the oldest continuously running, sanctioned sporting competition in the world.
wrestling: The first annual NCAA Wrestling Championships were held in 1928 in Ames, Iowa.
wrestling: After the Roman conquest of the Greeks, Greek wrestling was absorbed by the Roman culture and became Roman wrestling.
wrestling: Japanese professional wrestling, also known as puroresu, is also treated more as a sport than the entertainment style of wrestling common in North America.
wrestling: Each luchador uses his own special wrestling style or estilo de lucha consisting of aerial attack moves, strikes and complex submission holds.
wrestling: Ken Shamrock won the first UFC Superfight Championship and the first King of Pancrase Openweight Championship in Japan.
wrestling: Since 1921, United World Wrestling (UWW) has regulated amateur wrestling as an athletic discipline, while professional wrestling, originally a legitimate sport, gradually became infused with theatrics but still requires athletic ability.
wrestling: Wrestlers such as Dan Severn, Don Frye, Mark Coleman, Randy Couture, Mark Kerr, Kazushi Sakuraba, Pat Miletich, and Dan Henderson won many of the early UFC tournaments along with other accolades.
wrestling: The international governing body for the sport, United World Wrestling (UWW), was established in 1912 in Antwerp, Belgium as the International Federation of Associated Wrestling Styles (FILA).
wrestling: Originally, matches had no set duration and could go on for one or two days, until one man was able to establish superiority, but in 1975 the duration was capped at 40 minutes for the başpehlivan and 30 minutes for the pehlivan category.
wrestling: Babylonian and Egyptian reliefs show wrestlers using various holds known in the present-day sport.
wrestling: Wrestlers may also wear spandex or athletic shorts.
wrestling: In the Book of Genesis, the Patriarch Jacob is said to have wrestled with God or an angel.
wrestling: This form of wrestling prioritizes upper body attacks, with an emphasis on explosive "high amplitude" throws.
wrestling: In France in the 19th century, early professional wrestling shows in the Greco-Roman style were often performed at the circus by the resident strongmen.
wrestling: Shoot style wrestling is retrospectively considered a precursor to mixed martial arts.
wrestling: The origins of wrestling go back around 15,000 to 17,000 years ago through cave drawings in France.
wrestling: Judo is a style of wrestling which is derived from jujitsu, a Japanese martial art.
wrestling: In Switzerland the local derivate of the German ringen, called schwingen, is a popular folk sport with local Schwingfest where regional competitions are played throughout the country.
wrestling: During the Middle Ages from the fifth to fifteenth century, wrestling remained popular and enjoyed the patronage of many royal families, including those of England, France, and Japan.
wrestling: The international rules have been modified in 2015 by UWW, with the current rules allowing wrestlers to score points via takedowns, pushing their opponent out of bounds, or bringing the opponent down to their back.
wrestling: Modern amateur pankration is a form of mixed martial arts (MMA) that incorporates techniques from multiple systems.
wrestling: Traditionally a match involves the best of three rounds, with no time limit.
wrestling: Freestyle wrestling became an Olympic event in 1904 and women's freestyle wrestling was added to the Olympics in 2004.
wrestling: Grappling is divided into two styles: no-gi and gi.
wrestling: Some promoters in the UK (and to a lesser extent France and Germany) still produce live shows in this style but face stiff competition from more American-styled rivals.
wrestling: This various styles would form what would become folkstyle wrestling, which is the most popular form of wrestling in the United States.
wrestling: Greco-Roman wrestling was contested at the first modern Olympics in 1896.
wrestling: Today, various countries around the world send national wrestling teams to the Olympics.
wrestling: In recent years this style of wrestling has also become popular in other countries.
wrestling: The Yellow Emperor fought the rebel Chi You using Shuai Jiao at the Battle of Zhoulu.
wrestling: uses freestyle wrestling rules in the NCAA and standard collegiate rules in the NCWA.
wrestling: The gi is used to grip the opponent in order to throw or choke them.
wrestling: It is considered one of the primary disciplines in MMA along with Brazilian jiu-jitsu, boxing, kickboxing/muay Thai, and judo.
wrestling: It is recognized by UNESCO as among the world's longest-running forms of sport.
wrestling: The settlers also found wrestling to be popular among Native Americans.
wrestling: This style allows the use of the wrestler's or his opponent's legs in offense and defense.
wrestling: Submission Wrestling incorporates techniques and holds from a variety of wrestling disciplines.
wrestling: 2300 BC) and Egyptian artwork (c.
wrestling: amateur wrestling in 1983.
wrestling: When the best American catch wrestlers discovered they could earn money with their skills, the professional counterpart was born.
wrestling: USA Wrestling, located in Colorado Springs, Colorado, was established as the national governing body of U.S.
wrestling: It is so called because the wrestlers douse themselves with olive oil.
wrestling: The Byzantine emperor Basil I, according to court historians, won in wrestling against a boastful wrestler from Bulgaria in the eighth century.
wrestling: Park and Místico.
wrestling: Folk wrestling describes a traditional form of wrestling unique to a culture or geographic region of the world that UWW does not administer rules for.
wrestling: Under the Greco-Roman ruleset, it is forbidden to attack the opponent below the belt in the execution of any action (restricting holds, trips, and active but not passive usage of the legs).
wrestling: Judo also allows some chokes and joint locks, although they are typically banned for children.
wrestling: The best wrestlers earn the title of pahlevan (hero).
wrestling: In Ancient Greece, Greek wrestling was a popular form of martial art (c.
wrestling: It is similar to freestyle wrestling, however wrestlers wear pants which extend from the waist to below the knees and a belt.
wrestling: As a wrestling style, judo is distinctive in that  practitioners, called judoka, wear a heavy jacket and trousers, called a gi, along with a belt.
wrestling: Arabic literature depicted Muhammad as a skilled wrestler, defeating a skeptic in a match at one point.
wrestling: Sambo was given status as an international style in 1966 by FILA, UWW's predecessor.
wrestling: Indian epics Ramayana and Mahabharata contain references to martial arts including wrestling.
wrestling: There are several organizations which oversee collegiate wrestling competition: NCAA Divisions I, II, and III, the NAIA, the NJCAA, the CCCAA, and the NCWA.
wrestling: Pankration (PK), from the Greek words pan and kratos and meaning "all of power", is a world heritage martial art which was introduced to the Ancient Olympic Games in 648 BC.
wrestling: This early style of combat was first called jiao di (butting with horns).
wrestling: Some high schools in the U.S.
wrestling: Its influences are varied, with techniques borrowed from sports ranging from the two international wrestling styles of Greco-Roman and freestyle to judo, jujitsu, European styles of folk wrestling, and even fencing.
wrestling: Many different wrestling techniques have been incorporated into martial arts, combat sports, and military systems.
wrestling: The International Federation of Celtic Wrestling (FILC) organises international competitions between wrestlers from these styles.
wrestling: Shuai jiao, a wrestling style originating in China, which according to legend, has a reported history of over 4,000 years.
wrestling: Popular Japanese wrestlers include Rikidozan, Giant Baba, Antonio Inoki, Mitsuharu Misawa, Kenta Kobashi, Shinya Hashimoto and Keiji Mutoh.
wrestling: This style later spread to circuses in Eastern Europe, particularly in Russia where it was a staple part of circuses in the Soviet era, where it was often advertised as "French wrestling." Ivan Poddubny achieved major stardom in his homeland and beyond during the interwar period.
wrestling: Wrestling has produced significantly more UFC champions than any other martial art.
wrestling: The rules for sport sambo are similar to those in competitive judo, with a variety of leg locks and defense holds from the various national wrestling styles in the Soviet Union, while not allowing chokeholds.
wrestling: 2000–1085 BC).
