xenophobia: Peter Szok argues that when the United States brought in large numbers of laborers from the Caribbean—called "Afro-Panamanians"—to build the Panama Canal (1905–1914), xenophobia emerged.
xenophobia: "Prejudice, Discrimination and the 'Fear of Difference'".
xenophobia: In 2004, the Young Patriots of Abidjan, a strongly nationalist organisation, rallied by the state media, plundered possessions of foreign nationals in Abidjan.
xenophobia: "Direct and indirect predictors of opposition to immigration in Europe: individual values, cultural values, and symbolic threat." Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies 46.3 (2020): 553–573.
xenophobia: In a severe drought, Boxer violence spread across Shandong and the North China Plain, destroying foreign property, attacking or murdering Christian missionaries and Chinese Christians.
xenophobia: Racism and Xenophobia were mitigated by the attitudes and norms of the British class system during the 19th century, in which race and nationality mattered less than social distinction: a black African tribal chief was unquestionably superior to a white English costermonger.
xenophobia: Ancient Romans also held notions of superiority over other peoples.
xenophobia: Many national and local political leaders engaged in rhetoric during 2007 and 2008 that maintained that the extraordinary rise in crime at the time was mainly a result of uncontrolled immigration of people of Roma origin from recent European Union member state Romania.
xenophobia: Al-Manar officials denied broadcasting any antisemitic incitement and they also stated that their group's position is anti-Israeli, not antisemitic.
xenophobia: Resisting Racism and Xenophobia: Global Perspectives on Race, Gender, and Human Rights (2005) excerpt
Hjerm, Mikael.
xenophobia: An increase in hate crimes targeting Ontario Muslims was reported after ISIS took responsibility for the November 2015 Paris attacks.
xenophobia: In an article in October 2000 columnist Adel Hammoda alleged in the state-owned Egyptian newspaper al-Ahram that Jews make Matza from the blood of non-Jewish children (see Blood libel).
xenophobia: Nyamnjoh, Francis B.
xenophobia: It has resulted in cases of discrimination, riots and racially motivated murders.
xenophobia: online
Sundstrom, Ronald R., and David Haekwon Kim.
xenophobia: In 2015, another widely documented series of xenophobic attacks occurred in South Africa, mostly against migrant Zimbabweans.
xenophobia: Following clashes between Peruvians and Venezuelan migrants at the Gamarra Market in Lima, the "Los Gallegos" chapter of the Tren de Aragua released a video stating: "There will be no peace for Peruvians who support xenophobia.
xenophobia: The most prominent case of anti-Indian racism was the ethnic cleansing of the Indian (called Asian) minority in Uganda by the strongman dictator and human rights violator Idi Amin.
xenophobia: In December 2005, a fight broke out between a group of volunteer surf lifesavers and Lebanese youth.
xenophobia: In Malaysia, xenophobia occurs regardless of race.
xenophobia: In 2008 and 2009 nine attacks took place against Romani in Hungary, resulting in six deaths and multiple injuries.
xenophobia: The UN envoy explained that although the Swiss authorities recognised the existence of racism and xenophobia, they did not view the problem as being serious.
xenophobia: There was never any specific policy titled "White Australia." The term was invented later to encapsulate a collection of policies that were designed to exclude people from Asia (particularly China) and the Pacific Islands (particularly Melanesia) from immigrating to Australia.
xenophobia: Muslim and Sikh Canadians have faced racism and discrimination in recent years, especially since the 2001 terrorist attacks on the U.S.
xenophobia: It is estimated that tens of thousands of migrants were displaced; property, businesses and homes were widely looted.
xenophobia: Bernasconi, Robert.
xenophobia: The international organisation Human Rights Watch (HRW) describes these conditions as "near-slavery" and attributes them to "deeply rooted gender, religious, and racial discrimination".
xenophobia: This represents a continuation of xenophobic attacks on Chinese Americans for 150 years.
xenophobia: In 1994 and 1995, gangs of armed youth destroyed the homes of foreign nationals living in Johannesburg, demanding that the police work to repatriate them to their home countries.
xenophobia: New Approaches to Understanding Racial Prejudice and Discrimination
Rydgren, Jens.
xenophobia: The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Navi Pillay, termed these attacks "disturbing" and called for Australia to investigate the matters further.
xenophobia: Auestad, Lene, ed.
xenophobia: The Party of Fear: The American Far Right from Nativism to the Militia Movement (U of North Carolina Press, 1988).
xenophobia: The perpetrators were usually young males of immigrant background from the Middle East.
xenophobia: In addition, ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics indicate xenophobic ideas about a necessity to conquer non-Egyptians, with Hittites in particular being referred to as "vile".
xenophobia: The Immigration Restriction Act 1901 (White Australia policy) effectively barred people of non-European descent from immigrating to Australia.
xenophobia: Quillian, Lincoln.
xenophobia: Xenophobia in South Africa has been present in both the apartheid and post–apartheid eras.
xenophobia: In 1998, Indonesia riots over higher food prices and rumors of hoarding by merchants and shopkeepers often degenerated into anti-Chinese attacks.
xenophobia: Expat surveys done by InterNations have ranked the country amongst the most unfriendly for expatriates.
xenophobia: In another incident, an Al-Manar commentator recently referred to "Zionist attempts to transmit AIDS to Arab countries".
xenophobia: Since the start of the migrant crisis, media outlets and state officials have raised concerns about increasing discrimination against migrants in the country, especially xenophobia and violence against the migrants.
xenophobia: Who is Charlie?
xenophobia: Lien Verpoest explores the era of the Napoleonic wars to identify the formation of conservative ideas ranging from traditionalism to ardent patriotism and xenophobia.
xenophobia: Jiyeon Kang reports a common pattern scapegoating dark-skinned migrants by gender, race and class.
xenophobia: It is well to remember that both Nationalists and Communists have struck this note.
xenophobia: online
Lee, Erika.
xenophobia: 45% of respondents believed Islam encourages violence.
xenophobia: New Zealand, which is 30 times smaller than Japan, accepted 1,140 refugees in 1999.
xenophobia: A new party emerged in the 1980s, Lega Nord.
xenophobia: In many cases the workers are unwilling to report their employers for fear of losing their jobs or further abuse.
xenophobia: According to CBS News, slaves have been sold for US$50 apiece.
xenophobia: Some studies suggest Brexit led to a rise in racist incidents, where locals became hostile to foreigners.
xenophobia: David Barry uses surveys to investigate the particularistic and xenophobic belief that all citizens should join Russia's dominant Orthodox religion.
xenophobia: Various Palestinian organizations and individuals have been regularly accused of being antisemitic.
xenophobia: As in other European countries, the Romani people faced disadvantages, including unequal treatment, discrimination, segregation and harassment.
xenophobia: South Africa also passed numerous acts intended to keep out Indians, such as the Immigrants Regulation Act of 1913, which provided for the exclusion of "undesirables", a group of people that included Indians.
xenophobia: Frayling, Christopher/ The Yellow Peril: Dr.
xenophobia: Cantle, Ted (2005).
xenophobia: online
Scully, Richard, and Andrekos Varnava, ed.
xenophobia: For centuries, the haratin lower class, mostly poor black Africans living in rural areas, have been considered natural slaves by these Moors.
xenophobia: The percentages were among the highest out of 66 nations surveyed.
xenophobia: Racism against indigenous people has been a current problem in Mexico.
xenophobia: doi:10.1057/9780230508712_4.
xenophobia: Poles, Jews and gypsies are on the same inferior level."
After the 1950s the steady arrival of Turkish workers led to xenophobia.
xenophobia: At first, the Nuremberg Race Laws only forbade racially mixed sexual relationships and marriages between Aryans and Jews but later they were extended to "Gypsies, Negroes or their bastard offspring".
xenophobia: During the acrimonious Brexit debate, xenophobia increased in London, especially against French living in the city.
xenophobia: In July 2009, six Breslov Hasidim were deported after attempting to enter Jordan to visit the tomb of Aaron / Sheikh Harun on Mount Hor, near Petra.
xenophobia: online
Neocosmos, Michael.
xenophobia: The practice of slavery in Mauritania is most dominant within the traditional upper class of the Moors.
xenophobia: Rapes, beatings, and murders of persons of European and Lebanese descent followed.
xenophobia: "Education, xenophobia and nationalism: A comparative analysis." Journal of ethnic and Migration Studies 27.1 (2001): 37–60.
xenophobia: online Archived 5 October 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Jolly, Seth K., and Gerald M.
xenophobia: Hostility towards the LGBT community has been recently reported, especially in Aceh.
xenophobia: A 2019 Ipsos poll also suggested that Japanese respondents had a relatively lower sympathy for refugees compared to most other countries in the survey.
xenophobia: Hostility between the British and Boers exacerbated by the Second Boer War led to rebellion by poor Afrikaners who looted British-owned shops.
xenophobia: Xenophobia in South Africa: A History (Palgrave Macmillan, 2018).
xenophobia: An assessment of the effects of Muslim population size, institutional characteristics and immigration-related media claims." Journal of ethnic and migration studies 46.3 (2020): 649–664.
xenophobia: Todd, Emmanuel.
xenophobia: A 2013 Swedish academic study stated that Venezuela was the most racist country in the Americas, followed by the Dominican Republic.
xenophobia: They are presented as accomplices and beneficiaries of the elite coalition allegedly taking traditional rights away from South Korean male citizens.
xenophobia: On 15 March 1911, a band of Maderista soldiers entered Torreón, Mexico, and massacred 303 Chinese and five Japanese.
xenophobia: Xenophobic attitudes toward the Chinese have also been present, sometimes in the form of robberies or hijackings, and a hate speech case in 2018 was put to court the year later with 11 offenders on trial.
xenophobia: Schlueter, Elmar, Anu Masso, and Eldad Davidov.
xenophobia: Kende, Anna, and Péter Krekó.
xenophobia: This led to commentaries involving hate speech and other racial prejudice mainly against Poles and Roma, but also aimed at other Central and Eastern European ethnic groups.
xenophobia: Of Fear and Strangers: A History of Xenophobia (2021), scholarly history focused on US and Europe; excerpt
xenophobia: A study that ran from 2002 to 2015 mapped the countries in Europe with the highest incidents of racial bias towards black people, based on data from 288,076 white Europeans.
xenophobia: These incidents were considered to be a key factor in a racially motivated confrontation the following weekend.
xenophobia: Saudi Arabian government officials and state religious leaders often promote the idea that Jews are conspiring to take over the entire world; as proof of their claims they publish and frequently cite The Protocols of the Elders of Zion as factual.
xenophobia: After China's defeat in war by Japan in 1895, villagers in North China feared the expansion of foreign spheres of influence and resented the extension of privileges to Christian missionaries.
xenophobia: At the 1517 Evil May Day riots in London, protestors attacked the prominence of foreigners in London wool and cloth businesses; historians have called the event xenophobic.
xenophobia: Native Papuans in the country have faced racism, and several reports have accused Indonesia of committing a "slow-motion genocide" in West Papua.
xenophobia: Racist attitudes are more commonly expressed towards immigrants from other Asian countries and Africa, and less so towards European and white North American immigrants who can occasionally receive what has been described as "overly kind treatment".
xenophobia: The official title of Jews became "subjects of the state".
xenophobia: The death toll after the attack stood at 56.
xenophobia: In March 2008, this population began a multiyear resettlement in third countries including the U.S, Canada, New Zealand, Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands and Australia.
xenophobia: Xenophobia (The Rosen Publishing Group, 2009).
xenophobia: Bukhair, Syed Attique Uz Zaman Hyder, et al.
xenophobia: There are no laws within the Kingdom of Thailand which criminalize racial discrimination and the use of racist cliches.
xenophobia: Xenophobia, prejudice, and right-wing populism in East-Central Europe
Krumpal, Ivar.
xenophobia: Anti-refugee sentiment has been significant in Thailand, with a 2016 Amnesty International survey indicating that 74% of surveyed Thais do not believe (to varying degrees) that people should be able to take refuge in other countries to escape war or persecution.
xenophobia: According to this report, discrimination based on skin colour in Switzerland is not exceptional, and affects immigrants decades after their immigration.
xenophobia: "Race, xenophobia, and punitiveness among the American public." Sociological Quarterly 59.3 (2018): 363–383.
xenophobia: The decision was to reduce the use of other languages, and insist on Russification.
xenophobia: (Karnac Books, 2013).
xenophobia: In 2006, rising levels of antisemitism were recorded in French schools.
xenophobia: In August 2009, Hamas refused to allow Palestinian children to learn about the Holocaust, which it called "a lie invented by the Zionists" and referred to Holocaust education as a "war crime".
xenophobia: The Association for Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI) published reports which documented racism in Israel, and the 2007 report suggested that anti-Arab racism was increasing in the country.
xenophobia: "The Radical Right and Anti-Immigrant Politics in Liberal Democracies since World War II: Evolution of a Political and Research Field." Polity 53.3 (2021): 394–417.
xenophobia: online
Bennett, David H.
xenophobia: The Township Franchise Ordinance of 1924 was intended to "deprive Indians of municipal franchise".
xenophobia: Black people are also reportedly overrepresented as criminals in the media.
xenophobia: According to a 2015 report by the OECD and EU Commission, 37% of young people born in the country with immigrant parents say they had experienced discrimination in their lives.
xenophobia: They were besieged for 55 days by the Imperial Army of the Chinese government and the Boxers.
xenophobia: health care), employment and lodging.
xenophobia: While the government was rounding up Arabs in preparation for the deportation, two girls died, reportedly after fleeing government forces, and three women suffered miscarriages.
xenophobia: London, UK: Palgrave Macmillan.
xenophobia: Related discrimination have also been reported with regards to mixed-race children, Chinese Korean, and North Korean immigrants.
xenophobia: Domestic workers, many of whom are indigenous women who have moved from rural villages to cities, often face discrimination including verbal, physical or sexual abuse.
xenophobia: It used the Implicit-association test (a reaction-based psychological test designed to measure implicit racial bias).
xenophobia: By the beginning of the 20th century, most European Jews lived in the so-called Pale of Settlement, the Western frontier of the Russian Empire consisting generally of the modern-day countries of Poland, Lithuania, Belarus and neighboring regions.
xenophobia: Akinola, Adeoye O.
xenophobia: Reports related to the tensions between the children of North African Muslim immigrants and North African Jewish children.
xenophobia: In 2008, a widely documented spate of xenophobic attacks occurred in Johannesburg.
xenophobia: Since 2017, China has come under intense international criticism for its treatment of one million Muslims (the majority of them are Uyghurs, a Turkic ethnic minority mostly in Xinjiang) who are being held in detention camps without any legal process.
xenophobia: The Chinese were easy to identify in northern cities and were frequent targets especially in Sonora in the 1930s.
xenophobia: As of 20 April 2015, 7 people had died and more than 2000 foreigners had been displaced.
xenophobia: "Xenophobia, prejudice, and right-wing populism in East-Central Europe." Current Opinion in Behavioral Sciences 34 (2020): 29–33.
xenophobia: "A longitudinal investigation of integration/multiculturalism policies and attitudes towards immigrants in European countries." Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies (2021): 1–20.
xenophobia: It was led by a new group, the ‘Militia United in Righteousness', the group was popularly known as the Boxers because many of its members had practiced Chinese martial arts, at the time, these martial arts were popularly referred to as Chinese Boxing.
xenophobia: There is also a significant degree of xenophobia towards neighbouring Singaporeans and Indonesians.
xenophobia: "Nativism and prejudice against immigrants," in A companion to American immigration, ed.
xenophobia: An increase in immigration to South Korea since the 2000s catalyzed more overt expressions of racism, as well as criticism of those expressions.
xenophobia: Philosopher Cornel West has argued that "racism is an integral element within the very fabric of American culture and society.
xenophobia: The attacks drew international condemnation.
xenophobia: Despite improving economic and social conditions of indigenous Mexicans, discrimination against them continues to this day and there are few laws to protect indigenous Mexicans from discrimination.
xenophobia: There were recorded well over a hundred antisemitic attacks in Belgium in 2009.
xenophobia: The Wiley Network.
xenophobia: Historically, Mexicans with light skin tones had absolute control over dark skinned Amerindians due to the structure of the Spanish colonial caste system.
xenophobia: This effectively halted Indian immigration.
xenophobia: Swiss People's Party claims that Swiss communities have a democratic right to decide who can or cannot be Swiss.
xenophobia: Of Fear and Strangers: A History of Xenophobia (2021), scholarly history focused on US and Europe; excerpt
Minkenberg, Michael.
xenophobia: Brown and S.
xenophobia: Anti-Romani sentiment in Italy takes the form of hostility, prejudice, discrimination or racism directed at Romani people.
xenophobia: There were several cases of antisemitism in Saudi Arabia and it is common within the country's religious circles.
xenophobia: There's no reliable data for the total number of Roma people living in Italy, but estimates put it between 140,000 and 170,000.
xenophobia: Howard Gutman believes that much of Muslim hatred of Jews stems from the ongoing Arab–Israeli conflict and that peace would significantly reduce antisemitism.
xenophobia: The former prime minister Göran Persson described these results as "surprising and terrifying".
xenophobia: Muscovites especially became more xenophobic.
xenophobia: Khaled Diab of The Guardian wrote in 2012 that demonisation was a two-way street, with Palestinians in Israel reportedly holding negative stereotypes of Israelis as devious, violent, cunning and untrustworthy.
xenophobia: Newspapers have frequently reported on and criticized discrimination against immigrants, in forms such as being paid lower than the minimum wage, having their wages withheld, unsafe work conditions, physical abuse, or general denigration.
xenophobia: Now they are threatening to kill us."
xenophobia: "Prejudice as a response to perceived group threat: Population composition and anti-immigrant and racial prejudice in Europe." American Sociological Review (1995): 586–611.
xenophobia: Polity Press, 2015, France.
xenophobia: They were unabashedly xenophobic." The Boxers were overthrown by an Eight Nation Alliance of American, Austro-Hungarian, British, French, German, Italian, Japanese, and Russian troops—20,000 in all—that invaded China to lift the siege in August 1900.
xenophobia: Reports of Sierra Leonean, Indonesian and Nepalese workers suffering abuse in Kuwait have prompted the 3 countries' governments to ban its citizens from being employed as domestic workers there.
xenophobia: Racism in Mexico has a long history.
xenophobia: Asian maids who work in the country have been victims of racism and other forms of discrimination, foreign workers have been raped, exploited, under- or unpaid, physically abused, overworked and locked in their places of employment.
xenophobia: ISBN 978-0-230-50871-2.
xenophobia: Sharon Yoon and Yuki Asahina argue that Zaitokukai, a right-wing organization, succeeded in framing Korean minorities as undeserving recipients of Japanese welfare benefits.
xenophobia: Comic Empires: Imperialism in Cartoons, Caricature, and Satirical Art (Manchester UP, 2020) 
Strabac, Zan, Toril Aalberg, and Marko Valenta.
xenophobia: The Menzies and Holt governments effectively dismantled the policies between 1949 and 1966 and the Whitlam government passed laws to ensure that race would be totally disregarded as a component for immigration to Australia in 1973.
xenophobia: Isi Leibler of the Jerusalem Center for Public affairs argues that Israeli Jews are troubled by "increasingly hostile, even treasonable outbursts by Israeli Arabs against the state" while it is at war with neighboring countries.
xenophobia: Surveys conducted in 2017 and 2019 have shown that 40 to nearly 50% of the foreigners who were surveyed have experienced some form of discrimination.
xenophobia: Gaertner, (Blackwell, 2003) pp.
xenophobia: Thränhardt, Dietrich.
xenophobia: However the revolution of 1910–20 saw a surge in xenophobia and nationalism based on "mestizaje." The community divided into the economically prosperous Lebanese Mexicans who took pride in a distinct Lebanese-Mexican identity, while the downscale remainder often merged into the mestizo community.
xenophobia: In the 2000s, "skinheads" were especially visible in attacking anything foreign.
xenophobia: Nazi Germany's Directive No.1306 stated: "Polishness equals subhumanity.
xenophobia: The Israeli government spokesman responded that the Israeli government was "committed to fighting racism whenever it raises its ugly head and is committed to full equality to all Israeli citizens, irrespective of ethnicity, creed or background, as defined by our declaration of independence".
xenophobia: Identity and intolerance: nationalism, racism, and xenophobia in Germany and the United States (Cambridge UP, 2002) 16 essays by scholars.
xenophobia: These laws deprived all Jews (including half-Jews and quarter-Jews) and all other non-Aryans of German citizenship.
xenophobia: Most xenophobia is towards foreign labourers, who normally came from Indonesia, Bangladesh and Africa.
xenophobia: Historian Larissa Schwartz argues that Kang Youwei had successfully organized the prosperous Chinese businessmen there, making them a visible target for class antagonism made extreme by xenophobia.
xenophobia: online
FitzGerald, David Scott, and David Cook-Martín.
xenophobia: online
Davidov, Eldad, et al.
xenophobia: The strongest bias was found in Czech Republic, Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine, Malta, Moldova, Bulgaria, Italy, Slovakia, and Portugal.
xenophobia: Theresa Alfaro-Velcamp argues that the Porfiriato, 1876–1910 promoted immigration from the Middle East.
xenophobia: Systematic persecution resulted from economic, political, and psychological fears of the Chinese, and the government showed little interest in protecting them.
xenophobia: According to a May 2008 poll 68% of Italians, wanted to see all of the country's approximately 150,000 Gypsies, many of them Italian citizens, expelled.
xenophobia: Moreover, political pressures in the 1970s and 1980s restricted the role of the Chinese Indonesian in politics, academics, and the military.
xenophobia: "Xenophobia and the European Union." Comparative politics (2000): 419–436.
xenophobia: We will begin to kill all Peruvian mototaxi drivers."
xenophobia: Recently the goal of creating a more inclusive national identity has been emphasized.
xenophobia: The Saudi Arabian media often attacks Jews in books, in news articles, in its Mosques and with what some describe as antisemitic satire.
xenophobia: In the 2021 Swiss referendums, the electorate banned the wearing of a full face covering, which some Orthodox Muslim women wear.
xenophobia: When a Mexican of a darker-skinned tone marries one of a lighter skinned-tone, it is common for them say that they are 'making the race better' (mejorando la raza)".
xenophobia: In 2005, a United Nations report expressed concerns about racism in Japan and it also stated that the government's recognition of the depth of the problem was not total.
xenophobia: Some black people in China were evicted from their homes by police and told to leave China within 24 hours, due to disinformation that they and other foreigners were spreading the virus.
xenophobia: One Jewish father also told that his child after school had been taken by a Muslim mob (though managed to escape), reportedly "to be taken out to the forest and hanged because he was a Jew".
xenophobia: In the case of telenovelas, Brazilians of darker skin tone are typically depicted as housekeepers or in positions of lower socioeconomic standing.
xenophobia: Many pogroms accompanied the Revolution of 1917 and the ensuing Russian Civil War, an estimated 70,000 to 250,000 civilian Jews were killed in the atrocities throughout the former Russian Empire; the number of Jewish orphans exceeded 300,000.
xenophobia: Use of the word "racism" became more widespread after 1936, although the term "race hatred" was used in the late 1920s by sociologist Frederick Hertz.
xenophobia: Just 305 persons were recognized as refugees by Japan from 1981, when Japan ratified the UN Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, to 2002.
xenophobia: Black Africans were considered especially exotic, and perhaps they were considered threateningly alien, so they are seldom if ever mentioned in Roman literature without some negative connotations.
xenophobia: Violent attacks against indigenous Mexicans are moderately common and many times go unpunished.
xenophobia: "Where is xenophobia in the fight against racism?." Critical Philosophy of Race 2.1 (2014): 5–19.
xenophobia: After World War II official national policy was to bring in students from Communist countries in East Europe and Asia for advanced training in Communist leadership roles.
xenophobia: excerpt
Gray, Christopher J.
xenophobia: The major scholarly history; excerpt;  also see online review
Makari, George.
xenophobia: A 2018 poll by Pew Research Center also suggested there to be particularly widespread anti-refugee sentiment among surveyed Israelis compared to the people from other selected countries.
xenophobia: Peoples living in present-day Greece, Sudan, and Turkey, for instance, were referred to by various names in Egyptian.
xenophobia: In the Sudan, black African captives in the civil war were often enslaved, and female prisoners were often abused sexually, with their Arab captors claiming that Islamic law grants them permission.
xenophobia: According to Italian sociologist Guido Bolaffi, xenophobia can also be exhibited as an "uncritical exaltation of another culture" which is ascribed "an unreal, stereotyped and exotic quality".
xenophobia: 177–201 excerpt
Awan, Muhammad Safeer.
xenophobia: The government of Lebanon has not criticized Hezbollah's continued broadcast of antisemitic material on television.
xenophobia: State Department Country Report stated that Israeli law prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, and the Israeli government effectively enforced these prohibitions.
xenophobia: Wright has argued that the combination of Chinese nationalism and xenophobia had a major impact on the Chinese worldview in the first half of the 20th century.
xenophobia: In 2016, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported that "Researchers who track xenophobia in Russia have recorded an "impressive" decrease in hate crimes as the authorities appear to have stepped up pressure on far-right groups".
xenophobia: Media related to Xenophobia at Wikimedia Commons
 Quotations related to Xenophobia at Wikiquote
xenophobia: Violence spread to other southern suburbs of Sydney, where more assaults occurred, including two stabbings and attacks on ambulances and police officers.
xenophobia: These fears and irritations provided a mass sounding board for what otherwise might have been rather arid denunciations of imperialists.
xenophobia: Community Cohesion.
xenophobia: In light of this event, the Australian Government started a Helpline for Indian students to report such incidents.
xenophobia: "Global terror and the rise of xenophobia/Islamophobia: An analysis of American cultural production since September 11." Islamic Studies (2010): 521–537.
xenophobia: National and local leaders declared their plans to expel Roma from settlements in and around major cities and to deport illegal immigrants.
xenophobia: institutional, legal, and societal discrimination against the country's Arab citizens." 
The 2010 U.S.
xenophobia: The Political Economy of Xenophobia in Africa (Springer, 2018) 128 pp.
xenophobia: Makari, George.
xenophobia: Laws, including the Race Relations Act 1965, were passed in the 1960s that specifically prohibited racial discrimination.
xenophobia: Mohammed Salmawy, the editor of Al-Ahram Hebdo, "defended the use of old European myths like the blood libel against Jews" in his newspapers.
xenophobia: online
Bordeau, Jamie.
xenophobia: "New approaches to understanding racial prejudice and discrimination." Annual Review of Sociology 32 (2006): 299–328.
xenophobia: A poll in 2009 by Maclean's revealed that 28% of Canadians viewed Islam favourably, and 30% viewed the Sikh religion favourably.
xenophobia: Former Prime Minister Taro Aso called Japan a "one race" nation.
xenophobia: There, as you know, there were Macedonians and Thracians and Illyrians, all most warlike nations, here Syrians and Asiatic Greeks, the most worthless peoples among mankind and born for slavery.
xenophobia: During the civil war era (1917–1922) both the Bolsheviks and the Whites employed nationalism and xenophobia as weapons to delegitimise the opposition.
xenophobia: In 2010, the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation after one year of research, revealed that antisemitism was common among Norwegian Muslims.
xenophobia: According to the 2004 U.S.
xenophobia: The Boxer Rebellion was a violent anti-foreign, anti-Christian, and anti-imperialist uprising which occurred in China between 1899 and 1901.
xenophobia: George Makari says that the Boxers, "promoted a violent hatred of all those from other lands and made no effort to distinguish the beneficent from the rapacious ones....
xenophobia: It shifted to xenophobia and the demand that job priority be accorded to native Italian workers.
xenophobia: Conservatives generally controlled Russia in the 19th century, and imposed xenophobia in education and the academy.
xenophobia: such as in a speech attributed to Manius Acilius:
xenophobia: Resisting Racism and Xenophobia: Global Perspectives on Race, Gender, and Human Rights (2005) 
Heath, Anthony, et al.
xenophobia: Former Likud MK and Minister of Defense Moshe Arens has criticized the treatment of minorities in Israel, saying that they did not bear the full obligation of Israeli citizenship, nor were they extended the full privileges of citizenship.
xenophobia: "What factors explain anti-Muslim prejudice?
xenophobia: Japan accepted just 16 refugees in 1999, while the United States took in 85,010 for resettlement, according to the UNHCR.
xenophobia: The survey, published as mobs in Naples burned down Gypsy camps that month, revealed that the majority also wanted all Gypsy camps in Italy to be demolished.
xenophobia: "The political uses of xenophobia in England, France and Germany." Party politics 1.3 (1995): 323–345.
xenophobia: Niger's government eventually suspended their controversial decision to deport the Arabs.
xenophobia: Following the riots and murders of other Africans from 2008 and 2015, violence again broke out in 2019.
xenophobia: The government of Sudan insists that the whole matter is no more than the traditional tribal feuding over resources.
xenophobia: Harrison, Faye V.
xenophobia: The climax was reached when Ilan Halimi was tortured to death by the so-called "Barbarians gang", led by Youssouf Fofana.
xenophobia: A number of discriminatory laws against Chinese Indonesians were enacted by the government of Indonesia.
xenophobia: Freedman points to the electoral system, the centrality of ethnic parties, gerrymandering, and systematic discrimination against the Chinese in education and jobs as critical factors in xenophobia.
xenophobia: "Cultivating citizenship through xenophobia in Gabon, 1960–1995." Africa today 45.3/4 (1998): 389–409 online
Harrison, Faye V.
xenophobia: It has resulted in widespread discrimination, segregation and serious violence, especially during partition and the Troubles.
xenophobia: "Xenophobia and racism." Critical philosophy of race 2.1 (2014): 20–45.
xenophobia: "Islamophobia in the West and Post 9/11 Era." International Affairs and Global Strategy 78 (2019): 23–32.
xenophobia: There are also substantial accounts of abuses against migrant domestic workers in Lebanon, notably from Ethiopia, Bangladesh, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Sudan, and other countries in Asia and Africa, exacerbated by the Kafala system, or "sponsorship system".
xenophobia: A 2016 GlobeScan/BBC World Service poll found that 79% of Russian respondents disapproved of accepting Syrian refugees, the highest percentage out of 18 countries surveyed.
xenophobia: Anti-US and anti-Israeli sentiment had led some Palestinians to support the 2001 September 11 attacks in New York.
xenophobia: Their population numbered about 150,000.
xenophobia: Israeli people also have a long history of discrimination towards Palestinians
xenophobia: However, the rabbi of Stockholm's Orthodox Jewish community, Meir Horden, said, "It's not true to say that the Swedes are antisemitic.
xenophobia: Xenophobia in South Korea has been recognized by scholars and the United Nations as a widespread social problem.
xenophobia: Calls for violence against whites and non-Ivorians were broadcast on national radio and TV after the Young Patriots seized control of its offices.
xenophobia: Edward Day.
xenophobia: According to a report by Human Rights Watch, the Ivory Coast government is guilty of fanning ethnic hatred for its own political ends.
xenophobia: "Attitudes towards Muslim immigrants: Evidence from survey experiments across four countries." Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies 40.1 (2014): 100–118.
xenophobia: It was a major factor in the separation of Singapore in 1965 to become an independent, primarily Chinese nation.
xenophobia: Expats and South Asian minorities have faced increased xenophobia during the COVID-19 pandemic.
xenophobia: In 2009, the Belgian city of Antwerp, often referred to as Europe's last shtetl, experienced a surge in antisemitic violence.
xenophobia: Diène pointed out that representatives of minority communities said they experienced serious racism and discrimination, notably for access to public services (e.g.
xenophobia: In addition to the many victims among the various tribes of the northern and southern regions of the country that have perished in the ongoing conflict, white foreigners residing or visiting Ivory Coast have also been subjected to violent attacks.
xenophobia: "Xenophobia and Immigrant Contact: French Public Attitudes Toward Immigration" The Social Science Journal (2014) 51#3: 464–473.
xenophobia: Even as Zaitokukai declined, the perceptions of a Korean internal threat powerfully influences public fears.
xenophobia: In the first half of 2009, an estimated 631 recorded acts of antisemitism took place in France, more than the whole of 2008.
xenophobia: The 2009 Swiss minaret referendum banned the construction of new minarets—towers traditionally attached to mosques—by a 57 to 43 popular vote of the country.
xenophobia: These students encountered severe xenophobia on campus.
xenophobia: Studies published in 2014 and 2015 suggested that racism was on the rise in the UK, with more than one third of those polled admitting they were racially prejudiced.
xenophobia: Xenophobia and the new middle class.
xenophobia: In 1959, President Sukarno approved PP 10/1959 that forced Chinese Indonesians to close their businesses in rural areas and relocate into urban areas.
xenophobia: However a 2019 EU survey, Being Black in the EU, ranked the UK as the least racist in the 12 Western European countries surveyed.
xenophobia: He also announced that he would appoint a special coordinator for fighting racism and antisemitism.
xenophobia: Unlike neighboring nations which were colonized, Thailand's history as an uncolonized state further shaped its existing laws.
xenophobia: This followed remarks by Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu stating that the migrants should "pack their bags and leave".
xenophobia: Negative stereotypes are often linked to Romani unemployment and reliance on state benefits.
xenophobia: In 2004, France experienced rising levels of Islamic antisemitism and acts that were publicized around the world.
xenophobia: Insiders and Outsiders: Citizenship and Xenophobia in Contemporary Southern Africa (Zed, 2006) 
Quillian, Lincoln.
xenophobia: Sectarianism between Ulster Protestants and Irish Catholics in Northern Ireland has been called a form of racism by some international bodies.
xenophobia: This is the hieroglyph for a hilly country or the desert– indicating 'foreign land' (khaset)...By contrast, Egypt (Kemet/Black land) is written with the determinative for a town.
xenophobia: In 2007, over 7,000 members of the community petitioned for asylum in the United States, citing antisemitism in France.
xenophobia: According to the Hungarian curia (supreme court), these murders were motivated by anti-Romani sentiment and sentenced the perpetrators to life imprisonment.
xenophobia: Thousands of students gathered outside the Royal Melbourne Hospital where one of the victims was admitted.
xenophobia: Jordanian authorities state that the policy is to ensure the Jewish tourists' safety.
xenophobia: A 2017 report by the University of Oslo Center for Research on Extremism tentatively suggests that "individuals of Muslim background stand out among perpetrators of antisemitic violence in Western Europe".
xenophobia: Surveys from Pew Research Center have also suggested that negative views of refugees and Muslims are held by the majority of the country's locals.
xenophobia: According to a 2012 survey, 18% of Turks in Germany believe that Jews are inferior human beings.
xenophobia: Modern-Day Xenophobia: Critical Historical and Theoretical Perspectives on the Roots of Anti-Immigrant Prejudice (Springer.
xenophobia: 2018) 129 pp, theoretical
xenophobia: New xenophobia in Europe (Martinus Nijhoff, 1995).
xenophobia: The racial tension between the dominant poor Malay Muslims and the minority wealthier Chinese has long characterized Malaysia.
xenophobia: They survived by sticking together, but developed a hostility toward the Soviet leadership.
xenophobia: online
De Master, Sara, and Michael K.
xenophobia: A government study in 2006 estimated that 5% of the total adult population and 39% of adult Muslims "harbour systematic antisemitic views".
xenophobia: During its Edo period, Japan had successfully isolated itself from the outside world, allowing anti-foreign sentiments and myths to multiply unchecked by actual observation.
xenophobia: The United Nations special rapporteur on racism, Doudou Diène, has observed that Switzerland suffers from racism, discrimination and xenophobia.
xenophobia: However, Hezbollah has directed strong rhetoric against both Israel and Jews, and it has cooperated in publishing and distributing outright antisemitic literature.
xenophobia: Given ancient Egypt's long history, Egyptians encountered a number of different peoples.
xenophobia: Speaking to the World Jewish Congress in December 2009, the French Interior Minister Hortefeux described the acts of antisemitism as "a poison to our republic".
xenophobia: Fu Manchu and the Rise of Chinaphobia (2014); role of popular culture in promoting xenophobia against Chinese.
xenophobia: The 2005 Cronulla riots were a series of race riots and outbreaks of mob violence in Sydney's southern suburb Cronulla which resulted from strained relations between Anglo-Celtic and (predominantly Muslim) Lebanese Australians.
xenophobia: The first example for xenophobic riot in the Netherlands were the riots in Afrikaanderwijk, in which the houses of Turkish people were attacked and windows were smashed.
xenophobia: From 'Foreign Natives' to 'Native Foreigners': Explaining Xenophobia in Post-apartheid South Africa, Citizenship and Nationalism, Identity and Politics (2010).
xenophobia: On 30 May 2009, Indian students protested against what they claimed were racist attacks, blocking streets in central Melbourne.
xenophobia: Former British colonies in Sub-Saharan Africa have many citizens of South Asian descent.
xenophobia: According to one source, "...all the names have at the end the same hieroglyphic sign– a determinative or taxogram– indicating the word group.
xenophobia: online Archived 5 October 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Baumgartl, Bernd, and Adrian Favell, eds.
xenophobia: In September 2000, the U.S.
xenophobia: online
Baker, Joseph O., David Cañarte, and L.
xenophobia: Racism has been observed as having a correlation between factors such as levels of unemployment and immigration in an area.
xenophobia: In a 2010–2014 World Values Survey, 44.2% of South Koreans reported they would not want an immigrant or foreign worker as a neighbor.
xenophobia: "Estimating the Prevalence of Xenophobia and Anti-Semitism in Germany: A Comparison of Randomized Response and Direct Questioning." Social Science Research (2012) 41: 1387–1403.
xenophobia: Slavery in Mauritania persists despite its abolition in 1980 and mostly affects the descendants of black Africans abducted into slavery who now live in Mauritania as "black Moors" or haratin and who partially still serve the "white Moors", or bidhan, as slaves.
xenophobia: In Quebec in particular, only 17% of respondents had a favourable view of Islam.
xenophobia: A 2016 survey from The Environics Institute, which was a follow-up to a study conducted 10 years prior, found that there may be discriminating attitudes that may be a residual of the effects of the 11 September 2001 attacks in the United States.
xenophobia: In the late 19th century, especially after nationalistic uprisings in Poland in the 1860s, the government displayed xenophobia in its hostility toward ethnic minorities that did not speak Russian.
xenophobia: Expressions of Chinese xenophobia and discriminatory practices, such as the exclusion of black customers from restaurants, were criticized by foreign governments and members of the diplomatic corps.
xenophobia: Sieradzk also stated that approximately 30 Jewish families have emigrated from Malmö to Israel in the past year, specifically to escape from harassment.
xenophobia: Using surveys from 1996, 2004, and 2012, Hannah S.
xenophobia: As a result, they were thereafter constrained professionally to becoming entrepreneurs and professional managers in trade, manufacturing, and banking.
xenophobia: Members of every major American ethnic and religious minority group have perceived discrimination in their dealings with members of other minority racial and religious groups.
xenophobia: Even after the fall of Communism foreign students faced hostility on campus.
xenophobia: This indicates that Egyptians regarded their part of the world as cultivated, ordered and civilized, while the other countries were not." This indicates an early example of a xenophobic attitude towards other peoples.
xenophobia: This can be interpreted as a self-attack on their ethnicity.
xenophobia: Xenophobia in popular literature targeted Germans in the early 20th centuries, based on fears of militarism and espionage.
xenophobia: Nationalism and the Body Politic: Psychoanalysis and the Rise of Ethnocentrism and Xenophobia.
xenophobia: In 2008, a Pew Research Center survey found that negative views concerning Jews were most common in the three predominantly Arab nations which were polled, with 97% of Lebanese having an unfavorable opinion of Jews, 95% of Egyptians and 96% of Jordanians.
xenophobia: Negative views of Muslims have varied across different parts of Europe, and Islamophobic hate crimes have been reported across the region.
xenophobia: Such interracial relationships were known as "racial pollution" Rassenschande, and they became a criminal and punishable offence under the race laws.
xenophobia: Another report has also noted differences in how the media and some Japanese treat visitors from the West as compared to those from East Asia, with the latter being viewed much less positively than the former.
xenophobia: "America first, immigrants last: American xenophobia then and now." Journal of the Gilded Age and Progressive Era 19.1 (2020): 3–18.
xenophobia: In 2020 the COVID-19 epidemic was often blamed on China, leading to attacks on Chinese Americans.
xenophobia: online
Schlueter, Elmar, Anu Masso, and Eldad Davidov.
xenophobia: Finzsch, Norbert, and Dietmar Schirmer, eds.
xenophobia: The Nazi Party's racial policy and the Nuremberg Race Laws against Jews and other non-Aryans represented the most explicit racist policies in twentieth century Europe.
xenophobia: Travel warnings for Australia were issued by some countries but were later removed.
xenophobia: "Contested terrain: explaining divergent patterns of public opinion towards immigration within Europe." (2020): 475–488.
xenophobia: The episode generated worldwide attention and denunciation of xenophobia.
xenophobia: Thousands of expatriates and white or ethnic Lebanese Ivorians fled the country.
xenophobia: After 2010, xenophobia became increasingly prevalent in the widely used social media.
xenophobia: and the spillover effect of the United States' war on terror.
xenophobia: Also in March, the Swedish newspaper Skånska Dagbladet reported that attacks on Jews in Malmö totaled 79 in 2009, about twice as many as the previous year, according to police statistics.
xenophobia: A 2017 Chatham House poll of more than 10,000 people in 10 European countries had on average 55% agreeing that all further migration from Muslim-majority countries should be stopped, while 20% disagreed.
xenophobia: by Reed Ueda (2006) pp.
xenophobia: Social attitudes have changed among most urban Moors, but in rural areas, the ancient divide remains.
xenophobia: The allies imposed the Boxer Protocol in 1901, with a massive annual cash indemnity to be paid by the Chinese government.
xenophobia: Anti-Immigrantism in Western Democracies: Statecraft, desire and the politics of exclusion (Routledge, 2003).
xenophobia: In 1991–92, Bhutan is said to have deported between 10,000 and 100,000 ethnic Nepalis (Lhotshampa).
xenophobia: The Nazi racial theory regarded Poles and other Slavic peoples as racially inferior Untermenschen.
xenophobia: Yakushko, Oksana.
xenophobia: "The "Othering" of Disease: Xenophobia During Past Pandemics".
xenophobia: Majority opposition was found in Poland (71%), Austria (65%), Belgium (64%), Hungary (64%), France (61%), Greece (58%), Germany (53%), and Italy (51%).
xenophobia: Despite the majority of the country's population being of mixed (Pardo), African, or indigenous heritage, depictions of non-European Brazilians on the programming of most national television networks is scarce and typically relegated for musicians/their shows.
xenophobia: In the Netherlands, antisemitic incidents, from verbal abuse to violence, are reported, allegedly connected with Islamic youth, mostly boys of Moroccan descent.
xenophobia: Due to Tren de Aragua's heavy presence in Lima, there were increased sentiments of xenophobia against Venezuelans.
xenophobia: Chapman, et al.
xenophobia: The mayors of Rome and Milan signed "Security Pacts" in May 2007 that "envisaged the forced eviction of up to 10,000 Romani people".
xenophobia: Increases in abuse occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic.
xenophobia: One analysis of the report summarized it thus: "Over two-thirds of Israeli teens believe that Arabs are less intelligent, uncultured and violent.
xenophobia: Culling the Masses: The Democratic Origins of Racist Immigration Policy in the Americas (Harvard UP, 2014) excerpt
Lee, Erika.
xenophobia: With the spread of the pandemic and the formation of COVID-19 hotspots, such as those in Asia, Europe, and the Americas, discrimination against people from these hotspots was reported.
xenophobia: The Jordanian ambassador to Israel replied to a complaint by a religious Jew who was denied entry by stating that security concerns required that travelers who are entering the Hashemite Kingdom should not do so with prayer shawls (Tallit) and phylacteries (Tefillin).
xenophobia: online
Doty, Roxanne Lynn.
xenophobia: In August 2003, senior Hamas official Dr Abd Al-Aziz Al-Rantisi wrote in the Hamas newspaper Al-Risala:It is no longer a secret that the Zionists were behind the Nazis' murder of many Jews, and agreed to it, with the aim of intimidating them and forcing them to immigrate to Palestine.
xenophobia: According to Gilda Zazzara, it started with identity-based claims and secessionist proposals for the north to break away from southern Italy.
xenophobia: Dovido, John F., Kerry Kawakami, and Kelly R.
xenophobia: Xenophobia (from Ancient Greek  ξένος (xénos) 'strange, foreign, or alien' and  φόβος (phóbos) 'fear') is the fear or dislike of people who are perceived as being foreign or strange.
xenophobia: It is widespread among ethnic Russians and is increasing.
xenophobia: This was a 100% increase from the year before.
xenophobia: The extent and the targets of xenophobic attitudes in the United Kingdom have varied over time.
xenophobia: "Implicit and Explicit Attitudes: Examination of the Relationship between Measures of Intergroup Bias." in Blackwell Handbook of Social Psychology: Intergroup Processes ed by R.
xenophobia: According to scholar Julia Lovell, there has been a history of sinophobia dating back to the early 20th century, propagated by writers like Charles Dickens, which has endured to the present day with current media depictions of China.
xenophobia: Bloeme Evers-Emden, an Amsterdam resident and Auschwitz survivor, was quoted in the newspaper Aftenposten in 2010: "The antisemitism now is even worse than before the Holocaust.
xenophobia: They were brought by the British Empire from British India to do clerical work in imperial service.
xenophobia: A 2016 Gallup International poll had roughly 74% of Palestinian respondents agreeing there was religious superiority, 78% agreeing there was racial superiority, and 76% agreeing there was cultural superiority.
xenophobia: online
Tafira, Hashi Kenneth.
xenophobia: America for Americans: A History of Xenophobia in the United States (2019).
xenophobia: "The logic of xenophobia." Rationality and society 16.2 (2004): 123–148.
xenophobia: reports a steady increase in Russians' negative attitudes toward seven outgroups.
xenophobia: The actual number of refugees who were initially deported is debated by both sides.
xenophobia: The group had taken a ferry from Sinai, Egypt because they understood that Jordanian authorities were making it hard for visible Jews to enter their country from Israel.
xenophobia: Critics of the policy have described it as the Sinicization of Xinjiang and some have also called it an ethnocide or a cultural genocide.
xenophobia: The antisemitism has become more violent.
