yoga: Richard King (1999): "Yoga in the more traditional sense of the term has been practised throughout South Asia and beyond and involves a multitude of techniques leading to spiritual and ethical purification.
yoga: Yoga as exercise has spread around the world.
yoga: In Hinduism, practices include jnana yoga, bhakti yoga, karma yoga, kundalini yoga, and hatha yoga.
yoga: According to Robert J.
yoga: 350–450 CE).
yoga: Werner wrote that there were
yoga: It included mantras, breath control, and body manipulation (including its nadis and chakras.
yoga: It includes a discussion of yogic ethics, dhyana (meditation) and samadhi, noting that debate and philosophy are also forms of yoga.
yoga: The practice of pranayama (focusing on the breath) is mentioned in hymn 1.5.23 of the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, and pratyahara (withdrawal of the senses) is mentioned in hymn 8.15 of the Chandogya Upanishad.
yoga: And such evidence as is available in the Vedas themselves is scanty and indirect.
yoga: At the height of the Gupta period (fourth to fifth centuries CE), a northern Mahayana movement known as Yogācāra began to be systematized with the writings of Buddhist scholars Asanga and Vasubandhu.
yoga: This model is mainly supported by Hindu scholars.
yoga: Previously, the Roman Catholic Church, and some other Christian organizations have expressed concerns and disapproval with respect to some eastern and New Age practices that include yoga and meditation.
yoga: Vivekananda introduced the Yoga Sutras to the West, and they became prominent after the 20th-century success of hatha yoga.
yoga: These tantra texts were the main source of Buddhist knowledge imported into Tibet, and were later translated into Chinese and other Asian languages.
yoga: Systematic yoga concepts begin to emerge in texts dating to c.
yoga: The Bhagavata Purana elucidates a form of yoga known as viraha (separation) bhakti, which emphasizes concentration on Krishna.
yoga: Iyengar created Iyengar Yoga and systematised asanas in his 1966 book, Light on Yoga; Indra Devi taught yoga to Hollywood actors; and Krishnamacharya's son, T.
yoga: While yoga is often conflated with the "classical yoga" of Patanjali's Yoga Sutras, Karen O'Brien-Kop notes that "classical yoga" is informed by, and includes, Buddhist yoga.
yoga: Yoga is viewed as a process of interiorization, or ascent of consciousness.
yoga: O Yogi, Nanak tells nothing but the truth.
yoga: Muhammad Ghawth, a 16th-century Shattari Sufi and translator of yoga text, was criticized for his interest in yoga and persecuted for his Sufi beliefs.
yoga: The Middle Ages saw the development of a number of yoga satellite traditions.
yoga: This has drawn charges of cultural appropriation from various Hindu groups; scholars remain skeptical.
yoga: Larson noted a number of parallels in ancient samkhya, yoga and Abhidharma Buddhism, particularly from the second century BCE to the first century AD.
yoga: The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali, the classical text on Hindu yoga, samkhya-based but influenced by Buddhism, dates to the early centuries of the Common Era.
yoga: Early Buddhist texts describe yogic and meditative practices, some of which the Buddha borrowed from the śramaṇa tradition.
yoga: Yoga Vasistha is an influential Advaita text which uses short stories and anecdotes to illustrate its ideas.
yoga: Esoteric views at the end of the 19th century encouraged the reception of Vedanta and yoga, with their correspondence between the spiritual and the physical.
yoga: The Buddha used a posture in which pressure is put on the perineum with the heel, similar to modern postures used to evoke Kundalini.
yoga: Haribhadra and Hemacandra note the five major vows of ascetics and 12 minor vows of laity in yoga.
yoga: In the context of the Yoga Sutras, the root yuj samādhau (to concentrate) is considered the correct etymology by traditional commentators.
yoga: Swami Vivekananda, the first Hindu teacher to advocate and disseminate elements of yoga to a Western audience, toured Europe and the United States in the 1890s.
yoga: According to Samuel, Tantra is a contested concept.
yoga: Yoga was, however, not accepted by mainstream Sunni and Shia Islam.
yoga: 'yoke'  or 'union') is a group of physical, mental, and spiritual practices or disciplines that originated with its own philosophy in ancient India, aimed at controlling body and mind to attain liberation (moksha), as practiced in the Hindu, Jain, and Buddhist traditions.
yoga: The first references to hatha yoga are in eighth-century Buddhist works.
yoga: Yoga philosophy came to be regarded as a distinct orthodox school (darsanas) of Hinduism in the second half of the first millennium CE.
yoga: Key works of the era include the Yoga Sūtras of Patañjali, the Yoga-Yājñavalkya, the Yogācārabhūmi-Śāstra, and the Visuddhimagga.
yoga: This is equivalent to pratyahara (withdrawal of the senses).
yoga: Dharana ("Concentration"): Fixing the attention on a single object.
yoga: Many later Indian scholars studied them and published their commentaries, such as the Vyasa Bhashya (c.
yoga: It discusses eight yoga asanas (Swastika, Gomukha, Padma, Vira, Simha, Bhadra, Mukta and Mayura), a number of breathing exercises for body cleansing, and meditation.
yoga: According to Flood, "[T]he actual term yoga first appears in the Katha Upanishad, dated to the fifth to first centuries BCE.
yoga: Another text which teaches yoga from an Advaita point of view is the Yoga Yajnavalkya.
yoga: 800–700 BCE) describes the five vital energies (prana), and concepts of later yoga traditions (such as blood vessels and an internal sound) are also described in this upanishad.
yoga: Terms such as vichara (subtle reflection) and viveka (discrimination) similar to Patanjali's terminology are used, but not described.
yoga: Pratyahara ("Abstraction"): Withdrawal of the sense organs from external objects.
yoga: Patanjali's Yoga Sutras are a synthesis of the three traditions.
yoga: The spiritual goal of haṭha yoga was largely replaced by the goals of physical fitness and relaxation, and many of its more esoteric components were reduced or removed.
yoga: Later developments in Buddhist traditions led to innovations in yoga practice.
yoga: Moksha (liberation) results from the isolation (kaivalya) of puruṣa from prakirti, and is achieved through meditation, stilling one's thought waves (citta vritti) and resting in pure awareness of puruṣa.
yoga: James Mallinson disagrees with the inclusion of supernatural accomplishments, and suggests that such fringe practices are far removed from mainstream Yoga's goal as meditation-driven means to liberation in Indian religions.
yoga: According to White,
yoga: Several of his students founded schools of yoga.
yoga: as the union of the lower self and higher Self.
yoga: In accordance with Pāṇini, Vyasa (who wrote the first commentary on the Yoga Sutras) says that yoga means samadhi (concentration).
yoga: The Middle Ages saw the development of satellite yoga traditions, and the emergence of hatha yoga.
yoga: Jain spirituality is based on a strict code of nonviolence, or ahimsa (which includes vegetarianism), almsgiving (dāna), faith in the three jewels, austerities (tapas) such as fasting, and yoga.
yoga: Yama (The five abstentions): Ahimsa (Non-violence, non-harming other living beings), Satya (truthfulness, non-falsehood), Asteya (non-stealing), Brahmacharya (celibacy, fidelity to one's partner), and Aparigraha (non-avarice, non-possessiveness).
yoga: Mallinson and Singleton write that the study of Yogācāra Buddhism is essential to understand yoga's early history, and its teachings influenced the Pātañjalayogaśāstra.
yoga: Werner writes, "The Buddha was the founder of his [Yoga] system, even though, admittedly, he made use of some of the experiences he had previously gained under various Yoga teachers of his time." He notes:
yoga: The Jaiminiya Upanishad Brahmana (probably before the 6th c.
yoga: A technique for entering into other bodies, generating multiple bodies, and the attainment of other supernatural accomplishments.
yoga: Examples of this are found in Hinduism Nyaya and Vaisesika school texts as well as Buddhism Mādhyamaka texts, but in different ways.
yoga: Yoga and samkhya have some differences; yoga accepted the concept of a personal god, and Samkhya was a rational, non-theistic system of Hindu philosophy.
yoga: The Sarma traditions also include Kriya, Upa (called "Charya"), and yoga, with anuttara yoga replacing mahayoga and atiyoga.
yoga: Yoga (UK: , US: ; Sanskrit: योग 'yoga' [joːɡɐ] ; lit.
yoga: However, the traditions may be connected:
yoga: This is rejected by more recent scholarship; for example, Geoffrey Samuel, Andrea R.
yoga: The Yoga Yajnavalkya is a classical treatise on yoga, attributed to the Vedic sage Yajnavalkya, in the form of a dialogue between Yajnavalkya and the renowned philosopher Gargi Vachaknavi.
yoga: Thomas McEvilley favors a composite model in which a pre-Aryan yoga prototype existed in the pre-Vedic period and was refined during the Vedic period.
yoga: According to Georg Feuerstein, laya yoga (yoga of dissolution or merging) "makes meditative absorption (laya) its focus.
yoga: The South India and Sri Lankan-based Theravada school also developed manuals for yogic and meditative training, primarily the Vimuttimagga and the Visuddhimagga.
yoga: Jacobsen writes that yoga has five principal meanings:
yoga: Yoga disputes Advaita Vedanta's monism.
yoga: According to Iran's yoga association, the country had about 200 yoga centres in May 2014.
yoga: According to Gavin Flood, the Upanishads differ fundamentally from the Vedic ritual tradition and indicate non-Vedic influences.
yoga: Malaysia's top Islamic body imposed a legally-enforceable 2008 fatwa prohibiting Muslims from practicing yoga, saying that it had elements of Hinduism and its practice was haram as blasphemy.
yoga: Umasvati calls yoga the generator of karma, and essential to the path to liberation.
yoga: The practice also includes renaming poses in English (rather than using the original Sanskrit terms), and abandoning involved Hindu mantras as well as the philosophy of Yoga; Yoga is associated and reframed into Christianity.
yoga: Buswell & Lopez state that "in Buddhism, [yoga is] a generic term for soteriological training or contemplative practice, including tantric practice."
O'Brien-Kop further notes that "classical yoga" is not an independent category, but "was informed by the European colonialist project."
yoga: Initially denied an audience, he was later invited because he was sent by a "king curious of wisdom and philosophy".
yoga: In addition to his army, he brought Greek academics who wrote memoirs about its geography, people, and customs.
yoga: Hatha yoga texts began to emerge between the ninth and 11th centuries, originating in Tantra.
yoga: The five yamas (constraints) of the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali are similar to Jainism's five major vows, indicating cross-fertilization between these traditions.
yoga: The earliest description of "an outsider who does not belong to the Brahminic establishment" is found in the Keśin hymn 10.136, the Rigveda's youngest book, which was codified around 1000 BCE.
yoga: Yoga as exercise has developed into a worldwide, multi-billion-dollar business involving classes, teacher certification, clothing such as yoga pants, equipment including yoga mats, books, videos, and holidays.
yoga: Yoga has been a central practice in Jainism.
yoga: An early reference to meditation is made in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad (c.
yoga: According to Mikel Burley, the first use of the root of the word "yoga" is in hymn 5.81.1 of the Rigveda, a dedication to the rising Sun-god, where it has been interpreted as "yoke" or "control".
yoga: During the 16th century, the hatha yoga text Amritakunda was translated into Arabic and Persian.
yoga: The Sanskrit noun योग yoga is derived from the root yuj (युज्) "to attach, join, harness, yoke".
yoga: Classical yoga, ashtanga yoga, or rāja yoga is primarily the yoga outlined in the dualistic Yoga Sutras of Patanjali.
yoga: [T]his dichotomization is too simplistic, for continuities can undoubtedly be found between renunciation and vedic Brahmanism, while elements from non-Brahmanical, Sramana traditions also played an important part in the formation of the renunciate ideal.
yoga: A person who practices yoga, or follows the yoga philosophy with a high level of commitment, is called a yogi; a female yogi may also be known as a yogini.
yoga: David Gordon White notes that "'Yoga' has a wider range of meanings than nearly any other word in the entire Sanskrit lexicon."
In its broadest sense, yoga is a generic term for techniques aimed at controlling body and mind and attaining a soteriological goal as specified by a specific tradition:
yoga: Nyingma meditation is divided into stages, such as Kriya Yoga, Upa yoga, Yoga yana, mahā yoga, Anu yoga and atiyoga.
yoga: Asana: Literally means "seat", any seated position used for meditation.
yoga: In early Buddhism, yoga practices included:
yoga: Early Jain yoga seems to have been divided into several types, including meditation, abandonment of the body (kāyotsarga), contemplation, and reflection (bhāvanā).
yoga: Theosophists, including Helena Blavatsky, also influenced the Western public's view of yoga.
yoga: Although the Mahabharata contains no uniform yogic goal, the separation of self from matter and perception of Brahman everywhere are described as goals of yoga.
yoga: One of the earliest and most influential sub-traditions of Vedanta is Advaita Vedanta, which posits non-dualistic monism.
yoga: These are discussed in sources such as in Hinduism Vedic literature and its epic Mahābhārata, the Jain Praśamaratiprakarana, and Buddhist Nikaya texts.
yoga: Yogācāra Buddhism provided a systematic framework for practices which lead a bodhisattva towards awakening and full Buddhahood.
yoga: Pattabhi Jois created ashtanga vinyasa yoga, which led to Power Yoga; B.
yoga: But it is only with Buddhism itself as expounded in the Pali Canon that we can speak about a systematic and comprehensive or even integral school of Yoga practice, which is thus the first and oldest to have been preserved for us in its entirety.
yoga: Since Jain sources are later than Buddhist ones, however, it is difficult to distinguish between the early Jain school and elements derived from other schools.
yoga: Buddhist yoga encompasses a variety of methods which aim to develop the 37 aids to awakening.
yoga: Mahayana meditation teachings may be seen in the Yogācārabhūmi-Śāstra, compiled c.
yoga: Much of the yoga in the Western world is a modern syncretised form consisting largely of asanas, derived from hatha yoga and western physical culture; this differs from traditional yoga, which focuses on meditation and release from worldly attachments.
yoga: One of Alexander's companions was Onesicritus (quoted in Book 15, Sections 63–65 by Strabo in his Geography), who describes yogis.
yoga: Malaysia's prime minister clarified that yoga as exercise is permissible, but the chanting of religious mantras is not.
yoga: Its texts began to be compiled during the seventh century CE, and Tibetan translations were completed the following century.
yoga: A classic definition of yoga in Patanjali's Yoga Sutras 1.2 and 1.3, defines yoga as "the stilling of the movements of the mind," and recognises Purusha, the witness-consciousness, as different from Prakriti, mind and matter.
yoga: Yoga as exercise, the postural yoga of the Western world, is a physical activity consisting of asanas, often connected by smooth transitions, sometimes accompanied by breathing exercises and usually ending with a period of relaxation or meditation.
yoga: It is often known simply as "yoga", despite older traditions in which asanas played little or no part; asanas were not central to any tradition.
yoga: Yoga texts such as the Hatha Yoga Pradipika, the Yoga Kundalini and the Yoga Tattva Upanishads have borrowed from (or frequently refer to) the Yoga Yajnavalkya.
yoga: Tantric yoga developed complex visualizations, which included meditation on the body as a microcosm of the cosmos.
yoga: It emphasizes jñāna yoga (yoga of knowledge), which aims at realizing the identity of one's atman (individual consciousness) with Brahman (the Absolute consciousness).
yoga: BCE) wrote that the term yoga can be derived from either of two roots: yujir yoga (to yoke) or yuj samādhau ("to concentrate").
yoga: Mark Singleton does not subscribe to De Michelis's framework, instead considering "modern yoga" to be a descriptive name for "yoga in the modern age".
yoga: In 1925, Paramahansa Yogananda came from India to the United States and started the Kriya Yoga school in Los Angeles, becoming one of the first Indian Yoga teachers to settle in America.
yoga: Tantric Buddhism developed and adopted tantric methods which are the basis of the Tibetan Buddhist yoga systems, including deity yoga, guru yoga, the six yogas of Naropa, Kalacakra, Mahamudra and Dzogchen.
yoga: A meditative means of discovering dysfunctional perception and cognition, as well as overcoming it to release any suffering, find inner peace, and salvation.
yoga: According to Charles Lanman, these principles are significant in the history of yoga's spiritual side and may reflect the roots of "undisturbed calmness" and "mindfulness through balance" in the later works of Patanjali and Buddhaghosa.
yoga: Yoga as exercises (compaired to no exercises) can improve function and pain in chronic low back pain after three months; there is no evidence that yoga is better or worse than any other back-pain exercises.
yoga: Malaysian Muslims who had been practicing yoga for years called the decision "insulting." Sisters in Islam, a Malaysian women's-rights group, expressed disappointment and said that yoga was a form of exercise.
yoga: Techniques for controlling breath and vital energies are mentioned in the Atharvaveda and in the Brahmanas (the second layer of the Vedas, composed c.
yoga: 900 BCE), one of the Principal Upanishads.
yoga: 1000–800 BCE).
yoga: The Vaiśeṣika Sūtra of the Vaisheshika school of Hinduism, composed between the sixth and second centuries BCE, discusses yoga.
yoga: It is His grace which brings about the union.
yoga: Larson says that the Yoga Sutras pursue an altered state of awareness from Abhidharma Buddhism's nirodhasamadhi; unlike Buddhism's "no self or soul", however, yoga (like Samkhya) believes that each individual has a self.
yoga: It developed as various traditions in the eastern Ganges basin and drew from a common body of practices, including Vedic elements.
yoga: In 1925, Yogananda started a Kriya Yoga centre in Los Angeles, becoming one of the first yoga teachers in the United States.
yoga: Compositions by Guru Nanak (the founder of Sikhism) describe dialogues he had with Jogis, a Hindu community which practiced yoga.
yoga: Yoga and other aspects of Indian philosophy came to the attention of the educated Western public during the mid-19th century, and N.
yoga: The origin of the 12-chapter text has been traced to the second century BCE and the fourth century CE.
yoga: There is no mention of the tongue inserted into the nasopharynx, as in khecarī mudrā.
yoga: 325–425 CE); some scholars believe that it included the sutras and Patanjali's own commentary.
yoga: It defines levels of existence by their proximity to one's innermost being.
yoga: Hatha yoga blends elements of Patanjali's Yoga Sutras with posture and breathing exercises.
yoga: One-quarter were in the capital, Tehran, where groups could be seen practising in parks; conservatives were opposed.
yoga: Nirodhayoga emphasizes progressive withdrawal from empirical consciousness, including thoughts and sensations, until purusha (self) is realized.
yoga: The earliest yoga-practices may have come from the Jain tradition at ca.
yoga: Only through the reduction of karmic influences and the exhaustion of collected karma can one become purified and released.
yoga: Although Al-Biruni's translation preserved many core themes of Patañjali's yoga philosophy, some sutras and commentaries were restated for consistency with monotheistic Islamic theology.
yoga: Rāja yoga (yoga of kings) originally denoted the ultimate goal of yoga; samadhi, but was popularised by Vivekananda as a common name for ashtanga yoga, the eight limbs attain samadhi as described in the Yoga Sutras.
yoga: Alexander Wynne agrees that formless, elemental meditation might have originated in the Upanishadic tradition.
yoga: Minority Islamic sects such as the mystic Sufi movement, particularly in South Asia, adopted Indian yoga postures and breath control.
yoga: Other schools founded during the 20th century include Bikram Choudhury's Bikram Yoga and Swami Sivananda of Rishikesh's Sivananda yoga.
yoga: A path to omniscience and enlightened consciousness enabling one to comprehend the impermanent (illusive, delusive) and permanent (true, transcendent) reality.
yoga: In addition to discussions in the Principal Upanishads, the twenty Yoga Upanishads and related texts (such as Yoga Vasistha, composed between the sixth and 14th centuries CE) discuss yoga methods.
yoga: The Pāli Canon contains three passages in which the Buddha describes pressing the tongue against the palate to control hunger or the mind, depending on the passage.
yoga: Two mental qualities are said to be indispensable for yoga practice in Buddhism: samatha (calm, stability) and vipassanā (insight, clear seeing).
yoga: It marks the development of asanas into the full-body postures in current popular use and, with its modern variations, is the style presently associated with the word "yoga".
yoga: The twentieth-century scholars Karel Werner, Thomas McEvilley, and Mircea Eliade believed that the central figure of the Pashupati seal is seated in the Mulabandhasana posture, and the roots of yoga are in the Indus Valley Civilisation.
yoga: BCE Taittiriya Upanishad defines yoga as the mastery of body and senses.
yoga: Its epistemology (pramana) and metaphysics are similar to the Sāṅkhya school.
yoga: The reception of yoga and Vedanta entwined with the (primarily neoplatonic) currents of religious and philosophical reform and transformation during the 19th and early 20th centuries.
yoga: The Rigveda's Nasadiya Sukta suggests an early Brahmanic contemplative tradition.
yoga: Elements of Tantric rituals were adopted by, and influenced, state functions in medieval Buddhist and Hindu kingdoms in East and Southeast Asia.
yoga: George Samuel wrote that tantra is a contested term, but may be considered a school whose practices appeared in nearly-complete form in Buddhist and Hindu texts by about the 10th century CE.
yoga: The Nyingma school practices yantra yoga, a discipline which includes breath work, meditation and other exercises.
yoga: Vajrayana Buddhism, founded by the Indian Mahasiddhas, has a series of asanas and pranayamas (such as tummo) which resemble hatha yoga.
yoga: Advaita Vedanta also encourages the use of Patanjali's yoga practices and the Upanishads for those seeking the supreme good and ultimate freedom.
yoga: The Bhagavad Gita (Song of the Lord), part of the Mahabharata, contains extensive teachings about yoga.
yoga: The earliest yoga-practices may have appeared in the Jain tradition at ca.
yoga: Samadhi ("Liberation"): merging consciousness with the object of meditation.
yoga: At its most neutral, yoga is therefore simply a technique, or set of techniques, including what is usually termed 'meditation', for attaining whatever soteriological or soteriological-cum-physiological transformation a particular tradition specifies."
Knut A.
yoga: Although they share many principles, concepts, and the belief in Self, they differ in degree, style, and methods; yoga accepts three means to obtain knowledge, and Advaita Vedanta accepts.
yoga: Shaiva and Vaishnava bhakti traditions integrated aspects of the Yoga Sutras (such as meditative exercises) with devotion.
yoga: The origins of classical yoga are unclear, although early discussions of the term appear in the Upanishads.
yoga: Most of the other contemporary yoga systems alluded to in the Upanishads and some Buddhist texts have been lost.
yoga: Buddhist texts use a number of terms for spiritual praxis in addition to yoga, such as bhāvanā ("development") and jhāna/dhyāna.
yoga: From Samkhya, they adopt the "reflective discernment" (adhyavasaya) of prakrti and purusa (dualism), their metaphysical rationalism, and their three epistemological methods of obtaining knowledge.
yoga: The raising and expansion of consciousness from oneself to being coextensive with everyone and everything.
yoga: 4th century.
yoga: Suttas which discuss yogic practice include the Satipatthana Sutta (the four foundations of mindfulness sutta) and the Anapanasati Sutta (the mindfulness of breathing sutta).
yoga: On 1 December 2016, yoga was listed by UNESCO as an intangible cultural heritage.
yoga: In his Niyamasara, Kundakunda describes yoga bhakti—devotion to the path to liberation—as the highest form of devotion.
yoga: The most influential thinker of this school is Adi Shankara (8th century), who wrote commentaries and other works on jñāna yoga.
yoga: The Vedas, the only texts preserved from the early Vedic period and codified between c.
yoga: The hymns in book two of the Shvetashvatara Upanishad (another late-first-millennium BCE text) describe a procedure in which the body is upright, the breath is restrained and the mind is meditatively focused, preferably in a cave or a place that is simple and quiet.
yoga: Paul published his Treatise on Yoga Philosophy in 1851.
yoga: Good deeds help one merge into Divination.
yoga: The Buddhist tradition of Abhidharma spawned treatises which expanded teachings on Buddhist theory and yoga techniques which influenced Mahayana and Theravada Buddhism.
yoga: The Brahma Sutras, the foundation text of the Vedanta school of Hinduism, also discusses yoga.
yoga: Mircea Eliade brought a new element to yoga, emphasizing tantric yoga in his Yoga: Immortality and Freedom.
yoga: Its use suggests that the word tantra in the Rigveda means "technique".
yoga: Kundalini yoga aims to awaken bodily and cosmic energy with breath and body techniques, uniting them with universal consciousness.
yoga: The earliest extant systematic account of yoga and a bridge from the earlier Vedic uses of the term is found in the Hindu Katha Upanisad (Ku), a scripture dating from about the third century BCE ...
yoga: The ancient, cross-legged lotus position and Siddhasana are widely recognised symbols of yoga.
yoga: As the name suggests, the metaphysical basis of the text is samkhya; the school is mentioned in Kauṭilya's Arthashastra as one of the three categories of anviksikis (philosophies), with yoga and Cārvāka.
yoga: They both hold that the free conscience is transcendent, liberated and self-aware.
yoga: [I]t describes the hierarchy of mind-body constituents—the senses, mind, intellect, etc.—that comprise the foundational categories of Sāmkhya philosophy, whose metaphysical system grounds the yoga of the Yogasutras, Bhagavad Gita, and other texts and schools (Ku3.10–11; 6.7–8).
yoga: The United Nations General Assembly established 21 June as the International Day of Yoga, and it has been celebrated annually around the world since 2015.
yoga: According to White, the last principle relates to legendary goals of yoga practice; it differs from yoga's practical goals in South Asian thought and practice since the beginning of the Common Era in Hindu, Buddhist, and Jain philosophical schools.
yoga: Like yoga and Sankhya, Jainism believes in a number of individual selves bound by their individual karma.
yoga: According to Larson, in the context of the Yoga Sutras, yoga has two meanings.
yoga: Jain, and Wendy Doniger describe the identification as speculative; the meaning of the figure will remain unknown until Harappan script is deciphered, and the roots of yoga cannot be linked to the IVC.
yoga: These are, states White, described in Tantric literature of Hinduism and Buddhism, as well as the Buddhist Sāmaññaphalasutta.
yoga: Al-Biruni's version of the Yoga Sutras reached Persia and the Arabian Peninsula by about 1050.
yoga: The conservative Theravada school developed new ideas on meditation and yoga in its later works, the most influential of which is the Visuddhimagga.
yoga: Vedanta is a varied tradition, with a number of sub-schools and philosophical views.
yoga: Guru Nanak rejected the austerities, rites and rituals associated with hatha yoga, advocating sahaja yoga or nama yoga instead.
yoga: Some scholars divide the Gita into three sections; the first six chapters (280 shlokas) deal with karma yoga, the middle six (209 shlokas) with bhakti yoga, and the last six (211 shlokas) with jnana yoga.
yoga: to ascetics, namely the Munis or Keśins and the Vratyas." Werner wrote in 1977 that the Rigveda does not describe yoga, and there is little evidence of practices.
yoga: Some Christians integrate physical aspects of yoga, stripped from the spiritual roots of Hinduism, and other aspects of Eastern spirituality with prayer, meditation and Jesus-centric affirmations.
yoga: According to the Guru Granth Sahib,
yoga: Yoga as exercise is a 20th-century blend of Western physical culture and women's harmonial gymnastics with haṭha yoga, pioneered by Shri Yogendra and Swami Kuvalayananda.
yoga: A unique feature of classical Buddhism is its understanding of all phenomena (dhammas) as being empty of a self.
yoga: Estimated as completed in its surviving form between 450 BCE and 200 CE, its sutras assert that yoga is a means to attain "subtlety of body".
yoga: The Buddhist text Hevajra Tantra and caryāgiti introduced hierarchies of chakras.
yoga: It and other aspects of Indian philosophy came to the attention of the educated Western public during the mid-19th century.
yoga: The ascetic traditions of the eastern Ganges plain are thought to be drawn from a common body of practices and philosophies, with proto-samkhya concepts of purusha and prakriti as a common denominator.
yoga: The upanishad is the earliest literary work which highlights the fundamentals of yoga.
yoga: Onesicritus also mentions attempts by his colleague, Calanus, to meet them.
yoga: According to Flood, "The Samhitas [the mantras of the Vedas] contain some references ...
yoga: Hinduism's influence on Jain yoga may be seen in Haribhadra's Yogadṛṣṭisamuccaya, which outlines an eightfold yoga influenced by Patanjali's eightfold yoga.
yoga: The 2003 document was published as a 90-page handbook detailing the Vatican's position.
yoga: The effect of yoga as exercise on physical and mental health has been a subject of study, with evidence that regular practice is beneficial for low back pain and stress..
yoga: Nouf Marwaai brought yoga to Saudi Arabia in 2017, contributing to making it legal and recognized despite being allegedly threatened by her community which asserts yoga as "un-Islamic".
yoga: With the introduction of tantra traditions and philosophy, the conception of the "transcendent" attained by yogic practice shifted from the mind to the body.
yoga: It focuses on the study of the Upanishads and the Brahma Sutras (one of its early texts), about gaining spiritual knowledge of Brahman: the unchanging, absolute reality.
yoga: In Advaita Vedanta, jñāna is attained from scripture, one's guru, and through a process of listening to (and meditating on) teachings.
yoga: In medieval Hinduism, the Bhakti movement advocated the concept of a personal god or Supreme Personality.
yoga: Dhyana ("Meditation"): Intense contemplation of the nature of the object of meditation.
yoga: The sutra asserts that yoga leads to an absence of sukha (happiness) and dukkha (suffering), describing meditative steps in the journey towards spiritual liberation.
yoga: Speculations about yoga are documented in the early Upanishads of the first half of the first millennium BCE, with expositions also appearing in Jain and Buddhist texts c.
yoga: Modern forms of yoga are practiced worldwide, often mainly for exercise accompanied by other elements like relaxation.
yoga: Yoga-like practices are mentioned in the Rigveda and some early Upanishads, but systematic yoga concepts emerged during the fifth and sixth centuries BCE in ancient India's ascetic and Śramaṇa movements, including Jainism and Buddhism.
yoga: Pāṇini (4th c.
yoga: The Nyaya Sutras—the foundation text of the Nyaya school, estimated as composed between the sixth century BCE and the second century CE—discusses yoga in sutras 4.2.38–50.
yoga: Illustration of this principle is found in Hindu texts such as the Bhagavad Gita and Yogasutras, in several Buddhist Mahāyāna works, as well as Jain texts.
yoga: However, elements of all three are found throughout the work.
yoga: Unlike Sāṅkhya, which takes a non-theistic approach, the yoga school of Hinduism accepts a "personal, yet essentially inactive, deity" or "personal god" (Ishvara).
yoga: Chinese Buddhism developed the Chan practice of Koan introspection and Hua Tou.
yoga: The first known appearance of the word "yoga" in the modern sense is in the Katha Upanishad (probably composed between the fifth and third centuries BCE), where it is defined as steady control of the senses which – with cessation of mental activity – leads to a supreme state.
yoga: You must discipline your mind.
yoga: Pranayama ("Breath exercises"): Prāna, breath, "āyāma", to "stretch, extend, restrain, stop".
yoga: In 1989 and 2003, the Vatican issued two documents: Aspects of Christian meditation and "A Christian reflection on the New Age," that were mostly critical of eastern and New Age practices.
yoga: Zydenbos, Jainism is a system of yogic thinking which became a religion.
yoga: Many standing poses used in gymnastics were incorporated into yoga by Krishnamacharya in Mysore between the 1930s and the 1950s.
yoga: One of the best-known early expressions of Brahminical yoga thought is the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali (early centuries CE, the original name of which may have been the Pātañjalayogaśāstra-sāṃkhya-pravacana (c.
yoga: The Chandogya Upanishad (c.
yoga: The Mahabharata defines the purpose of yoga as uniting the individual ātman with the universal Brahman pervading all things.
yoga: Patanjali defines the word "yoga" in his second sutra, and his terse definition hinges on the meaning of three Sanskrit terms.
yoga: The third concept which the Yoga Sutras synthesize is the ascetic tradition of meditation and introspection.
yoga: Regarding Buddhist yoga, James Buswell in his Encyclopedia of Buddhism treats yoga in his entry on meditation, stating that the aim of meditation is to attain samadhi, which serves as the foundation for vipasyana, "discerning the real from the unreal," liberating insight into true reality.
yoga: The Yoga Sutras are also influenced by the Sramana traditions of Buddhism and Jainism, and may be a further Brahmanical attempt to adopt yoga from those traditions.
yoga: It was introduced by gurus from India after the success of Swami Vivekananda's adaptation of yoga without asanas in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
yoga: Teachings about chakras and Kundalini became central to later forms of Indian yoga.
yoga: The nondual state is characterized by the absence of individuality; it can be described as eternal peace, pure love, Self-realization, or liberation."
Patanjali defined an eight-limbed yoga (aṣṭāṅgayoga) in Yoga Sutras 2.29:
yoga: Qualities such as discrimination, renunciation, tranquility, temperance, dispassion, endurance, faith, attention, and a longing for knowledge and freedom are also desirable.
yoga: The number of asanas used in yoga has increased from 84 in 1830 (as illustrated in Joga Pradipika) to about 200 in Light on Yoga and over 900 performed by Dharma Mittra by 1984.
yoga: Anussati (contemplations, recollections)
These meditations were seen as supported by the other elements of the Noble Eightfold Path, such as ethics, right exertion, sense restraint and right view.
yoga: 1200 and 900 BCE, contain references to yogic practices primarily related to ascetics outside, or on the fringes of Brahmanism.
yoga: Karma yoga: yoga of action
Bhakti yoga: yoga of devotion
Jnana yoga: yoga of knowledge
The Gita consists of 18 chapters and 700 shlokas (verses); each chapter is named for a different form of yoga.
yoga: "Yoga (union) implies duality (as in joining of two things or principles); the result of yoga is the nondual state ...
yoga: Edwin Bryant wrote that authors who support Indigenous Aryanism also tend to support the linear model.
yoga: A common teaching method awakens kundalini in the lowest chakra and guides it through the central channel to unite with the absolute consciousness in the highest chakra, at the top of the head.
yoga: Vipassanā is insight or penetrative understanding into the true nature of phenomena, also defined as "seeing things as they truly are" (yathābhūtaṃ darśanam).
yoga: According to Johannes Bronkhorst, the Vaiśeṣika Sūtra describes yoga as "a state where the mind resides only in the Self and therefore not in the senses".
yoga: Teaching seven stages of yoga practice, it was a major reference for medieval Advaita Vedanta yoga scholars and one of the most popular texts on Hindu yoga before the 12th century.
yoga: According to Jones and Ryan, "The word yoga is derived from the root yuj, "to yoke", probably because the early practice concentrated on restraining or "yoking in" the senses.
yoga: Before 1900, hatha yoga had few standing poses; the Sun Salutation (Surya Namaskar) was pioneered by Bhawanrao Shrinivasrao Pant Pratinidhi, the Rajah of Aundh, during the 1920s.
yoga: Hatha Yoga Pradipika by Svātmārāma (15th century)
Shiva Samhita, author unknown (1500 or late 17th century)
Gheranda Samhita by Gheranda (late 17th century)
Some scholars include Gorakshanath's 11th-century Goraksha Samhita on the list.
yoga: Jain meditation is a yoga system which predated the Buddhist school.
yoga: According to Bardakoğlu, reiki and yoga could be a form of proselytizing at the expense of Islam.
yoga: Yoga in Advaita is a "meditative exercise of withdrawal from the particular and identification with the universal, leading to contemplation of oneself as the most universal, namely, Consciousness".
yoga: individuals who were active outside the trend of Vedic mythological creativity and the Brahminic religious orthodoxy and therefore little evidence of their existence, practices and achievements has survived.
yoga: In May 2009, Turkish Directorate of Religious Affairs head Ali Bardakoğlu discounted personal-development techniques such as reiki and yoga as commercial ventures which could lead to extremism.
yoga: According to Tattvarthasutra, a second-to-fifth century Jain text, yoga is the sum of all activities of mind, speech and body.
yoga: The earliest known discussions of yoga in Buddhist literature, as understood in a modern context, are from the later Buddhist Yogācāra and Theravada schools.
yoga: the four dhyānas (four meditations or mental absorptions),
the four satipatthanas (foundations or establishments of mindfulness),
anapanasati (mindfulness of breath),
the four immaterial dwellings (supranormal states of mind),
the brahmavihārās (divine abodes).
yoga: Yoga is a significant practice in Tantric Buddhism.
yoga: Tantra yoga practices include postures and breathing exercises.
yoga: According to the synthesis model, yoga is a synthesis of indigenous, non-Vedic practices with Vedic elements.
yoga: There are two broad theories explaining the origins of yoga.
yoga: By the turn of the first millennium, hatha yoga emerged from tantra.
yoga: A 2015 systematic review noted that yoga may be effective in alleviating symptoms of prenatal depression.
yoga: Samatha is a stable, relaxed mind, associated with samadhi (mental unification, focus) and dhyana (a state of meditative absorption).
yoga: Its ultimate goal is bodhi (awakening) or nirvana (cessation), traditionally seen as the permanent end of suffering (dukkha) and rebirth.
yoga: Yoga may have pre-Vedic origins, but it is first attested in the early first millennium BCE.
yoga: Samkhya and yoga are conflated, and some verses describe them as identical.
yoga: Early Buddhist sources such as the Majjhima Nikāya mention meditation; the Aṅguttara Nikāya describes jhāyins (meditators) who resemble early Hindu descriptions of muni, the Kesin and meditating ascetics, but the meditation practices are not called "yoga" in these texts.
yoga: The verses of the Yoga Sutras are terse.
yoga: Classical yoga incorporates epistemology, metaphysics, ethical practices, systematic exercises and self-development for body, mind and spirit.
yoga: Desikachar, founded the Krishnamacharya Yoga Mandalam in Chennai.
yoga: The Katha Upanishad integrates the monism of the early Upanishads with concepts of samkhya and yoga.
yoga: According to Mallinson and Singleton, these traditions were the first to use mind-body techniques (known as Dhyāna and tapas) but later described as yoga, to strive for liberation from the round of rebirth.
yoga: BCE) teaches breath control and repetition of a mantra.
yoga: 500–200 BCE, such as the early Buddhist texts, the middle Upanishads, and the Mahabharata's Bhagavad Gita and Shanti Parva.
yoga: Its teachings are found in the encyclopedic Yogācārabhūmi-Śāstra (Treatise for Yoga Practitioners), which was also translated into Tibetan and Chinese and influenced East Asian and Tibetan Buddhist traditions.
yoga: The movement, begun by the Alvars of South India during the 6th to 9th centuries, became influential throughout India by the 12th to 15th centuries.
yoga: The linear model holds that yoga has Vedic origins (as reflected in Vedic texts), and influenced Buddhism.
yoga: Jain yoga aims at the liberation and purification of the self from the forces of karma, which binds the self to the cycle of reincarnation.
yoga: In modern usage, the term "hatha yoga" denotes gentle exercise, often for women.
yoga: The devotee must meditate on the Word Divine.
yoga: This model is favoured in Western scholarship.
yoga: Patanjali's system is sometimes called "Seshvara Samkhya", distinguishing it from Kapila's Nirivara Samkhya.
yoga: Patanjali's Yoga Sutras are considered the first compilation of yoga philosophy.
yoga: Larson notes that in the Vyāsa Bhāsy the term "samadhi" refers to "all levels of mental life" (sārvabhauma), that is, "all possible states of awareness, whether ordinary or extraordinary".
yoga: Taimni translates it as "Yoga is the inhibition (nirodhaḥ) of the modifications (vṛtti) of the mind (citta)".
yoga: He understands, he also sees.
yoga: These fatwas have been criticized by Darul Uloom Deoband, a Deobandi Islamic seminary in India.
yoga: Onesicritus says that the yogis were aloof and adopted "different postures – standing or sitting or lying naked – and motionless".
yoga: The Indonesian Ulema Council (MUI) imposed a 2009 fatwa banning yoga practices such as chanting or repeating mantras because those contained Hindu elements; yoga purely as exercise was permitted.
yoga: Yoga is a cognate of the English word "yoke," since both are derived from the same Indo-European root.
yoga: Similar fatwas banning yoga for its link to Hinduism were imposed by Grand Mufti Ali Gomaa in Egypt in 2004, and by Islamic clerics in Singapore earlier.
yoga: Tantric concepts influenced Hindu, Bon, Buddhist, and Jain traditions.
yoga: Later the name was also seen as a metaphor for "linking" or "yoking to" the divine."
Buswell and Lopez translate "yoga" as "'bond', 'restraint', and by extension 'spiritual discipline'." Flood refers to restraining the mind as yoking the mind.
yoga: Nevertheless the indirect evidence is strong enough not to allow any doubt about the existence of spiritually highly advanced wanderers.
yoga: Mokshadharma also describes an early practice of elemental meditation.
yoga: The chronology of these yoga-related early Buddhist texts, like the ancient Hindu texts, is unclear.
yoga: Mahayana also developed and adopted yoga methods such as the use of mantras and dharani, pure land practices aiming at rebirth in a pure land or buddhafield, and visualization.
yoga: Hatha yoga focuses on physical and mental strength-building exercises and postures described primarily in three Hindu texts:
yoga: Between 200 BCE and 500 CE, traditions of Hindu, Buddhist, and Jain philosophy were taking shape; teachings were collected as sutras, and a philosophical system of Patanjaliyogasastra began to emerge.
yoga: In Hindu scholasticism since the 12th century, yoga has been one of the six orthodox philosophical schools (darsanas): traditions which accept the Vedas.
yoga: 200 BCE – 500 CE), and systems of yoga began to emerge; a number of texts from these traditions discussed and compiled yoga methods and practices.
